ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11574	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 180 MPs attend today's session. I find that we have the quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Radomir Naumov, Stanko Kovacevic, Boris Karaičić, Dragan Todorovic, Dusan Golubovic, Juhas Atila, Višnja Nezic, Milena Milosevic, Zaharija Trnavcevic. Only in the morning did Petar Cvetkovic and Jakov Stamenkovic announce their absence. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-President, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have received a report from the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP in order to fill the parliamentary seat. You have also received a report from the Administrative Board, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the MP have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of National MP Dr Zivorad Rakovic, elected from the election list of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs, I would like to confirm the mandate of Parliamentarian Dr Zivorad Rakovic and congratulate him on the election. I would like to inform you that new parliamentary groups have been formed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia - New Serbia and the Democratic Opposition of Serbia - Movement for Democratic Serbia. The presidents of these newly-formed parliamentary groups are Mr. Marko Petrovic, president of the DOS-New Serbia parliamentary group, his deputy is Zoran Ćirkovic, and president of the DOS parliamentary group - Movement for Democratic Serbia, Prof. Dr. Predrag Bajcetic, and Deputy President Vojkan Tomic. You were presented the minutes of the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, held on 11, 12, 13, 14, 18, 19, 20, 21, 25, 26 and 27 June and 9, 10, 11, 12 and 16 July 2001. Any objections to the record? No, there isn't. I put to the vote the minutes of the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held as I read. For 168, there were no votes against and abstentions, 23, a total of 191 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, which was convened at the request of a group of 126 MPs, in accordance with Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 159 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for the call of the Eighth Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the eighth extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, the following agenda was established: 1. Proposals for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, MP Dragan Markovic, president of the parliamentary group of the Serbian Unity Party and MP Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, 2. Proposals for decisions on the termination of functions, the resolution and selection of judicial authorities, submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration and by the performer of the duties of the Republic Public Prosecutor, 3. Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the Organisation and Labour of the Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Administrative Committee, 4. Proposed by the Administrative Committee that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not apply immunity to MPs Dr Predrag Canovic and Professor Dr Branislav Ivkovic. Here you go. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11575	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to wish you successful work and ask for your understanding. In accordance with Article 160, I propose that we make a change to the agenda and that the second item of the agenda is actually proposed to the fourth item of the agenda, leaving the second item for the fourth point, given that the Justice Committee is still working and that our work will be more effective. Please understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11576	Please let us be clear on this proposal. So first consider the fourth item of the agenda, then the second point of the agenda and the third point of the agenda. Please let us be clear about this motion to amend the order, by voting. For 134 MPs, against 56, abstention one, were not voted by two, a total of 193. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal to amend the order of the items in the agenda: 1. Proposals for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, MP Dragan Markovic, president of the parliamentary group of the Serbian Unity Party and MP Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, 2. Proposed by the Administrative Committee that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not apply immunity to MPs Dr Predrag Canovic and Professor Dr Branislav Ivkovic, 3. Proposals for decisions on the termination of functions, the resolution and selection of judicial authorities, submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration and by the performer of the duties of the Republic Public Prosecutor, 4. Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the organisation and operation of the Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Administrative Committee. We're going to work on a set agenda like this. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - THE PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA For this point of the agenda, you have made proposals on amendments to the Decision on the election of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, MP Dragan Marković, president of the parliamentary group of the Serbian Unity Party and MP Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia. I suggest that these proposals be subject to a single search. Here you go, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11577	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want to use the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly and to go out here and comment on the agenda, but on the first item of the agenda, we could certainly discuss the agenda in general. Serbian citizens certainly expect to discuss issues of importance for Serbian citizens at an extraordinary session of the Republika Srpska Assembly, and in this sense there are different proposals here, and during the discussion ahead of this press session. It is clear that the conflict of two currents in the DOS is essentially about corruption, crime, and this imposes the idea of discussing the extraordinary session of the Republika Srpska Assembly on corruption and crime, not only for the past 11 months, but also for the last 11 years. It is also clear that the story of corruption and crime and important matters for an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has ended with the choice of holders of judicial functions and the issue of immunity to individual MPs in this assembly. It's more about the agenda and it's more about those who were in a hurry to put those things on the agenda for a regular session...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11578	Mr. Ivkovic, please, I remind you that this is not a topic within the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11579	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, you said...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11580	Please take care of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11581	That is exactly what I want to say, that during the first item of the agenda, you have said that the agenda of this extraordinary session is relaxed so that a regular session could normally take place, and I am left to ask you why, in addition to this proposal, under the first item of the agenda, there is no proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine the facts relating to the deprivation of the freedom of President Slobodan Milosevic, submitted on 8 May 2001; then, the draft law on the abolition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 28 June 2001, submitted on 28 June 2001, and another four or five initiatives, which the SPS did not take in this agenda. In particular, let's talk about how we have a situation where the decisions of the Republika Srpska Assembly, made twice about Kosovo and Metohija, are being violated by the leaders of these same parties who voted here for a registration call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11582	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, please let this extraordinary session and the regular session that begins in October of the month not begin in this way, and that, from the very first announcement of the Members of Parliament, we have a agenda and that we open a debate on something that is not on the agenda. So, I will repeat, this is the agenda item - a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone else answering for the word on this agenda? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11583	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs of the Serbian Radical Party will vote against all three proposals under the first item of the agenda. In the parliamentary practice of the civilized world for decades, it has been developing informally, but a firm rule that all the working bodies of the legislative authorities are forming strictly on a proportionate principle. Perhaps that was funny to some at a time when one MP group had 2/3 of MPs in the National Assembly. However, the parliamentary group fell apart and instead of one, we now have four. Now no member group has an absolute majority, and therefore it is not a meaningless relationship of power in the congregation’s working bodies. Since the principle that all parliamentary groups are proportionally represented in the parliamentary bodies is not respected at first, Serbian radicals have refused to participate in their formation at all. We're not asking now to change what you did at the beginning. We only warn, because of you present and for the public, that we were right when we insisted. Now for those of you who didn't care, you can think about what would have been better -- if at first that principle had been respected, so that it wouldn't come into this situation, or rather, that the principle had been broken, and yet we came to an unnatural situation. Of course, there is no legal obligation for congregation bodies to be formed on a proportionate basis. From a legal point of view, one who has an absolute majority can completely exclude the opposition from the working bodies, but to his political responsibility. So there's no legal sanctions, there's no legal responsibility anywhere, but there's one political responsibility that doesn't need to be underestimated. This is why the SRS MPs will not vote for any proposal, because in the beginning, the assembly working bodies are not being established as the positive parliamentary practice of the civilised world requires.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11584	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I'll put this proposal to the vote. For 166, against 20, abstention one, did not vote 16, a total of 203 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Having made the decision, we have accepted the proposal, are you agreeing that all adopted proposals for publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" as a legally-technically united act - a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please make this clear by voting. For 175, there was no, abstention one, no vote 27, a total of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal by majority vote. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - PROPOSALS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE COMMITTEE THAT THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA DO NOT APPLICATE IMMUNITY WITH THE PEOPLE'S JOBS DR. DR BRANSLAV IVKOVIĆ You have received suggestions that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should not apply immunity to MPs Dr Predrag Canovic and Professor Dr Branislav Ivkovic, who was submitted by the Administrative Board. I propose that proposals from the Administrative Committee should not be applied by the National Assembly to those Members of the Parliaments, and that the National Assembly should be made specific statements on each proposal. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 144, against 44, there were no abstentions, no vote was 14; 202 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. In accordance with Article 153 of the Treaty on the I am opening my Rules of Procedure a single search on the proposals of the Administrative Committee that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not apply immunity to MPs Dr Predrag Canovic and Professor Branislav Ivkovic. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Seselj has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11585	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that the material that we have today on this agenda is very shrub, unsustainablely scarce, there is no possibility that we can seriously discuss the specific reasons why the immunity of the two MPs and their delivery to the judicial branch of power is required. That's why my exposure to this matter will be purely principled. Why? Immunity is an old category, the immunity of MPs, which protects the legislative authority from the will of the executive and judicial authority. It comes from a time, even when the executive and judicial authority was depicted in one authority, when the monarch was, as head of state, at the head of the administrative authority, and was also the last judicial instance in the judicial system, because it depended on his personal will whether someone would be punished or not at the very end of the sentence. The legislative authority must also be protected in today’s day. The most operational authorities are concentrated in the authorities of the state administration, i.e. in the government, as their concentrated expression. And the government is able, and this is not only the case in our country but also in many other parliamentary systems, to impose its will on the judicial authority. We have a whole series of examples that this is really happening with us. We don't have an independent judiciary. Our judiciary is now in the worst condition possible since the time of the titoistic dictatorship. And when the judicial authority asks for the legislative body to hand someone over to her for mercy and mercy, she usually has some political reason. Because if the only reason here was the prosecution of perpetrators of criminal acts, there wouldn't be any problem. However, many members of the ruling parties on the wallpaper, rather than some almost insignificant things, would be found. The severity of criminal acts, which are respected, is not so much that they must be delivered to the judicial authority before the end of their term in the legislative body. And whoever ran for this term next time will be thinking about whether to run again, given what happened within the duration of their term of office, if there is indeed evidence that a crime has been committed. One thing is very problematic here -- the Socialists, while they had absolute power and power, along with New Democracy, have completely clouded our basic values regarding the institutions of parliamentary immunity. They kidnapped parliamentary immunity even on the basis of criminal prosecution, although the judge of offense is not a judge in the right sense of the word. He is not the authority of the judicial branch of the government, but the authority of the state administration and never, under any circumstances, should the MP be delivered to the court for violation. This is the ultimate humiliation of parliament, and this is what the Socialists have been doing to us at the time. If you remember, Zarko Jokanovic, the senior official of the New Democracy, scheduled a session of the assembly committee after midnight to take away the immunity of the MPs. The precedents that have taken place are very bad and these precedents can be defined as a expedient circumstance for the current congregation majority's alliance. But you assured us that you would be completely different, that you would not blindly follow one of the negative practices of the previous period. And this is something to show that you really don't blindly follow this parliamentary practice. In order to confiscate the MP's immunity, to be delivered by the legislative judicial branch of power, parliament must first convince itself that he has indeed committed some serious crime. In order for that to be done, it must also be criminal charges, even means of proof, and the Assembly committee to consider, that, in fact, even a little preliminary trial is carried out, so if all parliamentarians are to be made clear that they really need to deliver the MP to the judicial branch of power, then he should be delivered to a peaceful conscience. Based on a few sentences, here, I got the paper for Ivkovic, we didn't even get Canovic, did, didn't arrive, maybe came, maybe didn't, I didn't have it in my hands. We cannot conclude at all whether their prosecution is justified or whether it is a purely repressive measure of the executive branch of power, where they are manipulated by a judicial branch, where the judicial branch is actually instrumentalised for political purposes. Now, I've often spoken to socialists before from a congregation pay phone, publicly, even at government sessions -- you should always behave while you're in power the way you'd like some other authority to treat you when one day you're an opposition. Many of them thought there would never be opposition, and that's why I'm not in principle very sorry when one of them gets hurt this way, but this is not a matter of emotion, this is a matter of legal principles and political principles. Are we going to build a country where the same rules will apply equally to everyone, so tomorrow, when many of the current authorities become opposition, that they do not fear that someone will give them this kind of revenge and that they will be prosecuted for why, because there is no chance that a single fence is set there - that the MP can only be arrested if he finds himself in the execution of a crime for which more than five years of imprisonment can be pronounced. It is a limit when it is appropriate, or inappropriate, to conduct any criminal proceedings against a member of the legislative authority at all. Now, there is another possibility -- if parliament doesn't hand over its member to the judicial branch of power, if the crime doesn't go out of date. We will have elections, everyone agrees, even the greatest optimists, that will be at the latest in the fall of next year. None of these crimes will go out of date. Why step on the principle, if you can solve the problem in a more elegant way. If the principle of pure vengeance is to be trampled, then whoever resorts to it can expect the same fate tomorrow. You know, it is noticeable that neither Zarko Jokanovic, nor this Mile Ilic from Nis, who had scheduled the night sessions of the Administrative Committee for MPs, took away their immunity to deliver them for criminal prosecution, after which they no longer represent anything in public. They are thus, and Zarko Jokanovic, and Mile Ilic, his honor, his morale, sacrificed for most of the time. Don't let your conscience be burdened with this sort of thing without need. Of course, in the shadow of the anti-constitutional and illegal delivery of Slobodan Milosevic, on Vidovdan, The Hague Tribunal, this may seem small, but, in essence, this is not a small thing. This is a very big deal. As far as I'm concerned, I told you and saved my soul - no one can say that in time has been warned, and you can do, your voting machine, whatever you want, whatever you want; just remember those old folk songs: "Fire, burn, widower, till your tower comes to order." For some, such fate has already been realized, and some seem to have yet to be realized. Until they feel it on their skin, they're not ready to think seriously, to assess, to be correct, to make sure they don't get too strong while they're in power. Ossion government always causes negative consequences for the people, by opposition, but ultimately, most of all, it is sacred to those who have acted on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11586	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? He has the word Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11587	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have answered the floor above all because of those who are being raised by legalism, to take a closer look at the factual state of the legislative part of the system and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, within which the members of the Administrative Board have decided to propose this item of the agenda and the language formulation of proposing this item of the agenda. The basis of the work of the Administrative Board and the establishment of the proposal to you is Article 77(5). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which Decidently reads: "The National Assembly may decide to apply immunity to the People's MP and if it has not been called upon to do his job", which is, for example, quite logical when it comes to the president of the main opposition parliamentary party. So it's about further protection of the immunity and rights of the MP, and it's said, in a language way, that the National Assembly has the right to decide not to apply. What's the situation? This fellow MP of yours has not been called anywhere to be heard. Your fellow MP, since the action has been under way since 5 October, has already gone on a dozen occasions to various conversations and never called for immunity. First, because his conscience is still and pure. Therefore, your colleague, the MP, was not even invited to enter the investigation process, and immediately to say to the publicly respected judge who should be doing this investigative process, by order of Mr. Terzic, and otherwise I am the second to receive such a warrant, that I am prepared to go to the investigative process to see what they are decidently accusing me of and to pretend that I have no idea why they are accusing me, because on a Friday, on a black day of justice, it was published in all the daily newspapers that exist in this country full content of criminal charges against me. Of course, it hasn't been reported that the same man who signed that criminal charges, after seven days in second place, made a record, which fully analyzes 90% of that criminal report, but we won't be talking about it here. I prefer those who advocate legalism to know that Article 77 of Section 5 speaks of the National Assembly being able to decide to apply immunity, means additionally to protect a fellow MP, if he himself did not want to call himself in some process, precisely because he would be protected, so that he could perform his post here in parliament. Since this MP isn't invited, and he publicly says he wants to leave, I don't see why we should discuss it here? I'm gonna go there, I'm not gonna call for immunity, and when I find out and I'm surprised what I've been invited to do, because I've already read in all the papers on the same conducting day on April 13th, on Friday, which is what it is, I'm gonna get Mr. Investigations' complete paperwork right now, and that he and I, hopefully, are gonna do the whole thing right now. Another member, to whom an administrative commission could possibly be called, is Article 77(4), which speaks if an MP is called for immunity. If someone went into the investigation process and concluded that it was a vengeful political investigation process, which is not a rare case these days in the country of Serbia, we have overcome all the countries of Eastern Europe where there has been a change in government and regime, so the MP decides to call for immunity to challenge this session and start talking about what it is, it cannot continue the process until you decide whether it can go on or not. Therefore, my dear MPs, I am now talking about morality, you are being brought, by someone's desire, into a very unpleasant situation. You are in a position to decide on your fellow MP, which is much more difficult for MPs, the president of the largest parliamentary group, to decide on something that you absolutely have no right under the law. I'm not invited to the investigation process. Let me tell you right now -- if I was invited, I would go, I would listen to what's going on, and I wouldn't call for immunity, because I have complete documentation for everything that has been zealously recorded by the media under the control of the ruling regime. You now need to use a formulation that speaks of your additional right to protect me, and I haven't called for immunity, nor have I been in the investigation process, and you can't appeal to Article 77, Section 4, because I didn't call for immunity, so on the basis of that, you're very guilty, we're removing your immunity. Now I'd like to talk about morality. You, MPs, belong to a group that has talked about corruption, crime, cigarettes, smuggling in many months, etc. in the last 11 months. We SPS MPs have accepted an extraordinary session on corruption and crime in the last 11 years. We're good with that, too. And we want some things from the past to cross. Out of all the Taliban, the government's downfall, corruption and high-level crime, it ended up with what -- the immunity of the SPS parliamentary group president. Think about it yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11588	Thank you. The word has been given by the MP, Mr Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11589	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, seems to me to be here, despite all the general places that were dominant in the presentation of my predecessors, essential three topics: the position of MPs in our society, the attitude of the Assembly towards society and, finally, what is not less important is the political responsibility that arises and that follows this topic. It is true that the MP protects immunity and that his status is legally different from the rest of society. But it's also true that with this immunity, which is a great right, there are certain obligations. Obligations that MPs commit to a different relationship, among other things, to treatment during their work and activities that he would not have put himself in a position to be held accountable for the abuse of official office as Mr Ivkovic or for the criminal act of endangering human health, as an SSP MP, Mr Canovic. The assembly can't be a courtroom, even though in the past ten years it's been. Today, while we have the parliamentary majority, something like that cannot be allowed. Let the courts deal with it. The assembly must be a place where we will talk seriously and argued about everything, well, among other things, and about the rights that follow the status of MPs. Let the court assess whether Mr. Ivkovic is responsible for what he is running at the moment and whether Mr. Canovic is responsible for what the prosecution is assessing at the moment. We are obliged to meet them and allow them this kind of activity, for the congregation must not be braked. This isn't a political process. For six months, the procedure has raised the issue of Mr. Ivkovic's immunity. If you look at the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic Assembly, you will notice that this debate could have been very elegantly avoided during the summer break and that it was enough for the Administrative Board to meet and without any debate in parliament to provide a positive response to the judge's request. I don't think there's any political pressure in this. This is no kind of political rematchism. This may be a precedent. In any case, it is, but the Serbian parliament will, at least from this moment on, be the place to discuss everything, and above all, we must discuss our personal responsibility for everything that comes from our work. Let today’s debate be a warning to anyone who finds the law in the congregation and who expects that with authority he can count on a privilege that, in itself, does not follow his status.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11590	Thank you. The replica was answered by Mr. Ivkovic, and then the word will be received by Mr. Pelevic and Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11591	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have reported more because of citizens of Serbia who are watching this, and also because of my family and children, let's clear some things up. First, on April 13th, on Friday, all the lists in the country of Serbia issued a criminal report against me. The judge called and said it was completely illegal, because someone stole it from his premises or someone deliberately gave it to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and we know who it is and during the debate I'll tell you who it is, if necessary. All the newspapers have issued an indictment against a man, no way he's defending himself. He sat down with the Administrative Committee, where with only one vote of the required half, he decided to hurry, decided to hurry up, because he called for Article 77(5) of the Constitution, which reads: "The National Assembly may decide to apply immunity to the MP and if he did not call upon him himself when it is necessary to perform his parliamentary function". So this is the member to whom the Administrative Board is called. I repeat, I'm not invited to the judge. I'm saying if I'd been invited, I would've gone, and I wouldn't have called for immunity at all, if I'd seen everything running normally, if there wasn't any pressure on the judge by the prosecutor who signed it, and he's known for it. Now about the premature procedure, since it was during the regular session. The Management Board was obliged to instruct the Assembly to hold such a discussion during the next regular session. She couldn't have in an emergency session the same commission, she had no right to discuss it anymore, because she had already concluded the case. It was supposed to be now on October 1st at a regular session and working regularly. But someone's in a hurry. And in an extraordinary session, after a great story of corruption and crime at a time when the standard falls, when 2.5 billion marks of rebalancing is between exports and imports, the decline of production at a time when your leaders call for registration on Kosovo and thus recognition of the Hackerup Constitution, and we said here that there is none and that we do not recognise it. Someone is in a hurry to put on the agenda an emergency session to question the immunity of the SPS parliamentary group president. Think about what, think about yourself, and I think Ambassador Vojislav Seselj is right. Think of it as important for the country of Serbia to calm the claus, to live normally in this country, to be political insolent, not political enemies.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11592	The word has a National MP, Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11593	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when the term emergency session is used, then the public of Serbia expects that there will really be some very important things to say: they expect us to talk today about registration and the elections planned in Kosovo and Metohija for 17 November this year; they expect to discuss Serbia-Montenegro's relations; an ever worse standard of Serbia's citizens, today's strike and blockade of Vojvodina farmers. They expect to talk about such things. But I don't do this kind of agenda. However, I would like to say that Mr Cedomir Jovanovic has used the name of the Serbian Unity Party very maliciously. It is true that Dr. Canovic is really on the agenda today regarding the withdrawal of immunity. Dr. Canovic never called for immunity. Mr. Jovanovic wanted to represent him as some kind of criminal. He's a doctor, a surgeon, he was on a team that did a very difficult surgery a few years ago, a kid had a tumor and a kid died. You understand, it's a lawsuit rejected by the prosecution and by the judges. But this is about his parents' private lawsuit. With all the compassion and condolences of that family, one MP, a surgeon, can't be placed in the ranks of criminals, as he wanted to be presented by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, saying it was an MP for the Serbian Unity Party who is charged with endangering other people's lives. So please keep that in mind. Dr. Canovic will address this assembly and the Serbian public today on the case. So he never called for immunity, and he doesn't want to. In addition, the question is whether this can be put on the agenda at all today, because according to the Rules of Procedure, if it is not a regular session, a decision on such matters shall be taken by the Administrative Board, and that shall be the only one that will tell the Assembly. That's what the Rules of Procedure says. No one escapes from discussing it in this session of the congregation. So I'd like to take this opportunity and say one more thing. Rules of Procedure, Article 196, have been injured because the president of the National Assembly, Mr. Marsicanin, did not put on the agenda a request from the Soviet Parliament for the replacement of Mr. Dragan Vesenov's agriculture minister. In accordance with Article 196. Rules of Procedure, he was obliged to do so 15 days after the delivery of the request. The request was delivered in May of the month, and that has not yet been discussed. There are also demands from another parliamentary group for the replacement of two other Serbian government ministers, but also for reasons unknown to me, it is not on the agenda. I understand that both the president of the assembly and the ministers involved are members of the DOS, but I think that the Rules of Procedure should apply to all MPs, regardless of the parliamentary group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11594	The word has a People's MP, Mr. Seselj, second call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11595	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I think this debate is not bad, it has begun as a principle and it would be good to end it as a principle and to establish certain rules, which we will stick to in the future. Someone here said the National Assembly shouldn't be a brake. That's exactly what this is about. The National Assembly must be a brake to both the administrative and judicial authorities, to prevent their will. It is one of the basic constitutional functions of the National Temptation. We often hear from the mouth of some DOS ministers that the Assembly is not effective, that the Assembly is slow, that it is holding them back, etc. They are in fact challenging the essential congregation authority. They would like the Assembly to automatically adopt everything, to hold sessions for one day, to adopt 10-15 laws in that day, etc. The Assembly is effective in the extent to which it is able to block administrative authority and stop judicial authority, in such cases. That our situation in the judiciary isn't good, we all know that. Here, I filed my first criminal charges months ago, so I filed a lawsuit against Minister Gaš Knezevic. There's no court hearing at all. Someone's able to stop it. Then, some lawyers, after the public prosecutors refused to prosecute, committed criminal prosecution against all members of the Serbian government, who voted to deliver Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague in an anti-constitutional and illegal manner. This same Dragomir Nedic, whose name says he's a doctor, I guess, who's a lawyer now. The republican public prosecutor, in an interview with the daily newspaper, says there is no reason to prosecute members of the government because they have done what they have done in extreme need. The Republic Public Prosecutor has no idea what an emergency is. There are lawyers among you DOS, there are lawyers. The ultimate necessity is for example. If the U.S. Air Force shot down that plane headed for Washington, it'd rather have 50 passengers dead than 200 or 500 or 1,000. It may be an extreme necessity that excludes criminal prosecution, even though a criminal act exists. Or, the man is drowning in the river, the other one is coming to his rescue. He who drowns unwittingly drowns the one who helps him and saves himself. A man did it in extreme need. Now your lawyers and your V.D. The Republic's public prosecutor goes public and says - the government was in extreme need and that's why it violated the Constitution and the law. You're telling us here about the judiciary, and we still don't have the Constitutional Court of Serbia, we don't have the Supreme Court. Not to say how Leposava Karamarkovic, Vida Petrovic, etc. behaves. Because all of us, both of us from the opposition and you from the government, know in what state our judiciary is in, we all understand that the judiciary is instrumentalized, that the most corrupt criminals are not being prosecuted. Here is Stanko Sudotic Canet, a wanted one, fled to Croatia, bought Croatian citizenship, as soon as the government changed, the warrant was withdrawn, he freely moved around Serbia. By order of the regime, Milo Djukanovic is now a journalist in Podgorica convicted of passing on what others write about Stanko Sudotic Canet. And Stanko Subotic Cane is the prime suspect in the murder of Radovan Stojcic Badge, a police general. Don't make us...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11596	Mr. Seselj, let's focus our attention on what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11597	This is my explanation for why I'm against this kind of procedure. So, I explain concrete examples of practice. My attention is precisely focused on this piece of paper that was delivered to us here. Here, I haven't even seen the paper for Canovic yet. That's the point. Someone has to limit self-will and administrative and judicial authority. That someone can only be a parliament. That is why parliament must not deliver its members to a court or administrative authority without severe torment. That's what the Constitution has been foreordaining. It's the possibility of saying more than five years in prison if it comes to committing a crime. Well, even then, when it is found in execution, then detained, parliament should establish immunity, unless it is a situation in which the perpetrator has so cleverly turned aside that there is a danger that there is a further threat to the lives and assets of other persons at large. That's the essence of this legal institute. You are essentially one legal institute, which is ultimately objectively opposed to the principle of interest, the principle of the goal and the principle of your political need. You have a political need to scold political opponents. Well, you can find political opponents that they've crossed the crosswalk somewhere red. You can find out that somewhere more noisy in a public place in the small hours of the night, etc. It is always estimated what is a greater social danger - whether the fact that a member of the legislative body may break the law, but in one benign variant, or whether there is a greater social danger when parliament delivers its members to the executive and judicial authorities and thus, in its being, changes the relationship of power in its body. So, you could, on this same line, by this same method, order Leposavi Karamarkovic, and she will, we know, meet all your requirements, initiate proceedings against all opposition MPs and eliminate them so that you can effectively pass laws. You think parliament is effective when everything votes without delay, when there are no brakes. But then it's not parliament anymore. That's the point. We had one rule earlier - on private charges that no one would be taken away. Now you've put it into practice, we're hearing newspaper hints, and we haven't seen any congregation papers yet. But it's something that in this case cannot represent a rule and an example of reputation. It can't be something that has a lasting value. It can't be something that will convince all people that it's right, that from the point of view of the legal order it's good and that it protects the elemental constitutional values. This is where much higher constitutional principles, the principles of the legal order, the principles of democracy are trampled in order to achieve some small matter, to be harassed. Because what we're doing is, in fact, harassment. If you had brought a criminal report here, and we were considering it, so that we could get into the essence of the matter, so that we would estimate that it's really a serious accusation and say, it's so serious that the MPs are being delivered to the judiciary, that would be fine. But on the unseen that MPs are delivered, whether to court, or to the administrative authority, it is a precedent that the parliamentary practice of the civilized world simply does not know. We have so many cases of abuse of the judicial system of power, we have so many abuses in the field of administrative authority, that no one raises the issue. You have no problem with the fact that a large number of members of the government broke the Constitution and the Law on Vidovdan this year, but the problem is that you can eventually get someone to take advantage of whether or not he has misused the function, and there is no evidence that he was using himself personally. Really, that's very funny. Then it's a matter of political assessment. Because abuse of function exists there when some tangible material benefit is acquired for itself or for another. Where there is no use, it can be the wrong political decision. But the wrong political decision is not answered. Of course, we know from experience, all these processes end up at the expense of the government. Always one who has been persecuted gets moral satisfaction, but after a certain number of years. I assure you. Seven books forbade me and I can think about how judges who signed those sentences feel today, or those who tried me for eight years in prison, etc. I can think of what it's like in their skin. But I'm lucky I can never be in their shoes. (President: Time. ) For, to commit injustice by misusing a function in this way is a much more serious crime and a moral misdemeanor, rather than acting as some incompetent civil servant or incompetent political official or inadequate in a certain position, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11598	If none of the representatives of the parliamentary groups appear anymore, the word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11599	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is now at a very serious crossroads. It's only twice. One of them's already been crossed and wet. Mostly the Socialists, with the help of New Democracy, have traveled that way, and we have all called this road a non-democratic path so far. The second time is much harder, for which today the National Assembly should go, which is a democratic way of thinking and handling. You today have a unique opportunity to prove your stories. You haven't been able to prove many of these stories. Many of your promises in practice have been turned into the opposite. But here's the story of democracy and the story of Serbia being more free and normal to live when one day power is changed. Today we need to allow two MPs of the people to be prosecuted. It's not that simple, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that you might mind our discussion and just wait until the time has passed for the debate. You may find us boring today, because you are not in a situation of your skin and because you think that your skin will never be discussed, in any parliament. They will, for God's sake. There's no one who's been in charge most of the time. But don't introduce a precedent, don't let it become a constant practice for you, that the new government, one year after the choices it won, is only accounting with the previous government, with the current political rivals. When you look at the situation in the country and what you have done so far, and you are all responsible for it with your votes in the congregation, you can only boast of it more indemnity. There is no production in Serbia, there is no better life in Serbia, there is no freedom in Serbia, especially not the media, and the media has brought you to power. There is nothing in Serbia that you can say is better than by October 5th, until the time you came to power. Now, you also need to introduce a practice that you can remove immunity at every session without being interested in why they are stripping without opposition MPs having the right to know. I'm probably one of the deputies with the longest internship in the National Assembly, so I can have a little experience, especially my own, to pass on to you. Perhaps some of you will help, especially those who in the last month present themselves in public as some other DOS, who, with that other DOS, has nothing mixed. I was one of the victims of the congregation's majority that abolished immunity. I know very well what it looks like and never did Serbian radicals vote, nor has it ever been removed by the votes of the Serbian Radical Party to any MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You know, the one who's being prosecuted for a great crime has no face to call for immunity, nor has the congregation ever established immunity for him. Think about what you're doing. The president of Yugoslavia said there was crime, organised, mob crime in the DOS. The president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia said there are all these in the DOS, mentioning expensive gifts you get, travel to private planes, allowing many privates to live as a fat kidney today. Will you one day answer for it? Do you think one day some congregation, bitter about everything you've done, and has a majority, will think about you? You're causing traffic accidents, endangering other people's safety and other people's lives. You're doing millions of damage to both the state and the individuals. Do you think someday someone from the D.A.'s office will call you to account for it? Consider that no one is eternal, and a special condition in society is not forever. If it were better in the country than it was, you might not even have to be very concerned, but the situation is terrible, almost hopeless. It's the only way to get rid of the election. He didn't say that someone looking for an election is causing a crisis in the country. The crisis causes one who doesn't make the election, and the MP's group is falling apart in front of the nation's eyes. How many of you are there already? Four, five parliamentary groups, and wherever you gather as 10 MPs, you will form a parliamentary group. What I see on TV and in the papers about what your conflicts look like, and I can only assume that you're holding each other's throats and cursing each other at closed meetings, convinces me there has to be choices, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament. If it must be already known that the vast majority of you will never be in power again, so many will say this is your sin, although some of you now think it may not be a sin. You are introducing a practice to extend a poor manner of the Socialist Party of Serbia, to remove immunity from the MP, although it is an extraordinary session. Let me remind you, that is how some MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have lost their immunity here and already detained in the court, in the police, and afterwards in the Gjilan court, although the Constitutional Court of Serbia has opened a debate about it, and even the rapporteur has asked that MPs be released immediately, because the Constitution does not distinguish a regular and extraordinary session. For him is the Messenger of the people who has immunity, whether it is a month or a July or a month, and 249 of his colleagues are declared to him, as they wish and as their conscience enjoins. You have changed nothing in the judiciary, except that those who served the former regime change those who would serve your regime. That's where you're most efficient. Today's material has five kilos, replaces the president of courts, prosecutors, over here, over there, turn around, turn around, and don't occur to you to establish the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. Where will this MP whom you may lift immunity, where will he further seek protection, before which court? When will the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia come? Is there a democratic state in the world that there is no constitutional court, that there is no one at the highest level, no changes, then estimates whether the laws are constitutional, are decisions legal? There were smart people 15 centuries ago, so even then they said there were laws to limit the will of both masters and judges. You now think you're both masters and judges. You didn't, and you always have to keep that in mind. There's a lot of you here unserious, but there are some serious people who've been doing serious business, I guess. Don't follow these insecure things they don't know about life, nothing at all. Some of them were caught with drugs in their cars. They're taking you now, taking pictures on TV. Even then, the proceedings were not conducted, even though it was a dictatorial authority, and now they're running the state, so you don't know whether or not it's under fact, whether it's going to take off its immunity or not, whether it's adrenaline or not, whether it's in the phase that it's going to kill itself or it's going to kill someone, so it's going to sit in an angry car and drive 200 an hour past people who drive 100, 80, with weak brakes. All I'm saying is I'm repeating and I've already named everything, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People. As far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, I'm not afraid of anything. And when they made us go to jail, the party's popularity grew, the traitors fell off, but that's why there's no one left to fall off. I know what you're... Now the CIA is asking that other parliamentary groups fall off those who can fall off. It won't be safe here, and I guarantee it, but that's why it's falling off with you. You're publishing all the verdicts in the papers before they initiate any action. It's called pressure on the judiciary, the fact that we in the paper four or five months earlier find out who you're after, and what you're chasing him for, and he's already been convicted, his immunity's already been lifted. That's the pressure on the judiciary. Much worse, much more drastic than the one that's been done so far, but how you do it will be returned to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11600	Replica, Dragan Marsican, and then MP Predrag Canovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11601	I don't like it when I'm misquoted and especially when I'm mentioned in the function of the president of the National Assembly, so then there goes the wrong quote. I never spoke as president of the National Assembly, especially not about there being crime in the Democratic Opposition of Serbia. Just as Vice-President of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I was talking about that the Ministry of Interior is not energetic enough, it didn't war well enough with what you left Serbia here, which is organised crime, that's corruption, that's lawlessness, and that's what I'm saying about the Ministry of the Interior. We hold that grudge as a party, not as the president of the National Assembly, and the parties that make up the Democratic opposition to Serbia, to show attention, as a potential danger that threatens to stop reforms, which are necessary for the system that you created and that has mutilated this Serbia to be corrected and Serbia to take a better path. That's what I've been talking about, and that's not what I'm talking about as president of the National Assembly, but as vice president of the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11602	The word has a National MP, Predrag Canovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11603	Dear People's MPs, I would only briefly like to explain for your sake here, and especially for the general public what lies in the basis of the initiation of this immunity-deprivement procedure. I guess most of you know that I'm a doctor specialist and a teacher at the medical school in Kragujevac, calling a doctor. So this is about the parents' private lawsuit against not only me, but several doctors at the Kragujevac Clinical Hospital Center, and unfortunately the death outcome of their child’s disease. The autopsy report, if that's even significant here, found that the child had a congenital abdominal tumor. I understand the pain of parents, which is perfectly normal, but it is clear that there is no objective guilt of the doctor. For these reasons, I insisted that immunity be withdrawn in order to establish all relevant facts in a regular and normal court procedure. And finally let me say that I didn't call for parliamentary immunity, not with the judicial authorities, and I am so much more and more unclear why they even asked the National Assembly to declare it. So, Mr. Cedomire Jovanovic, I didn't ask for any law, I don't need any law, my law is actually true, and I wouldn't allow myself to use this house as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11604	The People's Messenger, Aleksandar Vukic, has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11605	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the people of Serbia expected, were expecting citizens of Serbia, after all that has been happening in the last months, to discuss more seriously today, how we will solve our people's problem in Kosovo and Metohija, about who is pushing and driving our people to elections to recognise the independent and independent state of Shipara in Kosovo and Metohija, to talk about why in Serbia lives harder, why prices are growing and wages are not even nominally growing, to talk about why there are less and less democracies in Serbia, why there is a one-of-the-art thing that hasn't existed since 1989, since the time of the break-up of the Socialist Union of the working people and the Alliance of Communist Yugoslavia. However, today we are talking about something that should be of little importance to many, but in parliamentary practice it must mean much more than an ad personam of decision making, so individual people's immunity, in this case, two people, and it should represent the adoption of a certain attitude under which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not only with this majority, but also with the changed majority, and to show that a different political practice is possible from what it was. Since many people have spoken here about what practice is, I'm going to tell you something about what I remember, what we from the SRS have been through, what has been going on against the constitution and against the law in this House, in this National Assembly. I would like to point out that you do not repeat it to your political opponents, because very quickly you can find yourself on the opposite side, whether on this side of parliament or in the minority, or on this side, it is completely irrelevant. In 1994 and 1995, Vojislav Seselj, Tomislav Nikolic, Jovic Stojmenovic and many other SRS MPs and activists in Gjilan were arrested for nothing, because they climbed the bench and wanted to speak. They've been lying in a Gnillan prison for four months, according to a misdemeanor report. At the night session, two months then, and four months before that, their immunity was removed, after midnight was scheduled, past all norms, past practices, parallel-law political practices, beyond our home practice. Then they started here, and I never even told them exactly how it all happened, but now I can, seeing that some of them have gone to your side, what the pressures have been done here. I happened to be a deputy head of the parliamentary group at the time, and Tom Nikolic was in prison and I can tell you that these pressures were terrible, they were threats, blackmails -- we're going to take off your immunity, so in the end they weren't even taking off immunity, and they were taking action against me that I allegedly attacked someone I didn't even see, believe it or not. I allegedly attacked Miroslav Derret then, now for the first time in public, who I haven't even seen all day about. There was a misdemeanor case against me, and I didn't want to talk about it at all. I was talking about Slobodan Milosevic and the Socialist Party, but I didn't want to talk about anything else, but I'm telling you what practice it is if immunity is eliminated in that way. And then and today, there is one practice contrary to what the president of the DOS parliamentary group was talking about today. He said -- it's no place for parliament to be tried and nowhere else will he be tried, except in court. That's not true. It was tried in this country first of all in all the media. You can think of these people. I was about 25, I couldn't tell anyone how hard it was for me. They took people from MPs' groups that they could buy and bribe, they tried with me and just because I didn't give it up, I was lurking around downtown not knowing, nobody to say "good afternoon" and "good evening," because on state television, they made a contribution of 12 minutes about how I'm "Hitler Jugend," how I'm crazy, abnormal, like this and like that, and I don't know what. After I show you that there's no difference between you and them, don't worry, it won't happen again, no matter how much you laugh or how good it looks to you. When you finish half the school of what some think they are, then you can tell them, and that cynical smile won't do you any good. So I hope it doesn't happen again. After that, you accused me through your media, a certain man named (and I never said this in public) Gradimir Nalic almost accused me of murder through all the media you controlled. It's been months, and when I've been out, people think -- look, this guy killed someone, this guy's a nobody. What about you? You lied. In front of my two-year-old kid at that time, I had to fight a few times, and I won't run from anyone, and I won't be afraid of anyone because I know what I am, but I'm telling you about your trial. Judge everyone. Just a month or two ago, we were holding rallys on the streets of Belgrade, suddenly I hear, they're calling me on Pink TV, calling my parents and saying, "What is it, son, what's a criminal report again?" They say because you didn't file a report, I don't know what kind of application. Condemned a man in advance, and you don't even have criminal charges. Someone was playing with human fate again, someone was looking forward to other people's troubles, someone else's accident, and they don't even know why, and in the end it's not true. Because he thinks he can judge and because he thinks he can do what he wants and what he wants and because others thought the same way. Because they think that this kind of political pressure is profitable. There are those who won't be afraid of it, I said it then, and last time, whatever they want and whatever they want, I won't call for immunity at all. You want to shoot? Fire! You can do anything, as you lynched people, and never those who lynched people answered, but those who were the subject of that lynching. Don't get that out of your mind, don't forget that. I sincerely hope that never happens to you. I see what, again, unfortunately, hatred develops in people who are against you, as it existed in people who were against the previous regime. I see it and I'm not looking forward to it. I see it in my family, with my friends, with my acquaintances, and it's not good in Serbia. We together have to cure it, we have to fight it together. They can all be political opponents to me, but nobody ever needs to kill anyone or fear for their fate or for the fate of their family. In this way, because it is thought that one institute that has been established to avoid any arbitration, primarily political authorities, so administrative and judicial authorities, is unfortunately a small part of the executive system in our country, as if it were part of a bicep executive government in our country, not an independent branch of government, and that's what has to be prevented. The essence of parliamentaryism is in the so-called system. "checks and balance" - brake and balance. Parliament is the one, the National Assembly is the one who has to stop the administration and the judiciary if they are not going in the right direction, in the right direction. That's the point. If we allow it, so every judge has to do whatever they want on the orders of someone from the top of the political establishment, then we have done nothing, and then we will show that we have no political respect, no respect for our opponents, we will show that we do not respect citizens who have chosen those who think differently from the authorities and who think differently from the regime. It's one principle, and if it collapses, I think it will bring disastrous consequences for our country and our people. And another thing in the end, since I never liked it, but this time he didn't say it from his place, he went out for a pay phone. I have to notice that we have heard a lot of things, even much harder accusations than those said by Tomislav Nikolic, from the representatives of the DSS government, but every time they think they shouldn't repeat it in certain places, or they're afraid when someone's there, who might answer them from another DOS. I won't go into it, but don't say that we ruined two years of what we were, a minority partner, before the war, during the war and after the war, when you cheer and dress in this Serbia for a year, and you'll be much more without giving any evidence of it. The easiest thing to do is to insult someone, to say nonsense, to tell the truth, and you think you've solved everything. You are not, Mr. Martian, you leave to this people both lawlessness and corruption and crime. (President: Time. I know it's time, time's just coming for us. For you, time goes by, don't get that out of your mind. But there's one more thing you need to know, Mr. Martian, that kind of insult, that kind of communist rhetoric from 1946, for everything that happens, when it doesn't fall, well, it's the one before that, the guilty king, it's Milan Stojadinovic, it's everyone else's fault. That's how you do it. It's nobody's fault, it's your fault, and it's your fault that we've lost all these embassies, consulates, residences, you've blamed us for growing crime, you've blamed us for the growing misery, for the growing destruction of our people, which is worse and more pronounced than even at the time of our people's greatest loss, and in the time of aggression, even in the time of that aggression. And then we had more production, and then we were doing more than we were doing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11606	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11607	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, justice and justice are a very serious matter, that in no case can they be left to the judge, that the judge can do whatever he wants and initiate the actions he thinks he is, and that the legislative authority has no control and no control. For nearly 40 years, I have been working on the affairs of the administration and the judiciary, and I cannot accept such an accusation, and I cannot accept such a trial, as it is presented today in the Republic Parliament, that two MPs are being tried, based on any facts, arguments and evidence. What was delivered to the MPs, I can tell you, that's one thing. People's MPs today are judges in this House, they need to make one decision. The decision is equal to any court ruling, this decision today, if negatively taken by two MPs in the Republic Parliament, is more difficult than making a wrong decision by one judge in the municipal or county court, or by a larger municipal or county court. I would draw your attention to the fact that someone should respond and be taken away from him, as Dr Vojislav Seselj, the president of the SRS, said, in detail, I would not like to repeat, but he is certainly far right when he spoke of it - when immunity can be taken away from the MP and what is the purpose of taking away immunity, what is the importance of parliament to pay attention when parliamentary immunity is taken away from the MP. What could be the tenth in the next period -- don't, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's put in practice that now someone from another party is suing, don't God, MPs of the ruling party, or ruling parties, and that's to charge with a private lawsuit and demand that the court file against the same party, and therefore ask for its immunity to be decided by parliament. I believe that there must be relevant evidence for the introduction of this practice and the confiscation of immunity to the MP. As I understand it, the ruling parties also advocate legality and legality. Many seek evidence when it is necessary to establish something and to make a decision on certain facts that may be relevant and decisive for the government or for our citizens. What this proposal says, I must tell you as a lawyer with years of experience, and I count that there are more lawyers in this House, who also know and understand that they cannot see from this paper any evidence, which would be a decisive fact, therefore, a decisive fact for making the relevant decision. That's why I'm drawing attention -- here, just to remind you, the rest is recorded, in the IJ century, that Saxon King Friedrich sentenced 44 judges to hanging because they pronounced illegal convictions and killed people. The decision, which today would aim to deal politically with political insinuators, would be one wrong decision, and I particularly draw attention because it is a decision to be made by the MPs. What will happen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, if you take away the immunity of these two MPs, deliver them to the investigating judge and the court, to be tried, and in the course of the trial there is no evidence that they have committed a criminal offence for which they are being charged? Who's gonna fix the mistakes? Is it possible to correct a mistake? Those who suffer harm suffer from the harm of the Messengers of the people. We heard an MP from Kragujevac, a doctor who said why he was indicted before the court and why he had to answer - there is no solid and reliable evidence that today could be concluded and decided, and convicted. That later the court declares these people and frees them, then who in this congregation will be able to look at those people's faces and what defeat and what moral harm should be suffered by the MPs? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I draw attention to the MPs and suggest that this proposal not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11608	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11609	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I tell you how I feel about this item of the agenda and about the proposal of your parliamentary group, with the agenda set out like this, to take away the immunity of the MPs Branislav Ivkovic and Dr Predrag Canovic, I will say that it is symptomatic at all that today, on 17 September, the eighth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, given that in more than 10 days, since 1 October, we are entering a regular session. This defined agenda and the proposal that we meet here today, in my deep conviction, is a way to feel the pulse of the split DOS manlia, because what you've read in the press, what you've been announcing with all your halabukh, has been arousing the public over the past two months of your fights, by breaking up within your famous coalition, has today come true through the formation of two other parliamentary clubs. The fact that you today will vote uniquely, I suppose, if something does not happen in the meantime, about these points of the agenda, for the citizens of Serbia, does not mean a better future under your authority. This item of the agenda and the proposal to take away the two MPs' immunity, is just a confirmation of what I, as an MP of the SRS, have been saying here from the constitution of the Assembly, of what we Serbian radicals have potentialed throughout the public, and citizens are increasingly seeing and feeling it on their skin, which is that you, instead of the declared democratic principles that you have been so called upon, are first of all going to the worst possible way to deal with political indifferences, which we here had the opportunity to feel on our skin when you threw us out, against the Business Office, from the National Assembly's gym. The vote on the confiscation of immunity is one principle issue, and above all, I want to defend the principle and institution of immunity of the MP. What makes perfect sense to everyone is that if a criminal case is brought against any citizen, and these are MPs, I don't understand why he's in such a hurry with such a decision and the desire to take away their immunity when it comes to the fact that, if any criminal act is proven to anyone, and this is a political party, it represents voters, if it can be proven before the competent court, it will bear political, moral and any other consequences. This puts his survival into question in further business, survival in political life. But that's not the case here. It has once again shown that you are in the worst possible way violating the highest law in our country, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because in Article 77. The Constitution of the Republic is said that the National Assembly can decide to apply immunity to the MP and if it has not been called upon, when necessary to perform its duties. Instead of protecting those MPs who have not even called for immunity (having in mind the fact that we will soon, although you do not want to do so, it will come to the national will alone, to have extraordinary elections), because the Constitution says that any MP can be detained without the approval of the National Assembly, unless he is found guilty of committing a criminal act, for which the sentence of prison is prescribed for more than 5 years, you want to show your passion once again, that you are powerful, that you can do anything, that you can judge and judge in advance. Besides, you have your mentors, you have the one you welcomed 15 days ago in Belgrade, which you warmly hugged and kissed, Carla del Ponte, who, by the same principle, without predetermined charges of some alleged crimes, condemns Serbs in the Hague casamat. You also have a minister of justice who says, and I hold in my hands the highest law, something that all citizens of Serbia, and, above all, MPs, should respect, is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that the Constitution is not the Holy Scriptures, what matters. You also have a member of the duties of the Republic Public Prosecutor who says, "We've been coerced, what's the matter, we'll violate the Constitution." You still have such a majority, and so you rule that the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, with his, so-called cabinet, brings more than 90 regulations, and you knew the trees and stones to pour on the former government and on the period in which we, the Serbian radicals, participated in the government, when there was only one regulation, an anti-monopolistic one, which would protect the market for the most basic provisions of life. You have such a power where we have the kind of society, the moral principles that should be in front of all of you sitting here, even though you've been split into four parliamentary groups, tells us exactly who's hiding, goes under the laps of the biggest criminals in our country, who didn't have, what our people would say, nothing, not even dogs to bite him for, and today he's driving in the most expensive cars and still doesn't know how to drive. I don't have a driver's license, so I can't even brag about being one or another driver. But he has it, and maybe he doesn't, running along Serbian roads and tearing it all down in front of him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11610	Miss Jovanovic, would you mind coming back on the subject?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11611	I'm extremely fond of the subject, but since you haven't been in the past two months, as long as we haven't met, you could learn that I'm not a Member but an MP, I can't expect you to follow closely what I'm saying and even know what's on the agenda and what I'm focusing on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11612	It's not on the agenda either.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11613	The question here is the personal responsibility of each and every one of you, when you press a button on the sounder in front of you. You have to ask yourself when, if you are such ossions, so will you, and if you took our word and threw us out of the assembly hall, will you, and I believe very quickly, come into the situation, or the position of the opposition, and what will happen to you? That should not sound like a threat, because we Serbian radicals have always been, and when we were arrested and imprisoned, when they were gathering MPs from the SPS and New Democracy in Serbia during the night, taking immunity from our ambassadors, taking them to prisons, we never used those methods of your work and your arches. I would warn you that if you continue to act like this, if you continue according to the principle of Broz's Communists, whose followers you are, to press the MPs, to put pressure on the workers, because we have had opportunities during the summer months to see how, by the principle of Google Island in Kragujevac, you ask 30,000 employees to revise their views and say - The government is good, the government has a good program; if we have a chance to see that judges and judges judge what Batić is asking them to do, and even someone, even someone, who is very close and extended to you later, on the third point of the agenda, who you have put on the head of the Serbian Judges' Society regrets in some newspapers and says - they don't call me so much on the phone anymore, but they are now threatening by the media; even those who have an extremely close and extended hand to your work - what they should only expect ordinary citizens, how they should act in order to have such a future. So, you showed that by coming to the parliamentary bench you had only one goal -- that all the hatred accumulated back 10 years, which you were carrying, which seems to me to be more and more pronounced towards political insinuators, in this way you are manifesting here; and if your inconsistencies and how you use and abuse the media, which are absolutely under your control, is an illustrative example of when SRS MPs have been expelled, with the help of a large group of security workers, when you're in the prime information show of TV "Politics" published such news as that we're Gordana Pop-Lazic, and you see what kind of constitutions are, and I've been obstructing official persons in the performance of duty -- when you were able to publish such news that we've prevented official persons in the official duty, such bushes of two meters, when you were able to release 15 thousand people, and nothing more than myself, and you're late. I would not be surprised if you continued to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to change some of your Dossmania constitutions, and you intend to tangle Serbia with a new constitution, to say that the MP can be detained if he says something that you do not like about the assembly's pay phone. So nothing would surprise me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11614	The word has a folk MP, Zarko Obradovic, the next reported for discussion is MP Zivodarka Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11615	The Honored Presidency, fellow MPs, the Serbian Parliament today decides whether immunity is to be applied to MPs or not, in order to grant the initiation of a criminal procedure, so that MPs are immediately available to investigative and judicial authorities. There were several cases on the Management Board when the issue of applying immunity to MPs was raised. We socialists are also on the Committee, and today we will vote in the Assembly against the seizure of immunity. Why were we and why would we still be against it today? A question like this should be a purely formal issue, which the Assembly decides without debate, because the MP should not, at least when it comes to this matter, be in a different position than any Serbian citizen. It would be logical in a country where there is division of executive, legislative and judicial authorities, where there is respect for the rights and democratic institutions, where the media are indeed independent, where politics and government members do not interfere in the work of judicial authorities, where there is a professional, competent, impartial judiciary, where no similar issue is politicised or politically abused. Since such a situation does not exist with us in Serbia, where, thanks to unhappiness, i.e. unconstitutional and legal action, the situation is just the other way around. The issue of applying immunity to MPs is used as an opportunity for a general attack both by the press and by political opponents, on a party to which the MP belongs, to himself, with accompanying disqualifications and already handed down judgments, of course without a court. In the second plan is the social need for the right to be applied and to be applied to justice. In the case of MP Ivkovic, the media has ruled in advance, only they have not said how much the punishment is for what he is being accused of. On the same day, a number of different media reported criminal charges against Ivkovic in general. The evidence for this was not only heard in those days, but also written "Politicals", "Today" and other printed media on April 13th of the current year, where the content of this criminal report appeared. We, MPs and members of the Committee, were unable to obtain the content of a criminal report, but the press did. We, MPs and members of the Committee, after the decision, received a letter from an investigative judge, saying that the public is not at all informed, but only the defendant and his defender, and all data from the criminal report may be available at the time of the first examination. And, then, as some means of informing you about the content of this request for the conduct of the investigation and the content of the criminal application, on the basis of which this request has been filed, it informs you that this information does not originate from the District Court in Belgrade, but from the sources unknown to this court, and their statement and publication is contrary to the cited provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, since the first part of the letter mentions the Law on Criminal Procedure. Therefore, under the conditions of an unprecedented media hack and a chaotic state of justice, it is not possible to make an objective and impartial decision. This chaotic, unfortunately one-brained situation was confirmed by one DOS MP when considering this issue on the Administrative Committee. At that time, he said the public expects MP Ivkovic to be removed from his immunity. So public expectations are primarily, not the need to exercise rights or facts available to MPs when deciding on immunity. How to believe in the rule of law, in impartiality, in the professionality of the judiciary, when the citizen Slobodan Milosevic, the previous president of Serbia and the SRJ, first arrests without a court order, then is accused without evidence, and then, on the basis of one of the anti-constitutional and illegal decisions, the government of the Republic of Serbia is kidnapped from the investigative prison and delivered illegally to The Hague tribunal. How to believe in the rule of law, when a man in prison, such as former Head of State Rada Markovic, offers to admit what he has not done and thus accuses and makes another person guilty, and for this false testimony he would get the status of a protected witness, and still comes freedom and money. Therefore, for these reasons, and for many others, no immunity should be taken away from the MPs, because there are no elementary conditions for the normal work of the judiciary. Therefore, while there are conditions that exist, with the control of the media and the media heifer headed against the Socialists, the chaotic situation in the judiciary, the unitaryism of executive authorities, as well as other negative phenomena, which follow the government of the DOS, MPs of the National Assembly should not be removed from immunity. They don't need to be removed for reasons where they are, in their own country, where they live and work, they won't escape, and they'll be available to the judicial authorities very soon. I say, quickly, because in my opinion, the mandate of this assembly will not last long because of the catastrophic state of the country and the need for an anti-national and anti-national government to be replaced by a new one in the elections. After the new elections, given that the existing MPs will cease their mandate, and in particular under new conditions, the question of the alleged criminal liability of individuals should be considered. Then this issue will be resolved without political and party dimensions, which is not the case now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11616	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Zivodarka Dacin, and the next reported for the discussion is MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11617	The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow MPs, the extraordinary session of the Serbian Parliament is obviously scheduled by a very urgent rules of procedure, and among other things to remove the immunity of political insinuators, and here I am primarily referring to Professor Branislav Ivkovic, with all due respect to Professor Dr Canovic. Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic is a man of respect both as an expert and as a scientist, but here he is, above all, interesting as a politician. Thinking about all this, I have come to the conclusion that it may not be so bad to give to a man such as Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic, because it is obviously a man who, at this moment and moment, can perform political destabilisation, and what is even more important, a man of reputation and faith by the people. I would understand, and since it is an extraordinary session, and I particularly liked what Mr Cedomir Jovanovic said, we should be careful about the congregation's attitude towards the state and citizens. Right, I think there are a lot more and more significant topics to discuss in these two months, in extraordinary sessions. First and foremost, to explain to all of us, as well as to the people what it is to register Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as on the territory outside. Does that really mean recognising Hackerup's constitution? However, no, it is much more important for us to remove the immunity of Professor Branislav Ivkovic. To put it on the agenda of agriculture, please, it's very current, so I'm interested in what happens to the price of sunflowers, what happens to sugar tail, when we're finally going to discuss the agriculture that brought the burden of a hard life over the past 10 years. As long as agriculture is in the seal and when this power will finally give primate to agriculture. Above all, it is far more important for us to remove the immunity of Professor Branislav Ivkovic. What is the standard of our citizens, to discuss why it is getting worse every day and why our economic production is growing and our prices are growing more and more. No, it doesn't matter to us, it's important to remove immunity from the MPs. Or, what about crime and corruption, or only on the agenda will most of it be crime and corruption yesterday. What about the university law? Whether it's an institution of national importance or perhaps it won't be, given the cost of tuition, which is necessary for the schooling of students, and also for the dissatisfaction of university professors, we ourselves see that it has been announced that 1 October universities will not start working. We don't pass university law, but that's why we're trying to remove immunity from a university professor. There's a lot more to life and more important topics that I'd like to say about here, but I'd just like to ask myself one thing -- how come the political and ideological lines don't have the same treatment? What it can do in the literature, in pure politics, it can't. Namely, it's written, spoken and fought, not looking at what's gone past. That's not the case here. As we can see, you're even changing our history today. What's that for? Not the opposition to all the brakes, the opponent, that he just wants to destabilise the work here. We're not under another sun. We are here together in one congregation, and it is our duty and obligation to work on the welfare of our people. However, we must fight for political understanding and interpretation, on behalf of democracy, on behalf of the new one, for the real worker and acquaintance at the job of MPs. It seems to me like we're behind these situations, like we're on a 1917 train, which, if I'm not mistaken, was driving into a brighter future. Let's just say it's talked and written about curbing all the negativity in our country. Is it not time to ask ourselves what we do in our activities here as MPs, our speeches and our actions, not to be criticised for our unhappiness and how much? So please - my proposal is to remove this item of the agenda, because, first of all, Professor Branislav Ivkovic did not receive an invitation to report to the court executive, and even less to call for parliamentary immunity. So, I wonder why all this talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11618	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic. Next reported for discussion is MP Slobodan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11619	Dear Members of the People, with all these media stories about reforms, about what a new Serbia should look like, what the future should look like, how we should solve big, fat and important issues for the state and for the people, we are starting the autumn meeting of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly with the issue of taking away immunity from a national MP. Regardless of what political group the MP was from, I have the impression that dust should be spread to the people today, that the thesis of the coming days in the media should be replaced, that a particular campaign should be conducted, that the Serbian public should not be distracted by those issues that are being discussed daily in all places. What are those questions? Some MPs mentioned them before me. I get the impression we didn't say the point. The bottom line is this - how to make it possible and make sure there are no significant differences between citizens in this Serbia anymore? How does the awareness of policy time to small and minor differences, unlike whether the tax rate will be 17 or 20? We're always doing something fateful today. Of course, we're sinking and sinking. Today we come to this, with all that fierce story about fighting crime. Last night I saw a show where this crime-fighting theory was delayed for a period of two, four or six years. There's always talk of someone else bringing crime to the institutions. Now it's a problem to tyckey from institutions to throw out. It's a lot of simple stuff, if anyone wants to solve it. I don't defend much of the previous time, I ask what we're all going to do tomorrow. Today we will discuss the immunity of Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic and Dr. Canovic. I'd say there's a basis, but there shouldn't be a point here at all. The man didn't get a chance to call for immunity. He didn't even have a chance to plead on the elements of criminal charges. The only thing he could say to some journalists was that they wrote, and they knew what the criminal report contained. They also made their comment on criminal charges. Some have also ruled in the media on the criminal report, making such or such assessments. Instead of leaving it to the judiciary, and we heard from my predecessor, who read the judge's statement in the procedure, that he himself was being rewarded from the process that was in the media. So, it's just that there's definitely a breach of the legal procedure and there's no conditions being created for the state or parties in the process that what's perfectly normal, in some normal procedure, are both states and parties that are in the process. Then we want to talk about a new judiciary. From that story about the new judiciary it will definitely work in the coming period through the media, in a very introverted and wrong way. I don't just know who needs to raise that kind of stuff to this level. Why does this point even exist here? There is only one reason - to continue the story that Serbian Socialists, and those who were with them in power, destroyed this country, mutilated, and I don't know what they didn't do. You know, gentlemen, there's been a year of your authority these days. Go through Serbia a little bit and ask the people what they think about it. Far from that story, from that euphoria you had in your previous period, it's gone. The people expect you to be responsible and to do something for this people. When we talked about tax laws in the spring, you know, every year you make the budget, it ends at the end of the year, and it starts a new year, and you're making the budget again. It is yours, you have brought it, you have applied it, and you have given it to the people. There's nothing to do with that job. Business subsidies, maltenes, they don't exist. The economy is stopping, it's even somewhere on the level of 1999. Exports are falling far away. These are not topics for this congregation. This is not to be discussed by the prime minister or ministers in this government, here, but we will now exchange the thesis for the Serbian public and say - we must continue the story that Serbian Socialists or some of the biggest thieves in Serbia, and when we clear them, we will solve all the issues. The people will not eat bread out of it. No one will pay for his heating or electricity, when you have already announced new prices in telecommunications, electricity, bread prices, etc. They can't be paid to soy farmers, sunflowers, etc. These days, strikes begin. Are we gonna talk about this? We don't need strikes, we don't need us, we don't need you. We all want to live normal. Of course, I'll go back to the subject. Why Mr. Ivkovic? The matter is vast - the man is the president of the SPS parliamentary group. The main attack of certain political groups is on the SPS, because someone has to be charged with all that. You have to give up and help others these days, because it's definitely not going to happen. People have bigger things to do, they have problems of their own, they need to give us help. We need to talk about this today. We're not running away from any subject. None of the SPS members, in either parliament or parliament, have called for their immunity. Oh, there's a lot of them. Most of the time, since Slobodan Milosevic has been charged with a famous crime of abuse of official position in encouraging, a similar or same criminal application has taken place by the largest number of SPS members. I guess someone found Article 242 of Section 2, 3rd and 4th of the law and invented that all Serbian Socialists, and these others, must be charged with this very crime. We're now coming to the conclusion that someone should be writing charges on that basis. Why has the indictment of Slobodan Milosevic never seen the light of day? Because she couldn't write herself, so the man is where she is, thanks to everyone who helped him get there. Those criminal charges filed against those persons will never see the light of day. What happened to criminal charges against the people who bombed this country? These days, Dragoljub Milanovic's trial began, although the truth was published in all Serbian media, and Wesley Clark himself said he had ordered that Serbia's Radio-TV bomb be bombed, but the man was still tried as if he had ordered Serbia's Radio-Television bombing. It's amazing, and it can't be sold to children in kindergarten anymore, let alone serious people in this Serbia. To return to Banet Ivkovic, because he is one of the most respected Socialists, because he is leading this parliamentary group, because he is trying to tell the Serbian public, along with all the opposition MPs, the truth and that we all have to defend the truth, so Branislav Ivkovic must be on the stand. You know, it can be done at school with students, when you get mad at a student, but it can't be in a serious home, in the congregation. Here, Milka throws something again. I thought Milk was out of the spring, but you're still in the fall. So I guess we're all gonna have hearing, understanding and realizing that just what we're talking about today shouldn't have been a topic. The topic would be in case Mr. Ivkovic was at the investigating judge and called for his immunity. Someone who has not been charged with criminal charges, who has read in the media, someone who has been told by a journalist that he will answer in one way or another, and not by the authority and the same civil servant who is running the procedure himself says, some other force, force or for unexplained reasons, you do not know who, mostly all Serbian media have published the same text, or the content of a criminal application. It's just amazing. This looks like a justice farce today, and we need to discuss the appointment of judges in the fourth point of the agenda, and you get up here a lot and say this is a historic law. That historic law was also a tax law. Small adjustments, we've been making, we've been talking and these days the government's stories are coming up that there's no money in the budget for this or that. We know it can't go that way against the gray economy. (President: Time, Mr. Tomic. Just two more seconds. When it comes to the law on extra profit, he comes himself and becomes an antipropaganda to himself. We have warned that this law cannot be applied in this way. All together from the opposition, and even some ruling MPs have spoken of it, and it is not worth it. In the end, I think the Serbian Parliament is taking over the powers of what doesn't belong to it. In this case, it should be fenced against this decision, that this item of the agenda should be withdrawn from the debate, and that when a regular procedure is completed before the judicial authorities only then, if there are elements or conditions and if the Administrative Committee in this assembly says something on the subject, we talk about it. This is not like anything and this is a clear political farce, with a desire to continue the trial through the media in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11620	The word has a National MP Slobodan Pavlovic, and the next one registered for discussion is MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11621	Mrs. Micic, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, is certainly in line with both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that MPs can also request the appointment of an extraordinary session of parliament, which is now done on the basis of demands submitted by 126 MPs from the ruling DOS association. It's not even controversial and it doesn't bother you, of course. What bothers me, as well as some of the other MPs who spoke before me, is the agenda of today's session, which was also established on the basis of a proposal from 126 MPs, who asked for an appointment. Don't mind me, but this agenda of this session looks like that folk's -- while the house burns the grandmother's hair on the wool. Why do I think that? There's a lot of reasons, and two of them are basic. First, no proposed agenda item of its importance, in its own importance, requires an emergency or extraordinary procedure, a team before the regular session of our assembly will be held for 10, 15 days, unless it is a proposal to confiscate the immunity of the MP and head of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Prof. Dr. Banet Ivković and colleagues from the Serbian Unity Party, a question of the greatest national interest at this point, which threatens the functioning of parliament, endangers the exercise of DOS power or does not give God's functioning of our country. No, of course not. The reasons are different. There were many more reasons to put many other issues on the agenda of our parliament's 8th extraordinary session that rocked Serbia's political stage in the past two months, whose advocates were just the president and vice president of the Democratic Party of Serbia and the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the president of parliament, although he says he is not in the foundation. I can't separate that when he talks like the president of the assembly, and when he's vice president of the party, because it comes to the same thing. The issues were raised by many others, particularly the opposition party and the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party and others. Thirdly, which is, of course, the overall state of affairs, very bad and very difficult for us in the Republic, required the eighth extraordinary session with other issues, such as the state of separatism in Yugoslavia, such as the state of Kosovo and the non-compliance of the declaration adopted by this assembly, such as the pressures in registering for elections in Kosovo, such as non-compliance with the Constitution and the law, because both this and the Federal Assembly have passed many laws and many regulations devoid of any basis, corruption, bribery and involvement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, high officials of the MUP. I'm sure it deserved to be on the agenda before today. Business in Serbia doesn't work. Let me remind you that since September 2000, to this day, there has been a lagging of U.S. industrial production...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11622	Mr. Pavlovic, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11623	This is the agenda, and please don't interrupt. When my time is up, you take my word. The decline in production ranged from 3% to 15%, and from 1994 to 1999 we recorded constant growth, and in 2000 we had an increase in social products of as much as 11%. The decline in services has increased the number of unemployed from September to today by 40,000 and is now 765,000. That's not where I count the flag and the others who don't even sign up anymore. A huge increase in prices from 80 to 90% in Belgrade and a dramatic increase in the price of municipal services, and ultimately, the average salary of 5,000 dinars, and the lowest of 2,800, as well as the consumer basket of 11,500, speak enough about the situation between citizens and in the social and economic situation of workers in our republic. The request to confiscate the immunity of Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic, head of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, I think it is unfounded and that Professor Ivkovic and Dr. Canovic, who spoke here, made it clear that they were neither called for a hearing nor called for immunity. Then why are we putting it on? The reason is free. In fact, it is a classic case of continued persecution of political insinuators and MPs of opposition parties, especially when it comes to Professor Ivkovic, who is a senior official of the Socialist Party of Serbia, in order to replace the issues, so that citizens deal with it rather than with what I said earlier. There's no valid evidence. This is what we received at the meeting, and this is what a colleague from the Serbian Radical Party, Prof. Dr. Seselj, said, and this cannot be the basis at all for the removal of immunity from any MP, nor for these two. I want to remind you all of one more thing together. The criminal report and the fact that it was published in the paper came from that famous final budget bill for 2000. The law was under discussion, as you know, after a fierce criticism he had experienced, Prime Minister Djindjic and Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic withdrew the better law and said further research by budgetary inspectors or financial police would continue. It's been a few months, we don't know what the outcome is. The law did not appear before parliament again, but something else appeared. I read, it's probably one of you, a statement from the Deputy Finance Minister, I don't know what it's called, Dejan Popovic, that it's supposed to have been completed and that the applications were filed against all the ministers, as everyone allegedly made some mistakes and so on. It's the same logic. Now we're going to take off our immunity to all the former ministers and so on. So what I can say, and I haven't used the time yet, is that this debate of a political nature, directed against opposition and, above all, political indivisibles, and that this too will be, whether you admit it or not, is a terror of the majority of the minority, and it is certainly not a democratic act to which you are calling, so I call on you to withdraw this proposal in the absence of evidence, so when there is a basis to return Parliament to decision. Eight minutes and 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11624	It's neat. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic, and after that, MP Borisvoje Drakulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11625	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say to the public why we are discussing today and why this is listed as a part of the agenda. First of all, because the people are growing the SPS rating, and I'm going to put up with what you're going to laugh about, and there's that saying, "Who's the last one laughing... ". So, because of this growing rating, it's necessary to do something, and it's likely that, I would say current powers whose logistical support is the parliamentary majority, is starting to panic, and then what needs to be done, should be hit on that party and on its leaders. Of course, that the matter would not be personal, so that no one would understand that as parliament the DOS with Banet Ivkovic, we involved Dr Canovic in all of this, so that the matter would look principled. And what legal framework do we have to discuss here today? Let's tell the public that, too. In Article 77(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The constitution says: "Advise a MP who calls for immunity cannot, without the approval of the National Assembly, initiate a criminal procedure or another procedure in which a prison sentence can be imposed." Who asked, does the Administrative Board have proof of this, who sought and who claimed that Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic and Dr. Canovic called for immunity? They didn't, as they say, go and have that conversation under some investigative procedure where something like that would be sought. So if they did not call for immunity, what should the National Assembly decide? On the other hand, the Administrative Committee is urging us not to apply immunity to the MP, referring to Article 77(5). The constitution of Serbia, which reads: "The National Assembly can decide to apply immunity". And the Governing Board says - you MPs decide not to apply immunity. Let's see what we actually can do, why we plead to article 77 and what we have left, point 5 of the law or something else. And, of course, it's sad when I, who's on an educated profile as a master of technical science, have to talk about things that come out of law and that would have to be notoriety clear, before they come to us to the Members of the People to discuss them and to talk about them. So, what's this about? It is that the decisions of the Administrative Committee proposed here are based on the incorrect interpretation of constitutional norms, and that the procedural assumptions for a statement by the Administrative Committee and the National Assembly have not been met. One more thing to say, we need to agree that we would not only be a voting machine, which is a procedure, which is a process, which is a technology, and that's what fellow MPs have been talking about, which has to be implemented before it comes here to discuss it. Otherwise, we the Messengers of the people will look like the children's group playing the games of the Armenians, and they will say, "Whom shall ye say and whom shall we say?" And let them do with it as they please. So, I suggest, first, that this procedure be stopped and that the preceding application be made and the authentic interpretation of Article 47 be carried out. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which means that procedural assumptions are removed in terms of the MP's statement, whether or not he is calling for his immunity. Secondly, before the next statement, let us adopt here a methodology or procedure that must be met and acted upon by the Administrative Committee before it comes to us to discuss it. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11626	The word has a folk MP, Borisvoje Drakulovic, and after that, MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11627	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to say something other than what has been said so far. It's been said a lot, and I wouldn't repeat myself for the simple reason that everyone who spoke precisely and precisely knows what this is about. I'm going to light up one angle, try the same situation you're talking about here. I come from part of Serbia, i.e. Vojvodina, nearer to the north of Backa, where the Serb people are actually minority people, where at the time of the call of the president of the municipality, because there can never be a Serbian president of the municipality there, there is an automatic arrest or detention. Then we don't need to discuss immunity and nothing, because most of it is there, ready to pay, I suppose, the votes of the national minorities given to DOS. For this reason alone, I am saying this because we have experienced it and you have experienced it in the Vojvodina Assembly, where most of it is what it is, where the percentage of the Serb population is compared to the percentage of the Vojvodina Assembly, so terrible that it hurts the heads that simply no decision can be made, and that national minorities do not take advantage and hope, and I regret that this will happen, to decide on the secession of Vojvodina from Serbia. This is an extended topic, but the truth is also like this. I'm saying this to protect the people, not to get into a situation one moment through your regionalization that the 1974 Constitution is terribly good at what you're preparing for us. Those of us who live there, we have experienced and had to know the Hungarian language necessarily to speak so that we could get a job at the most primitive job, I don't underestimate anyone, say, a conductor, a porter, a courier, and I don't know what. If you're preparing everything for us right now, and it's getting ready, I feel it, because it's already there, and the judges are other nationalities, the investigative also, the president of the municipality, too, anyone that doesn't cause replication, but I don't care at the end of the day and let it be a replica, but we'll say it in that argument, and why don't we say it anyway? The resistance movement, the famous one, which someone is forming, and who, our own Chancellor Djindjic, via Kasa, calls mainly Serbian thieves. My God, the Hungarian thief is gone. So, he calls mainly Serbian thieves, and he has to arrest them in all order, but a hundred acres across the border and 100 acres on this side of the border, that's not even to be touched, because the Deputy Prime Minister is protected "as a white bear", as they say in my village. So, you know, I'm telling you in principle, let's think about what we do with immunity, how we do it in a party. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11628	The word has a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11629	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really can't believe what we've been discussing here for almost three hours, we've been discussing the decision of the Administrative Committee, to propose to the Assembly not to establish immunity for people who haven't even called for that immunity. That would be just like what Bane Ivkovic would say now - I don't want to drink whiskey, and the Management Board says - Bane Ivkovic can't drink whiskey. Unbelievable. And the Management Board makes decisions based on some kind of documentation, makes decisions without a solution to conduct an investigation, makes decisions at the request of the DOS political commissioner. Don't establish immunity when a man doesn't call on him, it's nebulosis. Elimination of immunity when a man calls for immunity is something that could possibly be in the jurisdiction of the Administrative Board, based on the Constitution of this Republic. However, political persecution is the basis of your policy, what you fail and cannot do on a business plan and any other plan, you make up for the persecution of political opponents. Not only were Mrs Ivkovic and Canovic on the Committee's agenda. And I was, too, and I don't know if the board has lifted my immunity, or if he's told the Assembly to lift it for me, but it's an incredible thing to do and how immunity is lifted. So couldn't any of the members of that committee have asked themselves or wondered - why after eight years, didn't anyone ask themselves - if the MUP had filed a report, or if the MUP had rejected the application, and they would have told him - the MUP rejected the application. Did anyone ask themselves if the prosecution rejected the application, so they would say yes, it rejected it. Well, if he asked -- if the other prosecution had rejected the application, they would have also told him it had been rejected. E, on the basis of a private lawsuit, after eight years, at the address of the DOS Political Commissioner, is being initiated by a private lawsuit, without a solution to conduct an investigation, not even on the Administrative Committee, and a decision is being taken, either on the withdrawal of immunity, or on the establishment, or on a proposal from the Assembly to prevent immunity from being established, or taken away. That's funny, that's really funny. But I'm proud, I'm proud when thieves call me a thief, when racketeeres call me an extortionist, my heart is so big that they had to open the door on the terrace to stop in this gym. Amazing things happen. The country's going down, the "grandmother combs the wool." They are discussing whether Bozidar Vucurovic is an extortioner - well, Bozidar Vucurovic can't even extort his money, which the state owes him, and God asks you how many more people in this country. According to a private lawsuit, after a misappropriation by the MUP, after two prosecutions have been dropped, it's amazing. And because of that, I know that these two processes are also mounted and political, that one is based on a document that hasn't even been passed through this assembly yet, that this other one of the grieving parents, which I totally understand and understand, but what you're doing, will one day break your head, as they are now breaking into the Socialists. And they thought they were irreplaceable, and they thought they'd stay in power most of the time, but they didn't. And now they're being taken with immunity. I am also proud that no member of the SRS and no MP has ever voted not to establish or confiscate any immunity, regardless of which political group he was from. You'll all get your turn. There are 20 people here against whom criminal charges have been filed and against whom proceedings are being conducted, none of them have come to this assembly's agenda. And if I were to do it tomorrow, for example. You filed 170 criminal charges, would all 170 of you here be discussing this assembly? It's really amazing. You bulldoze people, persecute political inexperience, and you think that this will distract the citizens of Serbia from what is holding them back, which is your transparency. Since you came to power, the only thing transparent in this country is the bills of citizens of Serbia, completely transparent. And that -- transparently, they didn't teach you well, phoneticly meant transparently. Your policy is transparent. Little children can see it already. Don't play court, this isn't court, this is the Assembly. We 250 need to decide on our colleagues, we need to separate the judiciary from the executive authority and from the legislative one, we need to protect the MPs, who represent the legislative authority, from the will and executive authority and from the will of the judicial authority, and from the will of the political parties, who are in power. Think about it, especially when people, but not once, have called for parliamentary immunity. You're taking away something they don't have. Unbelievable. It's rare for me to run out of words, but I've really lost my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11630	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11631	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is proposing to the MPs not to establish immunity for the two opposition MPs, thus not offering the necessary documentation and evidence, so that we can make sure that we really need to enable the judicial authorities to take action in the investigative and judicial proceedings. Of course, all of this is followed by a media hack in which people are declared guilty in advance and in which people have no chance of saying their word to in some way deny these accusations. It all looks like some past, known Broz's time and predetermined judgments. How can we make such an important decision without the necessary documentation and evidence? Should we take your word for it? The citizens of Serbia believed that it would be better for you, that it would be better to live, that the problem of Kosovo and Metohija would be solved, that the dispute with Montenegro would be resolved, that there would be an increase in production, and now they do not believe that in two years we will import seasonal labour, because it is already unserious and ridiculous. They believed that many problems and slowness in the judiciary would be solved, that the media would be open, that honey and milk would grow in Serbia. What did they get by believing your word, and now you're making us believe your word again? We got NATO forces on Serbian roads, layoff workers, drop in production, enormous cost of living.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11632	Mr. Stamenkovic, please move to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11633	The crime in the government, discussed by DSS Vice-President Dragan Marscanin, who was not notified by National Assembly President Dragan Marsican, and the president of the National Assembly really has no idea. The Serbian Radical Party has requested and submitted a written request, with valid documentation, with full documentation on the harmful, irregular and criminal actions of Ministers Batic and Mihajlovic, to discuss this, it has not come to the agenda. You don't need to run away from the debate. The National Assembly is a place to discuss everything, both pleasant and unpleasant. We are not running away from the fact that indeed MPs as citizens of Serbia, just like ministers, just like all public officials and bearers of other public functions, must account for the people, the court and the Assembly. But first, you have to convince us MPs to take away our colleagues' immunity, that they are truly guilty, that they have really done something that they need to respond to in court or in public court. I don't think there's a MP in this room who doesn't think this way and who isn't ready to vote for proven crime at any time not to establish immunity. But I think we're clouding some other problems with this debate. Let's until the beginning of the regular session of the National Assembly entertain the people, let's not discuss what's going on in Kosovo and Metohija, let's not discuss the list of people in Kosovo and Metohija, we don't discuss the announced collection of electricity and other needs of citizens, we don't discuss what's going on in Kosovo and Metohija, we don't discuss that the census of the population in Kosovo and Metohija will already create an ambience to say, there are so many Serbs and their right to go to elections or not to go out and those who voted is their right and those who didn't vote, that's also their right. So, to draw attention from an increasing number of unemployed workers, from growing misery, from a gradual loss of sovereignty. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on you not to respect the decision of the Administrative Committee and the proposal of the Committee, but to decide to leave immunity to the MPs, and this case does not go out of date, as we heard from Professor Dr Seselj, to wait for them as citizens, at the end of their mandates, if there are reasons, to attend the trial in private lawsuits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11634	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Kesejic, and after that, MP Dragan Marsican.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11635	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this proposal from the Administrative Committee on the Abduction of Immunities to Members of the People is not really a surprise. Most DOS violence continues. I have to remember on June 18, when it was really experimental to take immunity from the MPs in one legalistic way, that is, by bringing out the MPs from the National Assembly. Perhaps now the National Assembly, or DOS majority, wants to legalise the legality even more, so it will take away the immunity of the MPs and instead into the corridors, will take them to prisons. It's really not a big miracle, because we didn't expect any better. We've heard that it may be unnecessary to talk about taking away immunity. However, it is good for citizens to hear this, citizens who today expect to discuss existence, the difficult situation in the economy, social issues etc. and we are discussing the immunity of the Members of the People for whom it has not been established, and the Administrative Board does not give any argument that it is the MPs who really deserve to be taken away from them. Today we have a blockade on the roads of the Vojvodina, first of all, not just because of the judicial authorities but because of one brain, which has promised in the election campaign one thing, and now it does the other. Therefore, pulling the parallel between this proposal by the Administrative Committee is nothing but the continuation of a cataclysm in which Serbia is presently located. I cannot understand that this is not political rematch against political opponents, but as political enemies. Hence, we do not have in this paper, which has been delivered by the Administrative Board, any valid and valid explanation, so that MPs can vote and make any decision with their own understanding. That is why the fact and evidence is that the majority DOS coalition, which I have heard has fallen apart to some factions, which does not cheer me, because unfortunately, it will not be able to implement the promises made to citizens, will not be able to get those billions from donations, which they have promised to the citizens, and of course, they are now strefil and collateral serious accident, which can affect as an excuse for unfulfilled commitments to citizens who today, not only strike hunger because they want to preserve their piece of fire in the southern province of our country, but have brought citizens into a state of suicide to feed their families, to send their children to schools because of the high duties and duties that this DOS government has made. So instead of dealing with these things, and I have to go back to the seventh session, to invite clients who are subject to the Law on Extra Profit and Extra Property, to discuss these people, Dusan Mihajlovic, Nebojsa Covic, Vladan Batic, Joseph Kasi, etc. today we are discussing political enemies.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11636	Mr. Keseiæ, three hours ago we established the agenda and please talk about what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11637	Yes, we've established the agenda, but you've given us such material that we can speak exactly this way as I explain it. You don't want to hear the truth, and that's the biggest problem. I want to say that we need to talk about something else, not to put away political opponents who are willing to say here why we are opposed to Kasa's statement, which calls for internationalization of the autonomy of Vojvodina. That is why it is a crucial issue of today's political action in Serbia. We're discussing "political enemies" today, and we want that immunity to be taken away from them, to show the citizens, see, we made promises, we're going to put criminals in jail. However, no valid evidence has been received here by the National Assembly. In addition, I believe that today's decision by the National Assembly, by seizing immunity from the MPs, would give a signal to the judges, to the judicial authorities that they should be punished. So, to say, here you see, parliament has made a decision that you are guilty, they have taken away your immunity and you will, of course, have to be punished for more than five years. Up to 5 years, this congregation would be disgraced because it took away immunity, and the law cannot confiscate immunity unless it is assumed that by committing a crime it would be more than 5 years. Therefore, you yourself are already telling the judicial authorities what to do and how to treat the MPs you are taking away your immunity. That won't be the end of it. That is why, this principle that you stand for, because of the legality in which you have sworn, the National Assembly has opportunities, despite the proposal that it received from the Administrative Committee, to consider whether the MPs will be present tomorrow on that indictment bench, and above all the Serbian Government ministers who deserve it, and for whom we Serbian radicals have evidence, and I have them, and Mr. Martian, and you, but you do not want to bring it to the Assembly, but as a party manager, so in the highest service, besides the president of the state of Dr. Vojislav Kostunica, you are talking about some cultivarians, about crime. This is where MPs should know what you know. You weren't honest enough to tell us. Therefore, if you mind what we say, then surely the only measure can be a reminder, a exclusion, a withdrawal of immunity and all the repression that you are as a majority coalition are able to do. I therefore propose that this proposal be withdrawn, i.e. the return of this proposal to the Administrative Committee and that the National Assembly should not declare the withdrawal of the immunity of these MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11638	The People's MP Dragan Marsican has the word, followed by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11639	Here you are, MP Dragan the Martian.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11640	Thank you very much, Mr. Mircic, there's anything difficult to explain to you, so I'll leave it inexplicable, and I won't as my esteemed... ( Ambassador Mircic throws right away)...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11641	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11642	I will not, as my distinguished predecessor, make a parallel between the price of the sunflower and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, but I will try to look back at the the thesis that has been brought here and which are being called upon to the Constitution, and which is trying to challenge the possibility and the right of the National Assembly to discuss this, which is put on the agenda, the National Assembly of Statements. To appeal to the Constitution, it is best to read the Constitution, and I will take advantage of the opportunity to read a part of it here that speaks of this. This is Article 77, which has been mentioned several times today, in which, among other things, it reads: "The MP who calls for immunity cannot, without the approval of the National Assembly, initiate a criminal procedure or another procedure in which a prison sentence can be imposed." And the final position of Article 77: "The National Assembly may decide to apply immunity to the People's Parliament and if it is not called upon, when necessary for the purpose of fulfilling its function." I'm not quoting this part of article 77 that I'm going to make the opposite point of view that I'm going to make right now, and my position is next. Those are the facts we have. The investigating judge addressed the National Assembly, requesting that immunity be not applied to the MPs, but the Administrative Board is required, according to Article 67. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, to consider these questions and on this basis makes a proposal to the National Assembly to make this matter known. What I think can really remove certain misunderstandings, I think the Administrative Board has made a mistake and it is my suggestion that on future occasions - and for Mr. Vučurovic, a request has arrived from an investigative judge related to the crime of extortion - this kind of proposal will be prepared by, in accordance with Article 77. The Constitution, offer and propose to the National Assembly to declare the identification of immunity and the application of immunity. The National Assembly will make such a decision or make a decision that does not accept such a proposal. So this could have been done in today’s case, to propose, not as an attitude but as a part of the agenda, to apply immunity to the MPs we are talking about today, and the National Assembly to declare whether such immunity is in place or not. I think this, at least as far as I'm concerned, has cleared all the concerns about the legality and constitutionality of the proposal of the Administrative Committee and the legality and constitutionality of the decision that the National Assembly is about to make today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11643	The word has been made by MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group, the third announcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11644	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, my third announcement as president of the parliamentary group, I will use it to refut all of what Mr. Martian said. Exactly, his presentation shows how much specific volunteerism can lead us to lead the National Assembly and to shape the place and role of the highest body of the legislative authority within our legal order. The constitution declared the immunity of the MPs. Now the congregation can't establish that immunity. He already exists. The Assembly can in one case only, and against the will of the MP, if the MP allows himself to be arrested, put in prison, to conduct proceedings etc., and he does not call for immunity, against his will to establish his immunity and simply force him to get out of prison. The National Assembly can do that. There is nothing the National Assembly can establish when the Constitution has established it. On this particular case, we see what our basic problem is. Everyone allows himself to be a lawyer, to competently interpret legal standards, general legal principles, legal history, principles of parliamentaryism, principles of legal order, principles of law. It's one of the oldest sciences. The law is probably the oldest science. Not even a right to be underestimated, because if every amateur could be so competent to interpret legal principles, then the Law School shouldn't have any. In this case, we must take care of what is very important. It's the fact that someone is trying to prosecute the MPs. Of course, someone with constitutional and legal powers. We need to draw a conclusion, which is better for the legal order, that everyone can, when they think of it, knock on the messenger, bring him to court. The administrative authority, in the case of criminal prosecution, which is terrible, which is amazing, was done by the Socialists with the help of New Democracy, with a very important role of New Democracy as the perpetrator or as to the conduct of the criminal proceedings, whether it is prosecuted by a public prosecutor, whether it is prosecuted by a private suit. What's the greater evil? It is always more evil to allow administrative and judicial authorities to interfere with the work of parliament than to protect the MP from such prosecution. Parliament must be convinced, by the gravity of the crime and by the gravity of the evidence, that it really needs a member of its own to deliver to the judicial authority. No one here is trying to convince us, but a public prosecutor or an investigative judge is sending us in one or two sentences, listed a member of the criminal law, and give it to us. Where's he gonna do that? There's nowhere like that in a civilized world. You want to form such a practice with us. Instead of being convinced here for hours, to carry out evidence, to carry out a little preliminary trial. Look at the case of the American Congress -- for the American president to be convicted, because he has immunity, first the Senate has to judge him. The first trial is the Senate trial, and only after that can it be made available to regular courts, if the Senate finds him guilty, and can he go to jail. That's the essence of immunity. You're here playing with that immunity. But aside from that. So far, experience has shown that in such cases political trials and political confiscation of immunity, the government has always had damage, and always the persecuted has had political benefits, if it squeezes the loop and endures all that power imposes upon it. On the other hand, we need to keep in mind the situation in our judiciary, the situation in society at all. First, the situation in the judiciary is worse than it's ever been. You need proof. Here's your proof - a certain glass shot with eight bullets from Peter Panic. There was an APB after him, and he fled abroad. As soon as the government changed, the Glasses came back here and walked freely on Surcin, under the protection of the government, and no proceedings were conducted. That's one piece of evidence. The second proof is Stanko Sobotić - Cane. (A voice from the O.R.: Ah, Burgia? I'm not going to say anything to Burgia this time. I'm just getting the material ready. You who don't know, say it so bravely, and I see some here who are worried about mentioning the brothers of Burgius. So, take care. You don't object to me, but to some of your party heads. Do we have a judicial system? We don't. Only political opponents are being prosecuted here. When we asked the Federal Assembly to examine the circumstances and facts related to the kidnapping and possibly the murder of Ivan Stambolic, it was rejected. Now we'll see if this committee is rejected here. Why are you afraid? The courts are powerless. They were once powerless, now they're powerless. Let's see what's behind it. Let's see around Pavel Bulatovic, let's see about many other murders, probably behind which is a political background. Let's see who's protecting it, who's hiding it. Let's see the case of Momira Gavrilovic. Why hasn't that been discovered? Why didn't the interior minister resign because he didn't expose the circumstances of Milorad Miskovic's abduction, and how was Dusan Spasojevic released from prison two or three days ago? He was first told that he was arrested in France, so delivered, so suspected of kidnapping Milorad Miskovic, etc. Well, the role of the Home Secretary's brother, etc. We have a whole series of questions to discuss. Unfortunately, we don't have an emergency session. It'll be on the agenda at the regular session. The material for Dusan Mihajlovic is a hundred densely complex sides of the text, so we'll see all that. I wouldn't be burdening you with the details right now. But I appeal to you once again -- to establish certain principles that will suit you while you're in power, and which will especially suit you when you're in opposition tomorrow, that someone can't prosecute you because he doesn't love you, because you're his political opponents, but only when criminal prosecution is necessary, necessary, irreplaceable, when he has nowhere to go, but he has to go. And not like this, that some tragic scenes happen to the public, that immunity is taken away from the doctor because, who knows what the unfortunate circumstances, he's been subjected to a patient, or to a nebulous accusation of abuse of position, and there's no evidence that it's due to the acquisition of personal or group benefits. It's pointless stuff. Or, a private lawsuit, which you mentioned about Vukurovic. She's been running a civil lawsuit with some woman for nine years, and now she's remembered to file a criminal case. Nine years of civil litigation. What does that mean? Make sure everything in this world goes away. Nothing's forever. Nobody burned until dawn. As you sow, so will you reap. The way you behave while you're in power, that's how you'll eat your oatmeal later when you're an opposition. As far as Serbian radicals are concerned, we have made sure that we do not fall short of these principles. No opposition MP has ever been taken from immunity, although there was a reason. It was for Casa. Remember that affair - 15 hectares of state country was robbed in Subotica and prescribed on behalf of its daughter. It's totally illegal, like a whole series of other cases. As for Mr. Marsican and his charges against the SRS, Mr. Martian, we were in the Serbian government for about two and a half years. There's been a war, a rebuilding of the earth. Of course, the government was not successful in assessing the people. I don't interfere with the national court. The people estimate she was not successful, and the people are right. But, Mr. Martian, your party has brought Nenad Canka to the post of President of the Vojvodina Assembly. Had it not been for your party and your presidential candidate, Kostunica, Nenad Canak would never have been president of the Vojvodina Assembly. Now that you're in power, the folks come and measure their former estates. Not only are they preparing demands to return these properties, but they are even paying for 50 years of fruiting on these properties. (President: Time. ) You brought Djindjic as Prime Minister and Gus Knezevic as Minister of Education, etc. You know, the people will appreciate that responsibility and that guilt. Our people have been politically punished for being in a coalition with the Socialists in the first place. And how only the people of you will politically punish you for being with Kas in the coalition, with Nenad Canka, with Dragan Veselinov, with Milet Isakov, with Zoran Djindjic, with Dusan Mihajlovic, with Zarko Korac, with Goran Svilanovic etc. I hope it's just a political punishment. (Božidar Vucurovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11645	There's no replica. He didn't hear and he wasn't in the O.R. (Božidar Vucurovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) It appears for the replica immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11646	Right on line, MP Dragan Marsicani.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11647	It's about one serious question. It is a pity that we turn every opportunity for a serious debate into something that has nothing to do with a serious debate in parliament. I'll just thank Mr. Seselj for calling me an amateur. I really am an amateur, considering I'm an economist, and I'm talking about the Constitution. In that sense, you're right. But no less amateur than when you, as a doctor in the field of defence and social self-defense, discuss the Constitution or the sorghum, or any other topic here on the agenda. It is, however, a former professor of Pristina and Belgrade University. But it's about having one really serious question here. We have something that represents the letter of the law, which represents the letter of the Constitution, and we cannot interpret it on an arbitrary basis. It is simply enough to open the Constitution, to read the final position of Article 77 and to conclude who is right. It's not worth outwitting here in any other way. As far as responsibility is concerned, I am now speaking as vice president of the Democratic Party of Serbia, you must separate and at least try. It's not that hard for your intellectual abilities. Indeed, then, the people evaluate everyone’s political action and the people’s court cannot be challenged. It's the choices that make all the political misunderstandings definitely clear. You responded to the people in the elections and you received a response from the people for being involved with the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Yugoslav United Left, participating in the government, which you had previously supported Milosevic's regime and you were punished for it in the elections. We don't really talk about it here today. This is a replica, and we are talking about some other kind of responsibility and opportunity for the National Assembly to allow judicial authorities and investigative authorities to do their job. The less things like that get here, the better. I, when it comes to the same principle of everything, most sincerely argue that if I come into such a problem, in which some other MPs will come, that the National Assembly in the same way as my immunity may be declared. That's something I'm gonna stick to. Did you stick to it while you were in power of that principle or for the respect of such principles not until today, so for the future, that's the second, but once again we and you answer to the citizens and the elections will nevertheless determine your actions as the opposition party in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11648	The word has a folk MP Dragan Colic, and the next is MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11649	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the political, economic and social situation in Serbia is such that this assembly requires more serious topics and solves those problems that affect the people. The same people, his representatives, chose us to do this difficult and responsible job. Although the material we have received is insufficient to determine through the debate what is the fault of our colleagues, there is a feeling that there is a desire for the authorities to prosecute opposition MPs, which uses an extremely bad situation in the judiciary, of which independence has nothing. Perhaps never before through the history of the Serbian people has there been a more dependent judiciary that must be trampled by both the Constitution and the laws of this country and must trample on the honour and dignity of the Serbian court in order to get in touch with the executive authority, DOS officials. The people choose their MPs to control the executive and judicial authority in the highest legislative body of this country and to prevent the self-will of those who currently have authority and who are willing to be tempted and to use that authority with their personal motives. It wasn't long ago when similar things happened, when at night sessions they seized immunity from the leaders of the Serbian Radical Party, when literally they were persecuted by prominent national fighters such as Dr Vojislav Seselj and Tomislav Nikolic and others, and persecuted by the fuck-a-want hands of silversmiths. The Constitution and the law of this land were trampled, and so it seems, even now that you are DOS authorities. People are kidnapped from prison without a decision and a court solution, persecutions by political opponents are being committed, laws are being broken...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11650	Mr. Colic, please move within the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11651	The parliament has not been given sufficient arguments to force me, MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, to vote to remove immunity from our counterparts Canovic and Ivkovic. Why does the haste not wait for their term to expire and then act painlessly according to the law without the immunity of the messengers of the people? Countless examples were that this immunity was irrevocably violated by the will of individuals. A few months ago, although I showed the workers of the MUP the parliamentary ID, I was brought into the Ministry of Interior of Smedereva only because I claimed DOS was the worst, which is already anachronous and what Serbian citizens already feel and know. I am arrested as a folk MP, not arrested by those criminals who are at the top of the government, who, as Dusan Mihajlovic, are handling the Ministry of Interior and the fight against crime....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11652	Mr. Cholic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11653	They're untouchable to the law, because they're the government at the moment. I have no reason to doubt what Vojislav Kostunica claims, that there is a crime in the DOS, and that is confirmed by the president of the Assembly, Mr. Martian, because this is one of the key reasons and motives for the DOS collapse. I will not vote to take immunity from fellow MPs, as it has not been discussed traffic and other incidents caused by Cedomir Jovanovic. One justice for him and one justice for ordinary mortals. Justice and the laws of this country must be the same for all. Form Serbia's Constitutional Court that at least people have the opportunity to appeal to higher courts for the wrong done. Let justice be made available to all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11654	The word has a folk envoy Dragan Markovic, followed by MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11655	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not go out for this pay phone to defend Mr Branislav Ivkovic or Dr Canovic, but I only wanted to ask a few questions to the ruling majority, because I see they are not the same arches when it comes to opposition and position. I wanted to ask if it was a priority in this assembly to discuss who took off the search warrant for Hashim Thaci and invited him to come to Belgrade, and we know that Hashim Thaci is a terrorist and that he killed the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. I wanted to ask if it was a crime, I'm not a lawyer, that there are Cypriot terrorists released from Serbian prisons, and that there are 1,300 missing in the last year. I wanted to ask if it was a crime or a political fraud... (President: Mr. Markovic, please speak within the subject. This is my explanation and I apologize for getting off on the wrong foot. Is it a crime or a political fraud when a decision is made to make the price of sunflowers is 15.75 dinars, and to say this - it is enough for you farmers to have the price of sunflowers as 12.00 dinars. It is automatically going to destroy the little business that works well in Serbia and Yugoslavia and that next year none of these producers sow a sunflower and that only individuals benefit from it, as sugars do not work in Serbia. Also, whether it's a political fraud or a crime when the election campaign promises, specifically in Kragujevac that there will be an increase in production, that "Pezo" will come, that "Reno" will come without respecting it...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11656	Mr. Markovic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11657	I think this government has double arches. Why is it not today the issue of Mr. Krizan's cement director, who has been charged with criminal charges, and directly from the government has been ordered by an investigative judge to throw the case in the basket. Also, why is it not a part of the agenda today, and it should be, the trust of the interior minister, because Mr. Home Secretary is also making a crime, because he is innocent until proven guilty in the court proceedings, and he cannot in advance say that Serbs are genocide people and that in these false graves (I no longer know how many tombs Mr. Mihajlovic invented) the corpses of Albanians, Muslims, Croats, and that the crimes were committed by Serbs. We know that experts and pathologists in Kosovo and Metohija said it takes at least 7 to 20 years to identify the corpses. I think it's a felony. Gentlemen, this is a national issue. This item of the agenda was to be discussed by this assembly, too, gentlemen, whether it is a crime by law or not. But we all said that the former government ruled regulations and now we want the returnees, the Yugoslavs and Serbs who have been abroad for years, to return to Serbia and start some production. How to start production when this new government rules and no private entrepreneur can create a plan that will last for several months. Also, gentlemen, I think it's a political scam when the election campaign is talking, and for the last four years, all of you who have high electricity bills are thrown into the basket, and today the current is mathematically over 300%...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11658	Mr. Markovic, I give you a second warning. Please move on to what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11659	I think this subject is very important, but since you've given me a second warning, I won't speak again.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11660	The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic, followed by MP Stevan Z. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11661	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, I did not go out for a pay phone to defend people, or MPs who today are proposed to abolish immunity, I did not go out to defend the president of my parliamentary group, Dr Branislav Ivkovic, they will defend themselves if they have anything to defend themselves. It's easy to defend yourself if there's no evidence. I have come out in principle, as I have come out for every MP here against whom there is no evidence, but only for the sake of naked political elimination requires the abolition of immunity and to be given to courts to judge by order, and it is known how and in what way. So what's being put in today and what's being sought is naked political elimination, and that's political inexperience, except for some here, even they're not political opponents, they're political enemies. It needs all the problems that arise now, problems in the economy, problems on all sides, each other's arguments, and it should be put on the other side with a big sign in the paper that immunity is lifted and that criminal proceedings against Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic or against Dr. Canovic should be conducted. And it's put on an emergency session with so many problems and despite so many important issues, it's put on an emergency session, simply to cover up other problems. Is it so important and urgent to put on an emergency session, 15 days before the regular session? It is also clear to those who have not entered this assembly and who are not politically written that it is only a struggle and in any way the elimination of political inexperiences and political opponents. We've got the material in a few rows. Is it possible to decide from these few rows of material here whether to vote for it or not? Of course he can't. No evidence of guilt, simply, has occurred to someone, and on orders and to that prosecutor to initiate criminal proceedings to hand him over to the court and to seek the removal of immunity. I wonder -- that book of the People's MP, which is why they're giving copies of the Constitution on the immunity of the MPs. It doesn't have to stand, it needs to be erased. Tomorrow someone will come to mind when they see an SPS MP or another opposition MP crossing the street past the pedestrian crossing to initiate a criminal procedure or a misdemeanor procedure and to take away his immunity. That's where we came in today. So, just naked elimination and nothing more. It is important to humiliate a political opponent to this extent or to make him feel bad so that the people have fun with something. People have had enough of this kind of fun. The people have to think about what they're going to go into the store tomorrow, how they're going to buy groceries that are five or six times more expensive, but today they're shaking what their kid is going to do tomorrow and with what request he's going to come in and bring out of school, which will impose new obligations on him that are five or six times more expensive than they were last year. That's what he's thinking, not some conjecture and some guilt-free guilt. For that reason, I think we should really talk here as people, eliminate this hatred: simply, the cry of hatred is growing in this Serbia. This home here and we are the most responsible for eliminating it. You don't know what hate can bring tomorrow. The one who does this and acts this way simply causes hatred for himself. Let's eliminate it, let's talk as people about every job and all the actions of all of us, to avoid it tomorrow, because the spark, the spark that comes out of this can only bring evil. Let's not play with that. If we're responsible, let's do it responsibly. I suggest, if we cannot remove this item from the agenda right now, we should act as responsible MPs and simply not accept this kind of material that has been sent to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11662	The People's MP Stevan Guduric has the word, followed by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11663	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have here today as the first point to talk about whether or not immunity will be given to MPs, Professor Branislav Ivkovic and Dr. Canovic. It's just not worth us MPs, and neither is the people in Serbia to distract you with these points of the agenda, because it won't cloud your eyes and that they think the better life you promised in the election campaign has arrived. They see some different life. Everything, including this session, started with a newspaper because it wasn't the first time we heard on television or read in the press, then the other day when we received a call for a session and a total of you and the newspaper serve to make previous satanization, artillery preparations, and then after some other things happened. You had a simpler way, you applied it in one case, to get rid of all this. The days you arrested Mr. Seselj's jeep, several days around the Assembly itself, were more uniform than in a civilian dressed. You could have used what you later applied to President Milosevic to arrest us all on that day, to make a decision here, to remove all our immunity and finish our work, you wouldn't have anyone to write to you, you would have ended it in one moment. You wouldn't have this kind of trouble and trouble to deal with us all the time and you could rule happily and happily and, truthfully, briefly. I really didn't know, today I hear here in the Assembly that when we elected the president of the assembly that we chose him for a few hours a day. I can't understand that anyone can say - I said this like this, not that one. Everything I'm saying here, I'm talking like Stevan G. Guduric, who lives in Beocino, and I'm also talking like Stevan G. Guduric, a folk MP. I also speak as Stevan Ž. Gudurić a member of some SPS leadership, and as Stevan Ž. Gudurić, a MP and all this is coming to me, what I'm saying. I can't say I'm saying this like this, it doesn't count as this, and it doesn't count as this. Or someone was teaching us wrong, so we didn't realize how it was going. I didn't understand, Mr. Martian, why you gave Mr. Colic a warning when he presented in his discussion your party's position to ask Mr. Mihajlovic. The world will be engulfed if the Americans overwrite what you're applying to Dragan the Martian, because he'll be the one at the Pentagon and the one at the mall will go under arrest, which they didn't put people away before they bombed them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11664	The word has a folk MP Goran Cvetanovic, followed by Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11665	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected after arguments against the Republic government, especially by the Democratic Party of Serbia that it would be a much more serious agenda. But apparently, the President of the Assembly, as always, has some of his own interesting spheres, so he put on the agenda the trust of a specialist doctor, to discuss his immunity, so that, given that such a agenda is, as usual, a brief and concise one, I will pay attention to the people's MP who is my colleague and whose vote of confidence. First of all, you all know that the goal of every healthcare professional, a doctor, is to act primarily preventively in medicine, not to get sick and organize activities on the security and protection of the health of the people. We all know what the medical condition is, how inadequate medical equipment is, we don't have enough medications, so the current health care works exclusively thanks to the high moral, ethical integrity of most doctors, healthcare professionals. If we had passed much better laws and respected the SRS programme, a medical chamber would have been introduced in Serbia by now, as well as anywhere in the world where medicine has been developed at a high level, so that the medical chamber would already be obliged to form an appropriate court of honor, as well as an ethical committee, in order to solve any individual mistakes by doctors. The medical chamber, which would be independent primarily of power, would be autonomous, where appropriate ethical principles would be applied in practice. This way, without the insight into medical documentation, without judicial expertise, the unconsciousness of experts in the field of judicial medicine, MPs certainly cannot know that there has been an undesirable and tragic outcome, which could have arisen for several reasons, perhaps because of genetic predisposition, due to a difficult picture that may be due to incurable diseases, and perhaps due to inadequate treatment. In any case, there have been, unfortunately, unwanted consequences, so we have heard that the trial on these grounds has already been completed, that the arguments of judicial expertise have already been made, so that in any case, it is inadequate in a private lawsuit, because someone has sympathy for someone or for some political basis, that we solve this situation. In any case, I'm sure all the MPs of the SRS, I suppose, and those people who belong to the doctor's profession, certainly can't vote for immunity to be taken away from one doctor, because I'm sure each of the doctors provides all their knowledge and skills, to provide the most poor medical assistance in these difficult situations where health care is presently located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11666	The word has a national emissary, Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11667	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to the floor, not to say something new, but I must say as a man, as a MP, to express one of my general views -- never in this assembly, until my term of office, I will not vote to abolish any MP's immunity, not just an SPS or an SRS MP, therefore, to the opposition, but to anyone, even if he is from DOS or DSS, and any other party, because it seems to me that we, as serious people, have to pay attention to that institution, in fact, to the attention that comes from the trust that we received from the citizens. But there are at least fifteen thousand votes behind each of us. On the other hand, I am also fully convinced that this assembly of MPs, no matter what political group they belong to, that these are people who cannot commit such crimes for which immunity is sought, especially those acts for which an emergency procedure is required or who are punishable with more than five years in prison. What I'm trying to say is, I don't think there's any objective, I'd say rational, the reason why he's sitting here talking at an emergency session. We could have talked about it at previous regular sessions, we could have at future regular sessions, but it seems to me that the whole issue is deplaced, because, a reasonable man, and I think the citizens who listen to this debate, can ask the question -- then why is there even immunity, if this is the case, in a hurry and with a scrupulous explanation of the one who seeks an end to immunity can end that immunity? I am simply disappointed with the explanation, i.e. at the request, because it simply seems to me that neither of you MPs can know what the real reasons are to abolish the immunity of the ambassadors, Professor Branislav Ivkovic and Dr Canovic. One single line of reasoning, and neither do I, as party friend Banet Ivković, know what this is really about. How are you, who are not in the SPS, going to know what this is about, or how will the citizens know? Wasn't it the one who asked for the removal of immunity that could explain at least one side, to list the possible crimes committed by Dr Branislav Ivkovic, so that here, as reasonable people, we get the whole situation out and say, yes, that is, there is reason to abolish immunity. Or, please, for me, it's the highlight of absurdity if you're looking for an end to immunity to one doctor, a doctor who did what he did, all to save a life, and it happened, unfortunately, the opposite. The explanation that it has thus put people's health and lives at risk, in my opinion, simply does not stand, because obviously in this Parliament, and also in this past time, as DOS government, we do not act in certain situations in principle. And is there anyone in this world that has threatened the lives or health of people more than Javier Solana, Secretary General of the NATO Pact, who, besides, comes to this country and walks freely, and that he, and many others, has been convicted of war crimes in this country? What kind of immunity does this Mr. Javier Solana have, and similar to him? Can we, as citizens, and as people, trust in the judicial system that acts this way, when some magic procedure (I don't understand much about this legal matter) abolish judgments to allow the arrival of French President Jacques Shirak? Is there any crime here, is there any responsibility, who asks for an end to this gentleman's immunity, or who later gave it to them? So these are these questions that simply stand as logical, as common sense, without any particular knowledge of legal matter. Professor Vojislav Seselj was great at talking about it, I wouldn't repeat it, actually, maybe I can't repeat it, since it's not a matter I know well enough, but I feel like things are politicizing anyway, without a continual need. For me, as a man who belongs to the SPS, there are a bit of a clear reason why the motionary, the Administrative Committee, who says - we are abolishing Branislav Ivkovic's immunity, but I can't understand why they didn't at least invite him to the board, that he himself pleads, to say - people, I did it, or I didn't do this, this is unfounded, etc. Then only one conclusion can be drawn from this - that Professor Branislav Ivkovic is a man who is probably the most popular socialist in Serbia at the moment, in fact, the one who affects DOS's ruling furniture, and now it's one way to assume that his immunity is lifted, so that faster -- we better get some procedures that would make him as a person and our party disabling in public. So, I may not be right about that, but the logic of things and the logic of events that are being imposed in the work of this assembly about the debate on this subject, they just talk to me in favor. On the other hand, we are also going to talk these days about changes in the judiciary, changes in prosecutors, deputy prosecutors, the president of the courts -- is that also the reason why we are talking today about eliminating the immunity of two of our fellow MPs? Will future changes lead us to still press charges against Branislav Ivkovic or against Mr Canovic? Is there some kind of structure that I simply can't assume is true, but it's common sense if someone listens to all this to think about. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest you think about it carefully, regardless of which party you are in, which political group you belong to, and that you act simply and in principle. Do not vote on the proposal to remove immunity from any MP in this parliament, so do Mr Ivkovic and Canovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11668	The word is made by MP Zoran Radovanovic, and after a break, the first speaker is MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11669	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that the public of this Doss-occupied Serbia should know that 126 MPs from the DOS ranks had asked for an extraordinary session 15 days before the start of the regular session, with the following agenda: "Consent to Article 160." etc. "we have established the agenda" and the request is filed by 126 MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. South Serbia, the elections in Cosmet, production slightly larger than zero, never higher imports, never smaller exports, health prices rise, the economy completely collapsed, all of which were topics that were not important for an extraordinary session, it was important to discuss here today the immunity of two MPs, Professor Branislav Ivkovic and Dr Predrag Canovic. Mr Jovanovic, as head of one of the 176 DOS parliamentary groups, said today three important topics should be discussed -- the position of MPs, the attitude towards parliament and political responsibility. Let's get these three topics and talk about the arguments for today's debate. First of all, Bane Ivkovic and Dr Canovic did not seek parliamentary immunity. I don't see on what basis and on what basis is the member to discuss and vote on their immunity? Secondly, since both MPs have not been found in committing a criminal offence for which there has been a punishment of more than five years, or others other than political reasons to discuss their immunity today. Thirdly, you published in all the newspapers in Serbia, except at the Sports Journal, all newspapers today are the same, texts that you were not allowed to publish, and which the investigative judge himself said in a statement that it does not originate from the court, a complete text of criminal charges against Prof. Branislav Ivkovic. Since you're advocates of the rule of law, legalism, and I don't know what else, I'm asking - who answered in court for the fact that the criminal charges were found in the paper? Who made that application, and what did you, as the ruling majority, do about it? Fourth, you promised an independent judiciary. I think even little children laugh at your forms of an independent judiciary. Fifth, you promised the Constitutional Court. Who are these people going to complain to tomorrow if our decision today is already agreed on, it will not prove right, who will these MPs complain to when the Constitutional Court has been gone for a year? The sixth, these people, your fellow MPs, and tomorrow probably some others, for your political calculation, you accused them without arguments, and we're discussing it today, and we don't know what they did or when they did it. Seven, we're talking about the parliamentary immunity of two fellow MPs, and we're not talking about who took down the warrants and responsibility for 14 NATO leaders. Eight, even of that famous Roman variant of "cheese and games" you definitely gave up. The bread is expensive, and your political games who's guilty and who's not guilty have reached maximum -- there's corruption, there's no corruption, there's no bribes, there's no bribes. Therefore, these games of yours are definitely no longer of interest to this people. This people are asking to work, that's what you promised them. He's looking for the money you promised him, not to be like that movie, "The Marathons are running an honorary circle," in January you promised money, then in April, and since then it's been a year. In the end, what you did today at a special emergency session, I took it as a message to the people of the Soviet Union, because they didn't start from the leaders but from behind, to think about how they behave in the Assembly, and by not having Branislav Ivkovic, the head of the parliamentary group, this is how you attack, you probably send a message to us that we don't talk much. We'll talk a lot more and we'll tell you everything, and you're working against yourself. Thank you, colleagues, see how you vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11670	We'll continue the session at 3:30. The first speaker is Mr Branko Ruzic. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please let us determine the quorum for the remainder of the session. I find that we have a quorum to continue the work of the Assembly. We continue a unique search on the proposals of the Administrative Committee, so that the Serbian Parliament does not apply immunity to the MPs Dr Predrag Canovic and Professor Branislav Ivkovic. The People's MP Branko Ruzic has the word, followed by MP Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11672	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have the issue of the immunity of MPs Ivkovic and Ambassador Canovic, but first of all we need to get back to the genealogy of the problem itself. Since none of these MPs have called for immunity and indeed is not for anyone, and I think to you from DOS, it is clear that this item of the agenda has come into the agenda at all, since it does not comply with the Constitution, or Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, Serbian citizens are witnesses that even on April 13th, and what we heard today in the afternoon discussion, that on that day in all newspapers and that is very indicative, in all newspapers on the same day, the criminal report, which was addressed to Professor Branislav Ivkovic's address. As you know, and the citizens know well, Mr. Ivkovic did not call for immunity, and if the procedure is respected here, this agenda item could not possibly be at an extraordinary meeting of the Republika Srpska Assembly. It should be on a regular basis, so from October 1st and beyond. However, it is clear to all of us that DOS authorities do not follow the procedure, it itself is girlically called to legalism, it does not respect the Constitution, and it is long known to citizens. So, first of all, it's a political conflict with political inexperiences. An attack on the SPS parliamentary group president, the strongest opposition parties in Serbia, has been practically attacked by the SPS as well. I must also say that this is really minor compared to what the DOS government and DOS government did on June 28th this year, so on Vidovdan, when the executive government took over the jurisdiction of the judiciary, kidnapped the citizen Slobodan Milosevic and sent him to The Hague tribunal. I say minorly, given that both the constitutions, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitution of the SRJ were violated that day. However, due to principledness, of course, this issue is not minor and I believe, given that there is no basis for this item of the agenda to be on the agenda today, that the proposal should withdraw this proposal to remove the immunity of MPs Ivkovic and MP Canovic. However, if your main intensity was to hit the SPS, I think all citizens in Serbia understand that. So they realize it's not Branislav Ivkovic's issue personally, but the SPS issue. I must tell you that on the day you kidnapped and extradited Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague, our rating grew. Today, our ratings are also growing, and I really ask you to take away all SPS MPs' immunity, press charges, for whatever reason, and you'll help us, and you'll help the citizens understand what kind of authority it is. The act of voting itself, so whether or not we will take away immunity from MPs Ivkovic and Canovic, I consider the days to mean nothing, since neither of them, as I said, has called for immunity. What's been a trend since October 5th and so on, it's a fight against political inexperiences, that's what you're trying to do, that's what you're trying to do, that's what you're trying to distract people with stories about ex-government, socialists, radicals, and I don't know who. And that the people also do not see that the practical standard falls and that in the autumn that has already begun, of course, they will have nothing to live on. But citizens are not that naive. Last September, so it ends soon and a year after you came to power. You have promised towers and cities, however, the situation is very critical. The attempt to falsify the opposition from DOS ranks in citizens has not found a foothold, since they know that on the DOS wave and on the wave of the current SRJ president, the DOS has come to power. So that the DSS try to sort of separate itself from the DOS and play the opposition, it can pass at the DOS presidency, maybe even here in the Assembly, among you, but the citizens will never get through it. Be assured that citizens are very well aware that DOS is one whole, one party conglomerate is different... (President: Mr. Rose, I ask you to stick to the subject. I believe this is a topic, given that the explanation is needed to get into the heart and the essence of the problem of removing immunity from Ivkovic and Canovic. I'm sorry if anyone doesn't understand, but I'm going to entertain you for two minutes and 40 seconds with that story. So, just trying to figure out the opposition and the DOS itself, the citizens won't get away with it. What you are doing to us - the socialists, attacking now the leader of the SPS parliamentary group, Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivković, you will not be able to do that either, since Branislav Ivković SPS does not do it, nor do Ivica Dačić, Baki Angelkovic or Zivadin Jovanovic. The SPS are socialists. Unfortunately for you, there are many of us. And, unfortunately for you, the citizens see it very well. I must repeat, unfortunately for you, these Socialists will certainly earn the voter's attention and win first in this local -- November 4, and some of the next republican ones. Therefore, I repeat that the proposer of this agenda should crack this proposal, so as not to further, as young people say, embarrass the public and the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11673	The People's Messenger Zivko Selakovic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11674	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of my presentation, I would just like to underline that I was an MP in the past assembly. There were things like this, taking away parliamentary immunity from certain MPs. If I didn't repeat how it all went, we'd heard it here before. Having experience from the previous call, I'd like first of all to point out that we're not making the same mistakes, and we're constantly calling for that previous regime to work, and we're not. But people leave their heads without need, sometimes without need, no matter what regime or government brings it. I think that this is how this issue of taking parliamentary immunity for two MPs -- Dr Branislav Ivkovic and Dr Predrag Canovic -- came up, I don't think that went well. In particular, I believe that this is some sort of replacement thesis, that from the essential problems that citizens face daily and up to their throats are burdened to find some political process and draw attention to the citizens, at least for the time being, as some people think, and delay the key existential issues that need to be discussed. I especially want to underline it, because it's a little bit of a stick-up -- which is why it puts parliamentary immunity on the agenda, when both MPs didn't call for immunity. We, MPs at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, did not get a solution from the prosecutor's office, and we are in one particular way and conflicted with our MP from the Soviet Union, Dr Canovic -- not from the Administrative Committee, and we do not know what this is all about today. I believe that this is more of an attack on political insinuation, and primarily on opposition parties, which probably the positional authority thinks should be shown in one particular way by all these other MPs, that these are, minors, criminals, thieves, and that in the ruling coalition, honey and milk flow, and that all these people are fair. I'm not saying they're not fair. Most people in all parliamentary groups are fair, with the exception of a minor act that is likely to make mistakes, inadmissible mistakes affecting citizens' standards. I think this is about two things. First, it is necessary to strike all three political parties, to take immunity from certain MPs, and thereby to make certain corrections, and for example, that the issue of MP Bozidar Vučurovic was postponed for the second session, so that it would not be so striking, that all three opposition parties are being resolved by the issue of seizing immunity. I'm well aware of Dr. Predrag Canovic's case. That process appeared maybe five years ago. It was discussed by certain judicial authorities, and I think the prosecutor himself has given up prosecution, because there are no elements to prosecute, because no intentional error has been made. I feel very deeply sorry for this family, because I'm the father of three children myself, and I know how people who lost a child feel, because I've had a chance to see it in the neighborhood, with relatives. I don't blame them for what they did. But if this has already passed one particular procedure and it is known that this is the case that is happening, unfortunately, and that, if it has already come to today's session, it should have been presented differently, even in the presentation of the head of the DOS parliamentary group itself. He should have said why the process of confiscation of parliamentary immunity was launched for Dr Predrag Canovic. You know what it's like, our people don't get into details, facts. For example, it has been spreading the news, among other things, taking the parliamentary immunity of Dr Predrag Canovic, per member of it and so on. In my opinion, I'd like to say that there's a man of dubious morality in that party, etc. I think there's a little bit of impact here, because you all know that the reputation and ratings of the Soviet Union are growing slowly. Our relationship with the MPs, according to the chairman and the government, was correct. We're criticizing, etc. First of all, here I want to shake the ratings of the Soviet Union, and so does the leader of the SSJ. Pelevic. If that was an opinion, I think it went from the wrong point of view and not in this way, but in another way it should point to mistakes. You see, we've been having this debate all day. Controversial opinions have arisen. We need to take this off the agenda, think carefully, and when we get convincing assurances that these MPs should be tried, we will surely support it. This is what I'm saying and to underline that the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party does not want to protect people of suspicious morality, not to say the other. So we stand behind the fact that everyone should get what they deserve, but not hasty, not in a way that is not fitting to this congregation to make such a decision. Finally, there is one more thing I want to say, and it is about this topic, namely the protection of the Members of Parliament. I can say that, let's say, the ruling coalition and the police minister himself did not put himself in the protection of all other MPs as he, for example, advocates individuals. And I've been threatened, and I've been faxed a few times, and I've been talking to him for three months and I'm talking to him and I want you to believe that my family's been at risk, too. I've given an explanation and I, as a National MP, have not been accepted by the Minister of the Interior, I don't know why. Is there any chance that there might be an unwanted situation, that I might do something personal, and that I might be on the agenda? I don't think taking care of all MPs is the same way. Once again and I end up with this, I think we should take this decision off the agenda. I repeat, not wanting to defend these two MPs, if proven guilty and to face justice, or judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11675	The word is made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic, followed by the MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11676	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question that is really being raised in this debate is what is the main reason or cause of putting such a point on the agenda and in essence what is the motive of this debate at an extraordinary session of the Assembly. The main reason, as we have heard from the president, is the court's request for individual MPs, and in this case two MPs, to remove immunity to prove their guilt unhindered. On the other hand, when it is considered, the question of what is the crime committed by MPs, what extent, what content, what is it by nature? Is this a crime that they may have committed by nature such that, if, at this time and at this session, they do not remove immunity, the act becomes obsolete, or if there is a danger that MPs will leave Serbia's territory, or SRJ, in this case, so they will not be available to the authorities of prosecution or court, in the Taliban. What is the main reason for putting this point on the agenda is that it is obvious that the majority coalition wants in an extraordinary session to take the first step in their fight against crime, because all crime is contained in the previous government, and for a year there is not one single piece of evidence in the light of the day to prove or show where, and how and how this crime starts, but lately crime by the statements of some leaders within the DOS is also in their ranks, as they would say - the thugs in their own ranks. How can this be covered, all this media bickering? By launching an emergency session and the first item, Maltena, the agenda is a debate on the immunity of MPs. What's the background of this initiative? The background is that DOS wants to highlight certain figures first, to start a positive political campaign that will have logistics within DOS and that these personalities will eventually be theirs, if possible, coalition partners in some future period. That's what you gentlemen prepared for the SRS, so you saw that it's not going so easily, that it's impossible and that's your story whether Dr. Vojislav Seselj should be at the head of the SRS. That question has always been current before, and you're putting it on the agenda the moment you can't handle the SRS' argumentary attacks. That's why you're trying in another parliamentary group and you think you're going to find a favourable ground. The question is, will you ever come across the understanding and co-operation of such people that you're now removing immunity from, but the question of the questions that you need to answer here is what you want essentially. You want this assembly to build a courtroom, you want to transfer responsibility for the arrest of our fellow MPs equally or equally to all MPs. This is a precedent, gentlemen, for the first time in the history of this assembly to put such a question before the assembly, to impose the responsibility of each MP individually. The one whose immunity hasn't been removed or his immunity has been taken away, and he doesn't know what that means. We, to whom it was done, know what it means when an MP is taken away or removed. Then you're literally a shot-out person. No matter how much that power swears to democracy, no matter how much it swears to the judiciary, you still feel like you're left to mercy and mercy and that you're literally something that serves the ruling party, and in this case to the coalition, for being shot. No MP, no matter what MP group he belongs to, if he thinks real and smartly, will take that responsibility on himself. He will not take over for the simple reason that in earlier councils a certain one did, and most of the members of the New Democracy, prominent Zarko, Ivo Lolar Jokanovic. He still has to look down today before most of us radicals that he's been removing immunity from, and that's when it was explained that it's urgent, extremely necessary to remove immunity from Serbian radicals by an emergency procedure. I am personally puzzled by the statements of the president of this assembly. Sometimes it appears in one, sometimes in another, and sometimes in a third role, but I most sincerely advise you, Mr. Martian, no matter what kind of aggregate state you're in, you can only change volume and shape. Content, smell and bitter taste that leave your statements, perverse statements and how recognizable they are. Go out once, and say how and how, in which role you make certain statements. It's impossible for you to change your mind that you've changed your party's position in the past few days.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11677	Mr. Mircic, we can argue on some television show where you'd look very funny, but here in Parliament we're discussing what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11678	Besides your looks, a man can never be funny. Every man on the average looks beside you can be much more interesting. I don't know if anyone told you that reality, here I am telling you, don't be disappointed, there are different types of mirrors, you can set up a mirror. Therefore, the Assembly should consider whether each individual of us will vote in favour of such a proposal to take away our fellow MPs' immunity. One thing you can be sure of is that each of you will be held accountable. Now that you're allegedly protected by the coalition or by the party, leave those stories alone as people, you will meet with your colleagues sitting in these parliamentary benches, who need you to remove your immunity with your voice. Look how organized everything is. Literally, one feeling is imposed, and the moment the MPs are removed, the moment they are arrested, they will be sentenced in a brief procedure, and that no man who has had to allow himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11679	The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic, followed by MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11680	The Honorable Presidency, esteemed fellow MPs, today's tone of debate imposed by the Administrative Committee and the proposal by some of our colleagues from the DOS, to ask a fundamental question as soon as a criminal application or a request by the prosecutor to abolish immunity. What, then, is the Constitution and the immunity of the MPs established in it? Obviously, if someone from the opposition is called for immunity, there is no doubt that his immunity will be automatically lifted. I was at a session of one of the committees that discussed the abolition of the immunity of Dragan Tomic and Bora Draculaic, so the two Socialist Party MPs, and then on that committee, it was found necessary to make certain criteria, that there should be a way in which the committees will also take their views on the issue and how it will come before this assembly. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, you who have scheduled this extraordinary session with your signatures, and it is 126, so just one more than half of you, please consider once again whether you have made a mistake to insert the point of confiscation of immunity into the two teachers of the university at the four points of today's extraordinary session. Think about it, do you believe that ordinary mortals, so both your voters and our voters, based on the debate we're having today, will realize that in the whole story of the rise in crime that you led one night to the early dawn, that the two greatest Serbian criminals are two professors of the university. Do you think that because these are the two biggest Serbian criminals, we need an emergency procedure at an emergency session to end the immunity of two decent university professors. And that's what your Djelic will imagine, too, because this session is an extraordinary cost, you know how often the president of the Assembly scares us at the cost of a session. Here, 250 MPs must gather at this extraordinary session, so as to remove the immunity of the father of four children, Professor Ivkovic and Professor Dr Canovic, that in these ten days until the regular session they do not create some coup or cause some violent collapse of the state, or cause an even greater crime. Really, I don't think that's the case. I don't think anyone reasonable can believe that. After making so much noise about crime and about parts of the current government, when one party says there is crime, and the other says there is no, when the president of Yugoslavia says there is crime, and Mr. Prime Minister says there is no crime, you want to focus this point on the agenda and this debate to address the entire discussion of crime practically to the SAA and the SSJ. If this is adopted today, to remove Dr. Ivkovic's immunity and if he has not called on him, and by calling on a member of the Constitution to speak exactly the opposite of voting immunity, you will also commit a major moral violation. It should not be taken as a criterion that Dr Ivkovic is president of the parliamentary group, but I, however, fellow MPs, please think about it a little bit. You will not diminish Professor Ivkovic's reputation with this act, only once again, will you show how you view SPS MPs, as you view the opposition. Think about what you're doing with this act, think about it, that if you come into conflict with some of your leaders, one moment, they'll put you on the immunity list, and the other part, without us socialists, will certainly vote for you to take off your immunity. In April of the month, honourable fellow MPs, from this booth tried to decapitate our parliamentary group, to then raise the question of the responsibility of Prof. Dr. Ivkovic. You've stopped at it, and now it's in order to discourage your problems both with the MUP and the crime that is growing. You are playing, gentlemen, with a third party in parliament by the number of MPs, and indeed the third parliamentary party by the number of MPs must be artificially on the stage of shame, to declare our head of the parliamentary group a criminal, in order to bring the SPS into order, into crime. If you believe he's not a criminal, why are you asking for his immunity when he hasn't even called for him? There is no reason for the court to fear the immunity of Dr. Ivkovic. Do the court and the Administrative Committee think that the host, the type of Ivkovic, who has been saying since April that he will not be called to immunity, in front of the public of the whole country, that in some magical way now this Mr. Ivkovic will change his position. I'm sure he won't. Don't you trust a university professor so much, when he knows that his immunity is practically in the hands of DOS, you have an absolute majority and every moment you can do it during the night and during the day, and on Saturdays and Sundays, you can do it. You can gather yourself and remove his immunity. When it comes to Professor Canovic, do you think this parliament will succeed if every single person's criminal report comes to this assembly home and, on every criminal report, we remove the immunity of the MPs. Finally, please think again, honourable MPs, and press that button with you hateful color - red, against the abolition of our colleagues' immunities and save your honor and reputation for our great home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11681	The word is by MP Milos Nesovic, followed by MP Voja Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11682	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not go out for this pay phone so that Professor Branislav Ivkovic, not even Professor Canovic. I went out for this pay phone because I know especially Dr Branislav Ivkovic, and I met him ten years ago and I know his work results in Kosovo and Metohija, in order to build a university settlement for the national interest of the Republic of Serbia and retain as many professors as possible at the University of Pristina. I know his work during NATO bombing and I know his work at the university. Professor Ivkovic is behind a big, modeled ridge. I didn't go out to defend him, a team before he needed any defense, and he proved it himself when he didn't call for parliamentary immunity. I am concerned that the Administrative Committee on Immunity, Professor Branislav Ivkovic, discussed it in April of the month, and today, at an extraordinary session, we are discussing his immunity. We know that Branislav Ivkovic is a respected professor, that he is a parent, that he has three daughters and a son, and once again, that Branislav Ivkovic stands behind a hugely modeled beard in his profession. I can only understand, and I think so, that now a new political picture is being taken in Serbia, where the government is trying in one way to place the candidate, or the SPS people, and we know that Branislav Ivkovic is one man, not to say with the highest authority, but to say among the three or four people in the SPS with the highest authority. I would like to say a few more words, if the president of the Martians interrupts me, I think it will be a mistake of the DOS government, that in these two months, or 60 days, until the Assembly did not work, I have had the opportunity to talk to 80% of the people in the Kingdom municipality, and the King has 125,000 inhabitants and over 35,000 people from Kosovo and Metohija. There are many questions, issues of registration of people from Kosovo and Metohija - why registration, why is it not a list? There is a problem with the return of people to Kosovo and Metohija, because they fight over some barracks and sheds in the King, and probably in other parts of Serbia, that the economy doesn't work at all in the Kingdom, that everything cares, that people simply can't survive. I know and follow that Mr. SRJ, Mr. Kostunica, with his associates is visiting businesses, municipalities in Serbia, that Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Djindjic, is doing so, but I must tell you that usually the people say what the government likes to hear and that you don't have the right information, that we have much better information, although sometimes we too are deceived. Finally, I would ask all of our MPs not to do another shameful act, because from October 5th to today, according to my information, and according to your strategy to disarm the previous system, we have replaced over 20,000 very professional and capable people and that one reason is that our economy is not working, and I think it's time to end it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11683	The word has a National MP, Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11684	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the appointment of an extraordinary session of the Assembly with such a agenda has already been shown at the outset that it will be a political process. The session itself, that is, the beginning of the session, when there was a change in the agenda, i.e. a change in the order of the agenda, was even more confirmed, because someone was just trying to discuss the confiscation of immunity today. Why did the proposers not launch this agenda, i.e. put more important issues for the extraordinary session than the issue of immunity - Kosovo, elections in Kosovo, southern Serbia? It is known, we have pointed out several times, that NATO, bombing Serbia, has left the biggest consequences in southern Serbia, in the municipalities of Bujanovac and Vranje, that within a mile of the centre of Vranj, it is just impoverished uranium and that on several occasions we have raised the issue, but the Assembly has not. Why has DOS raised this issue right now, when it is known that since April of the month the Committee has made one such decision? The DOS is probably in crisis, so in this way it just wants to distract the Serbian public from problems that are both big and big. Why isn't the issue raised, the economic question, it's very present? That's why I think it's necessary, it was actually better that we agreed at the beginning and that this question was removed from the agenda -- first of all, there's no evidence, or any explanation for the people who are put here on the agenda, or to take away their immunity. Secondly, the legislative authority must protect immunity from the repressive measures of the executive authorities, i.e. the judicial authorities. It's probably going to be the turn and discussion that started before the first item of the agenda, but we'll talk about it tomorrow. Thirdly, in a situation like this, where there is no independent judiciary, discussing immunity is very difficult. And fourthly, as the main reason why this is a political process and that only political opponents are practically prosecuted, and this session has shown, because we have heard that there are other MPs who have been proposed to withdraw immunity, in this session, mostly opposition, but I wonder if a single DOS MP will be raised to question the withdrawal of immunity due to criminal acts, which are mentioned in the DOS itself? That is why I propose that there be significant attitudes and how important they are to take on certain responsibilities in considering this issue. Taking immunity from two university professors, as counterpart Cvetkovic mentioned earlier, is particularly important because it is two well-known and respected professors of Sabeograd and Kragujeva University, and then we wonder - where are you going, Serbia? More abuse of the function of the MP is the vote of one such decision on the withdrawal of immunity than we have in the material and in the explanation of the guilt of the MPs mentioned so far discussed. Third, it is far more difficult for this House to rule than the judgments of a municipal or county court, precisely because there is no other instance after this legislative body, because more instance than this Parliament does not exist. That is why I would mention in the end that if you decide to withdraw immunity from Mr. Ivkovic and Mr. Canovic, you will practically take away immunity from Serbia, taking immunity from Serbian democracy, which DOS swears on a daily basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11685	The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word, and after him is the Messenger Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11686	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, foreplay of the regular autumn session began with a agenda that was neither foreseen by the Rules of Procedure or by the way the extraordinary session was scheduled. All of this exists in the Rules of Procedure and I think the National Assembly Presidency should take care of it. If, for this country, Serbia and Yugoslavia are the most likely to discuss the immunity of MPs at an extraordinary meeting, in this case, two MPs, respected professors from opposition parties, it is not something this Serbia and Yugoslavia should take on the road. In these 300 days, DOS authorities have shown clearly what can and cannot. The problems you have within the ruling DOSN's coalition are the problems of opposition parties, these are the problems of the parties that are in power, or your conglomerate. Unfortunately, we're not gonna deal with your problems. These are your problems, and the problems of the opposition parties are to criticise the criticism that has been addressed by all three opposition parties was appropriate. The adoption of certain laws in the form of amendments and the addition of various legal solutions in the field of tax, fiscal policy and labour law has brought Serbia's citizens - what? Nothing. Inflation that is now more than 30%, an increase in industrial production that, said Mr. Prime Minister Djindjic in his January 26th exhibition that will be 5%, is monthly down over 2% and a perspective seen in the collection of not only poor people but also prominent citizens of this country in front of the containers. It's only one opening part of this session, where we discuss the immunity of the MPs. For the next session, there will be some new immunity of MPs who are from the opposition, who in any case can say in this way -- thank you, you put on the agenda something that is not a perspective, which should not be discussed at all. The removal of immunity on the grounds of suspicion of abuse of official positions of both MPs, without any particular argument, without a special report from the Administrative Committee, is, in some ways, really and funny. I don't know if any of us MPs know what this is about. In a public debate that has so far been on the People's MP, Dr Canovic was said to have committed some kind of a misdemeanor and that it was a private lawsuit case five years ago and an MP, Prof. Branislav Ivkovic, as a MP from the SPS, at this point I didn't even get the material and I don't even know what it was about. What's the abuse of official position? On suspicion? Based on which, maybe published texts in some kind of press that's one-brained. That can't be any doubt. That can't be abuse of official position. It's a crime for which someone needs to answer, and whoever needs to answer is in the executive power. At this moment in the Serbian Parliament, there is no legislative authority, the government is the executive government through the government of the Republic of Serbia, which has used this period of two months, as long as the Assembly has not worked, to take charge and through the regulations introduce a religion in primary schools of children who don't even know what religion is. Instead of discussing it, we're discussing removing immunity. Why is no proceedings initiated, or criminal proceedings interrupted, if it is already the basis for removing immunity against immunity, let's say the abolition of the enforcement procedure for the arrest of NATO aggressors who attacked, destroyed, destroyed and killed our children without the declaration of war. We are discussing the removal of immunity and we are not talking about criminals who are known to our people, to all our citizens. We deeply regret what happened to the American people, but Americans and other NATO followers need to understand that someone needs to answer for what's been destroyed. We need to discuss who burned down the Federal Assembly, one building that Hitler didn't even burn down. So let's talk about these people, remove immunity, conduct criminal proceedings, because that's what this Parliament is for. This parliament is about hearing the opinion of the opposition and the opinion of the people. But thank you for what you're doing because the opinion of the people who gave you the trust, after so many months, is such that the trust you had in the people has been lost. The people will say theirs. You're preparing for the election, but I have to tell you, we're preparing for the opening election, too. The Socialist Party must have cleaned up everything it shouldn't have been in the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party has now remained in its original principles, with clear and crystal-defined views.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11687	I ask you to discuss this at your congresses, not here in Parliament. Don't discuss the internal affairs of the SPS here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11688	It's about the fact that immunity should be established for some other people who could have lost that immunity here. Therefore, why, for example, no immunity was established for formation when we asked as Socialists to form a polling committee on 20 April to determine the truth about the arrest of SPS president and former Yugoslav Federal President Slobodan Milosevic. Therefore, surely what we are talking about is not only the basis of Bana Ivkovic and Canovic, but the whole complex. This is not a perspective for our country and our people. I think after all that you've brought here, you're just putting on a stronger reputation for the Socialist Party of Serbia, and I think that in that sense, and what you're doing right now, you're doing clearly against you. As your chairman of the Administrative Board has resigned as MP and as chairman of the Administrative Board, and you do the same - withdraw this proposal and be the real president of the Assembly. I have an even better proposal - since Serbs and Yugoslavs can only unite sports at this time, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, let us congratulate the volleyball players of Yugoslavia in the first place in Europe and I call on the President of the Assembly to interrupt this session and invite all MPs to go and congratulate our volleyball players at 17.00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11689	We could've done that if you'd used your time more rationally, that you'd discussed things more briefly. I give the word to Ambassador Milos Lukic. Did you seriously suggest this session break-up?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11690	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11691	I didn't think it was serious, but if that's how I have to put this proposal to the vote. Before Mr Lukic comes for a pay phone, I would like to put on a motion to interrupt the session of the National Assembly and allow the MPs who want to join the citizens who have come out to welcome our volleyball players. Please state by voting on this proposal. 61, against 72, abstentions 8, did not vote 39, a total of 180 MPs were present. I find the proposal not accepted. We're going back to work. The People's Messenger Milos Lukic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the People, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11692	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, during today's session, it is obvious that the discussions of lawyers and people of the legal profession differed from the other discussions, particularly in this professional work. Namely, Article 77. Serbia's constitution is completely clear. Article 4 treats the situation when an MP has called for immunity and in this case it is not a subject. Item 5, when the MP did not call for immunity, is also difficult to fit into today's topic, that is, how we are forced to discuss it. The other MPs who were not from this profession spoke emotionally and spoke for their sense of justice and justice. Most of the time, there was an impression that this was not to be found on the agenda and that it was not prepared properly. If the legislator wanted to treat the situation where the MP did not call for immunity, and the Assembly has no particular interest in applying this type of protection of MPs, then he would have put it in, that would have been the next position of Article 77. But apparently that wasn't the intention. In my opinion, the congregation’s professional services should have been provided when they were given this, and we could have conditionally stated an unprofessional memo or request, answers, and said that the congregation had no need to decide on this situation. That would be much clearer, and we wouldn't lose all day today and we wouldn't raise tensions and not talk about something that isn't a priority at this point. It is logical to ask the question of what is then the purpose of today's debate. I think one answer is that it's a distraction from those real topics that should occupy this congregation. When it comes to the concept of immunity, I think you should consider it a serious, constitutional category. However, immunity was placed in the Constitution and it was completely accurate and clear. I don't think there's any reason for us to relativize him and put him on probation every day and every chance. This assembly should take a serious and responsible position on this constitutional category. We should create certain criteria for how we behave in the future. My proposal is not to adopt a proposal to remove immunity from those MPs who have been sued for private lawsuits, especially as these cases of Dr Canovic, Mr Vukurovic, etc. have been brought today. Then, I think that this situation that I've been talking about, if, in private lawsuits, anyone can raise the issue of immunity, can cause one avalanche and can cause mass insemination of MPs both in some way and mass revenge to MPs and their harassment, regardless of which political options. Because you will agree, if a similar situation occurs with the ruling majority MPs, that this congregation, if it is consistent, should put it on the agenda. This means that we will spend at least a third of our time in the congregation discussing these topics. The federal assembly had several cases where the issue of immunity of federal MPs was raised, according to private charges. I will give an example of Miodrag Nikolic-Feman from Jagodina, the federal MP of DOS, where in one way, it is decent and elegant, the Federal Assembly has smoothly rejected such a proposal, although it is a number of private lawsuits against that person. It's the same for large amounts. The federal assembly protected its MP. There are other examples we could talk about, and there should always be a limit between what is public interest, social interest, and in particular to protect people from these situations. Then any proposal to withdraw immunity would have to be seriously documented and reasoned in the right way, in order for the Assembly to make a valid decision after a quality debate. After all I've said, not going into individual cases, I suggest that this assembly be removed from the agenda, or, which would be even more rational, that the Proposer withdraws this proposal to the agenda point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11693	In the meantime, you received the resignation of Alexander Krstic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88(2), and paragraphs 2 and 3. The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament finds the end of the term of office of MP Aleksandr Krstic, on the day of his resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the mandate ended before the end of the time elected to MP Aleksandr Krstic, elected from the election list of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word, and after him is the Messenger Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11694	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the appointment of this extraordinary session of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with this agenda is, at the very least, an embarrassment to the president of the Assembly and all 126 MPs who supported the initiative to hold this session. [[Applause]] Today, when 50% of the citizens starve, 40% survives with great effort, and you 10% rob or racket protects robbers and criminals, this kind of agenda is really embarrassing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11695	Mr. Janjic, I am obliged to give you my first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11696	I don't know why you're giving me a warning. I'm talking about what kind of status people you're taking off your immunity, what kind of legal system are you in, what kind of state we live in right now? You MPs, hence the citizens of Serbia, are distracting us with political accounts instead of all of us here discussing how to feed the population, provide heating, provide medicines for the sick, lower scholarships for students and students, make sure that all citizens survive this difficult period and the coming winter. You persistently dictate the agenda in the Assembly, which is not the right time. Our judiciary is in the hands of two people who made this institution their own pasture where they do everything and everything, both with business and with citizens. I will give you examples, so that the MPs know what justice system you believe in, and you want to trust the fate of two MPs or your colleagues. Let me give you an example: Holding "Kostana" Vranje. To take part of Holding "Kostane" in the Shop, which is the only positive operating plant, Mr. Covic raised judges of the Court of Commerce with the police and isolated him from Holding, without consulting workers and Holding. He appointed his director, who is a member of the Democratic Alternative, and this man now manages this collective in the Shop. And Holding neither wonders, nor does anyone decide. He took it simply as his right to order the judge to isolate the company from Holding. And no one can do that without the consent of the Holding in this country. What happened to "Junk" from Vranj? After a successful bid, the company Jumko from Vranja was granted the exclusive right to make uniforms for Bundesver. They made good money at the job, and the DOS gentlemen have no interference in southern Serbia, there's a simple folklore society without membership and without influential people, they wanted to shift management and then they said they helped NATO sew uniforms for Bundesver. It's like the Germans would come to southern Serbia in swimsuits. They'd sew them another one. The latest example is the flag of PES from Surdulice. By agreement between the Serbian government and Holding the flag, the collectives that stand out remain management, although the mandate has not expired...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11697	Mr. Janjic, your anecdotes are really interesting and funny, but please move on to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11698	For you, it's anecdotes, and for me, these are the fates of the people we need to worry about. Mr. Covic ordered that his man be placed in the flag, regardless of what was past the government's decision. A municipal judge, with the help of the police, is trying to impose on workers management, which workers will not. Of the 260 workers, 240 declared to remain the old leadership, which led them well. The last attack was Thursday, with 30 officers. You don't have any cops to solve any criminal cases, but you have 30 cops and a district judge from Surdulica who's writing a warrant to the police to force him into a factory, even if they beat up all the workers. It's your new candidate for the President of the Municipality Court in Surdulica. For that appointment he had to do such a dirty job. (President: This is the next point. ) Fortunately, the Commercial Court in Leskovac did not succumb to pressure and brought a fair solution - that it was the leadership chosen by the workers. This kind of justice should not leave the fate of any man without valid evidence. I would not trust you with the fate of a pig before Easter, let alone a man, for out of all of you is evil, dishonesty, and a desire for vengeance. You're playing with people's fates, like they're just numbers, not people of flesh and blood like you. What you're doing is a picture of you in power, and your intention is to seduce the fear and remove all the unthinkers and critics of power. Citizens will at this meeting make sure that Mr. "uninformed" and his MP group in this House just throws dust in their eyes, as -- not all in DOS are the same, thieves are in DOS, and they have come out of DOS, they are SadDSS - Vojislav Kostunica. From Micunovic's nest, the same chickens come out of a nest, only a few feathers can vary. They're all predators. (President: Mr. Lamb, I give you a second warning. ) Both of these parliamentary groups, whatever their name is, are devastating for the Serbian people and the state. The vote in the Assembly will open their eyes and it will be clear to everyone that you are together only to be held in power and robbed as much as possible. That's where half will be brazen and rude, and the other half will be naive and uninformed, and in fact, all legalists are the same, because they legalize all the robberies and abuses of the government. Because of all this, it is necessary to close your mouth to anyone who speaks and think differently, and it is particularly dangerous if someone points to the theft and abuse of DOS authorities. By making such a precedent, when MPs are stripped of immunity without a valid explanation, it aims to intimidate all citizens and potential critics of the government because, if this is how the government treats the MPs chosen by the people, what should be expected by an ordinary citizen who dares to criticise the government or to point to your DOS robberies and fraud. You gentlemen seem to be living on another planet, so you're not interested in citizens' problems. You share problems in two groups -- inherited by the previous government and newly created during DOS rule. Unfortunately, you only solve your personal problems, and you don't notice that there are citizens. Even though they already know, I repeat, DOS is the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11699	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11700	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an absurd session where the National Assembly discusses removing immunity from the MPs, who have not even called for immunity. On the other hand, it's absurd that it turns into a courtroom and MPs become judges. Are we competent to judge and assess someone's guilt, especially if we don't have clear facts and arguments to prove it? We have a situation here that one doctor should be tried even though it has been proven that there has been no professional, no ethical, no other mistakes. Now, on the basis of a private lawsuit, this assembly needs to remove his immunity and thus find him guilty. Who wants to judge? There are two kinds of people who want to judge. One is people who, in fact, are enraged with hate, want to hurt someone. Other people who, in fact, have not fulfilled their desires in some life, to be dominant in some situations and now want to be judged, judged, inflicted by some evil on other people by treating some of their complexes, which they may have inherited and brought from childhood. I know a lot of mediocrity came to power after that October revolution, which now thinks they're very smart and they know everything because at one point in their hopelessness and desire to change something, in fact, put them in power. It was a time of this euphoria and this narrowed-down consciousness and hatred that it was in that period, it was also just and just in that euphoria. That makes sense. Anyway, euphoria narrows down hate. Then came many wartime chiefs who announced the arrest of people and the persecution of political opponents. If this was a period that we can explain as a psychological background of one time, then this after a year is certainly another psychological element, which is now the result of one fear and one aggression that arises based on that fear, the fear that the people realized that all promises were false and that we live in a time of lies, fraud, bribery and various demagogy, which is constantly spreading on the media, primarily through the advertising of ministries or ministers, as if they were some cheap detergents. In these conditions, such a psychological basis, when aggression breaks out, then the moment just arises that many want to judge or skip something announced called democracy, it was called legality, it was called constitutionality. Thus, we thus come to the position that we now have in society a terrible obstruction of life. There was talk of obstruction of this parliament, but what is this other than obstruction of life, if in addition to so many problems that this country has, in addition to economic collapse and one social chaos, puts something on the agenda that is absolutely unnecessary and no one has asked for it, or is it the result of what the investigative judges (accepted) in great fear of threats from DOS politburo? Now they are completely insecure to seek protection in this way, so they will ask for every MP to be removed from his immunity so that they will be assured that nothing will happen to them, that no one will threaten them or remove them from the functions they are in. So, as it is now going and as it is now happening, I'm telling you that if you continue to do so, that after a year or more, you do more damage to Serbia than communists in 50 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11701	The People's Messenger Marijan Rističević has the word, and after him, the MP of the people, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11702	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't think I was taking my word for it, but there was too much talk here about political repression and crime. Most often, those who are not morally qualified to talk about it today spoke about it. In the last session, I was a folk MP and I went to the judge 17 times for violations, for alleged misdemeanors and misdemeanors that I did not commit, but they thought I did. I answered all those calls. I was arrested by the former regime on July 29th, the third day of the election campaign in the centre of Indjia, for the division of leaflets that said "get out and vote". That is why I do not give right to those who speak today about the political repression allegedly being conducted against them, although they have studied the political repression in a large way during the former regime. We from the Vojvodina Coalition, or the DOS subgroup, had a dilemma about whether we should vote to lift the immunity of Branislav Ivkovic and Mr Canovic. That dilemma was huge. We even felt that we should not vote to abolish immunity, thinking that there are no elements in the future that such decisions are applied purely to political cases, which is not the case here. Branislav Ivkovic himself assured us because he expressed his desire to be subject to a judicial procedure, as I understood it, and I hope you understood it well. He asked this congregation to appear in that court. If we did not vote to abolish his immunity, in that case Banet Ivkovic's wish would not be fulfilled and he could not prove that he was not guilty, and he said clearly and loudly that in half an hour with the documentation he has, he would inform the public prosecutor that there are no elements for criminal liability. Therefore, we have decided to support and vote to abolish the immunity of the MPs, and we can only change our mind if Branislav Ivkovic comes out in person, says and asks for protection from MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since he does not seek that protection, we believe that we must not protect him from himself and that we cannot ignore that desire, his clearly expressed desire to appear in a court case against him. I hope our colleague Branislav Ivkovic will prove his innocence and perhaps I am somewhat and confident that he can prove that he is not guilty and not guilty of me until proven guilty. So, we at DOS don't feel that someone is guilty before the end and the justice of the verdict. I'm saying, I hope, for his colleague's sake, he'll prove he's not guilty of what a public prosecutor is charging him with. The members of another ruling party who dared even declare this assembly a courtroom, and by looking at the conduct of such MPs, they often do not turn the congregation into a courtroom but a madhouse. This time they dared even to mention the Taliban. The last party is the party, which the Taliban mentioned, which is the last party to mention them, because they are similar political options or war options, with the Taliban being the Taliban, and our Taliban being a little "lumpet" and just saying that they would shoot at Rome, London, Paris and, fortunately, this country and this nation had no guts to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11703	Mr. Ivkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11704	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank my distinguished colleague, Mr. Marijan Rističević, for giving me a chance to repeat once again what I said earlier this afternoon. In fact, if you ask me what I think, this agenda item should not have been considered at all. I was supposed to be called by an investigative judge and go to him nicely. I promise you, and I'm telling you right now, I'm inviting him to call me and I'm absolutely not going to call for immunity, because my conscience is completely calm. So, a man should call me nicely, I should go to him, again, after the means of information on April 13th, on the black Friday of democracy and morality in Serbia, and inform him of the content of the criminal application immediately to remove the entire material that I have prepared. Later, at the end of the debate, I'll show her to get into the process nicely. I'm telling you right now, with deep faith in the honor of the judge, I'm not going to call for immunity. At that moment, if I were to estimate that a man was being pressured, I'd call for immunity, come back here to the O.R. and tell you why I called for immunity and ask you to back me up. So this agenda point is completely unnecessary, because under Article 77(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia can discuss my immunity only when I call for immunity from the judge and you decide whether you support me or do not support me, and this Article 77, paragraph 5, which is listed, actually gives you a chance if I don't call for immunity that you help me establish immunity for me, to protect me as the president of the opposition party's parliamentary group, because I'm certainly on the strike of the DOS regime, as I'm most likely speaking of it. So now you're really in an awkward situation, because you decide nothing. I didn't call for immunity. They called on you to decide on a member where you have the right to establish immunity for me, and only when I go into the process and when I call for immunity can you decide whether I'm right or wrong. So, dear MPs, please, take this item off the agenda, let the judge ask me to go to him, to show him all the paperwork, because I already know what it is, because suddenly and suddenly on April 13th, on a black Friday, they've published everything and we're going to finish this job, or if you continue, I'm going to start thinking that the elections are really close and it's important for them to have one man in the investigation procedure that he can't be a candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11705	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to point out to the President of the National Assembly, not because of those who are not able to insult anyone, to hurt anyone but themselves, but above all because such things happen in the National Assembly and I would like to point out the inconsistencies in the conduct of the chairman and pray that this does not happen in the future. For things that were completely clear and obvious and as facts presented in this high house, you have been warning the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. I don't think at all I'm talking about what someone who came out of this pay phone a little while ago, who doesn't know or can hardly master the language he speaks, let alone understand the meaning of his own words, but it would be good if you changed that relationship and had a balanced relationship, so also to the MPs of the opposition and to the MPs of the government. You know, if someone thinks they're going to insult the Taliban in this way, it's enough to look in the mirror and the stasis and the voice will clearly see who looks like the Taliban, and I owe you Mr. President, and I'll use two sentences just saying one thing: you haven't been telling the truth today, and I'm going to say it very mildly. Otherwise, Mr. Seselj's doctoral dissertation is "the political essence of militarism and fascism". I read a sobbing student, and in my own time one of the best law students in Belgrade, and I read one of the two books from the great scientific post of President Kostunica -- "Social Self-Government in Social Action". That's a fact, that's true, Mr. President, and very different from what you said this morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11706	The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word, and after him, the MP of the people, Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11707	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, putting this item on the agenda, taking immunity from the MPs Canovic and Ivkovic, should serve us as a barometer to determine your DOS unity. Although I am not a legal person, I think it is necessary for the judicial authority to determine the guilt of the MPs, and then to forward to the Assembly (proposal) that their immunity be taken away. This means that you all have the same fate, if someone from the ruling parties doesn't like it. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of taking away immunity and condemning DOS leaders who promised in the pre-election campaign, they did not fulfill but the liers of the citizens of Serbia, and for everything they allegedly said was not in the previous regimeal government, which is democracy, freedom, freedom of information, which is why you deceived the people of Serbia, because you have promised him life, apparently, for you are a worthy human being of every man's ability to live from his work. In order to prove their democracy and to be as convincing as possible, you defaminate yourself with a red leprosy, all 18 of you, and you called yourself the Democratic Opposition of Serbia. Instead of your democracy today, Serbia is ruled by anarchy, bureaucracy, crime, mafia. The DOS leaders in municipalities today are fighting for power, all possible authorised and unauthorized funds between authorities. So I suggest, ladies and gentlemen, we join this action of Dr. Vojislav Seselj, and this picture will tell you everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11708	Mr. Zivanovic, I warn you to return to the agenda. It's the fourth minute, you could start sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11709	Madam Chairman, I'm talking about my country, I'm talking about my people, and I've never been off the subject. Ladies and gentlemen, those who have preserved and fed this country, those who feed and defend this country, today they strike because they are unhappy with the state's relationship with them. The agriculture ministry, headed by Veselinov, cheats on peasants and what he promises them does not keep. Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, is threatening biological extinction. Believe me, on a tour of the Pussy County, statistics show that there are about 5,000 single boys, which means 5,000 rural households will be shut down.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11710	Mr. Zivanovic, since you haven't returned on the subject despite my warning, on the basis of article 101. Rules of Procedure, I'm calling out your first warning and I'm asking you to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11711	Freedom - about freedom is often heard, and it is spoken of by those who have lived in freedom all their lives. Freedom can be talked about by citizens from Kosovo and Metohija, about freedom can be talked about by citizens from Republika Srpska, about freedom from Republika Srpska. Today, the best of freedom can be spoken of by students in Kosovo and Metohija as they perform classes in Serbian under the open sky, in the open space...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11712	Mr. Zivanovic, I have the freedom to give you a second warning on the basis of article 101 because you are still not sticking to the topic of the agenda. Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11713	Where UNMIK and KFOR don't even allow them to teach. It's all under the jurisdiction of the minister of education, Mr. Gaš Knezevic. Ladies and gentlemen, since the lady won't allow me to speak, I'm still going to have to finish because the freedom of information in this country is blocked. Nowhere in any country today in Europe is such a media blockade as it is in Serbia today. It is not today that you can hear or hear exactly what we are discussing in the congregation today. But I'll interrupt, probably the lady will already interrupt me and I have to say what probably a lot of you don't know, you see, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, if in his election campaign he was talking about prosperity, he probably thought about the well-being he wanted to live in. That's why he got the cavalry when his funding was strengthened, and now he's seeing Batic along with various Serbia's hypodroms.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11714	Mr. Zivanovic, I've given you two warnings, you know the next step is taking words.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11715	One more sentence and I'll go. On September 9th at 6:00 p.m. with three jeeps, Mr. Batic came to Shabac to see Mrs. Gordana Zivojinovic, a businessman who deals with oil and gasoline sales, so you can see where the government's three jeeps came from in Sapac.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11716	The word has a folk MP, Zoran Nikolic, and the next is MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11717	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, has brought forth numerous arguments in the debates so far for and against the decision on the agenda. I'm risking that I might repeat some of the arguments, but don't mind me, I'll try to get down in the time that's scheduled for discussion. I would like to share the reasons why the proposed decision of the Administrative Committee should not be accepted in two groups. The first group, these are primarily legal reasons, which were partly referred to for this speaker, and they would bend down to the next one. The Management Board decided to propose to the National Assembly not to apply immunity to MP Branislav Ivkovic, with a call for Article 77(5). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I will quote a member: "The National Assembly may decide to apply immunity to the MP and if he has not called upon him himself, when necessary to perform his duties". This interpreted attitude of the Constitution clearly indicates that it is an additional protection of the immunity of the MP, as well as only the language interpretation of the norm, which must be understood closely, means as it says, it indicates that the National Assembly can decide not to apply immunity to the MP. Article 77(4) cannot also be applied. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is otherwise prescribed that a criminal or other procedure in which a prison sentence can be imposed against a MP who is called for immunity cannot be initiated without the approval of the National Assembly. This view assumes the fact that the MP had previously called for immunity, which in particular did not happen. National MP Ivkovic was not at all in a position to declare his immunity because he was not invited by an investigative judge to do so, which we believe is a major procedural error in the process. I conclude from everything that the decision of the Administrative Committee is based on both the incorrect interpretation of constitutional norms and the fact that the procedural assumptions for the declaration by the Administrative Committee and the National Assembly have not been met. I therefore consider it most correct to stop at this time with this procedure and to seek and make an authentic interpretation of Article 77. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and also remove procedural assumptions in terms of the MP's statement whether or not he is calling for his immunity. I think that the investigative judge, and this is what the CAP points him to, before he has reached a solution to open an investigation, which is exactly the one that is being prosecuted, was obliged, in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, to call on the defendant, to give him an insight of the facts that burden him, so that only after that, the defendant would plead whether he would apply or not to call on his immunity. In case of non-immunity, the procedure is conducted without any procedure in the National Assembly, and in other cases, if called for immunity, then this mechanism and the National Assembly are activated in a position to decide. It's just that the previous question hasn't been cleared up. And it is good that today the Administrative Committee has concluded that on immunity, it requires the Supreme Court's opinion on the court's behaviour in these situations because it is obvious that some courts as a hot potato previous issue of immunity are pushing the right of the National Assembly, without calling on the defendants to declare whether or not they are calling for immunity. As far as political reasons are concerned, two reasons too. The first is that Mr. Ivkovic is the head of the parliamentary group and the heads of the parliamentary groups in our parliamentary system have a particularly significant role to play. I think that after the president of the National Assembly, they have the greatest responsibility for the functioning of parliamentary democracy. Therefore, the confiscation of immunity to the head of the parliamentary group has a special weight and responsibility in relation to other MPs. The second argument is more principled and general, that the essence of democracy is best expressed in terms of the majority towards the minority. By denying immunity to Branislav Ivkovic, who holds a prominent role in the opposition scene of Serbia, it can be interpreted negatively and re-reputed negative relations in our country in terms of democratic relations. This team before it is known that the mandate of the MPs is limited, and hence the immunity they enjoy, so it is possible to conduct criminal and other proceedings after the end of the mandate of the MPs. Those who have defended this decision (that is a small number of MPs who have come to the floor), it comes from the fact that we are all equal before the law, that such decisions actually protect and strengthen the rule of law, I don't think that, in a specific case, it simply isn't. I would use a quote from "Politics" last Friday, which is a rather serious article, which elaborates the situation on the left, among other things, that otherwise known as the opportunity on the left, whose name I will not mention, says that, according to some information, criminal charges have been raised against hundreds of Socialists. I'm asking you now - who in this country knows who the criminal charges are against, or they'll be raised. Does the MUP, when filing a criminal report, take the information the party belongs to - does not take. Is the defendant obliged to say which party he belongs to - no. This means that simply, one group of people is ordering that against another group, in a specific case of the SPS, the political struggle is also being fought on this front by criminal charges. And that fight, here's public, and through the media it's hinting. Because of all of this, I think the arguments of a guy -- we're strengthening the rule of law, and the arguments of a guy -- that we're all equal before the law, it's like the argument George Orwell made in his "Life Farm" part, where he said that all the animals on that farm are even, are just a little more equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11718	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11719	The honourable MPs, one is undeniable - within the meaning of Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 259 The Rules of Procedure of the National Republic of Serbia Assembly, as well as at the request of 126 MPs, could schedule an extraordinary session. I personally expected extraordinary sessions a long time ago, because I think there were many reasons for that. I expected an extraordinary session, as I said, much earlier, because there were many topics that were much more important than the agenda. I think the topics were supposed to be questions that life meant and that are of life's interest, and above all, that's economics, how business works, why there's been a decline in production, why there's growing unemployment? The topic could also be agriculture, because it is on the threshold of the autumn sowing, and in the context of this, there could also be a replacement of the Minister of Agriculture, as requested by the party of the Soviet Union. The topic was to be, above all, the registration of voters, Serbs, for elections in Kosovo and Metohija. I think the problem is standing before us as the most important thing right now. I think that, after the conclusion and the Declaration on Kosovo and Metohija, which we have unanimously made, it was also necessary to register voters and the question - whether Serbs should go to the elections - to put here in the National Assembly, that MPs of the National Assembly decide on this most important issue of the Serbian people, and not that the decision is made by the DOS Politburo Why not talk about crime, if the most talk about bribery, corruption and crime in our country lately, and these issues are being raised by the exceptions that are in power? If we gathered all the problems above, then the single item of the agenda would be trust with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. But since it is as it is, I would also like to say a few words about the proposal of the Administrative Committee, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not apply immunity to the MPs, Professor Branislav Ivkovic and Dr Canovic. We received only a notice from the material, I don't know how else to call this paper, which says that the Belgrade District Public Prosecutor's Office submitted a request to the Belgrade District Court on 5 April 2001 for an investigation, under number 37101, since 5 April 2001, against the accused professor Dr Branislav Ivkovic. I don't know why we, the MPs, were not charged with criminal charges, from which we, MPs, could judge - is there any reason not to apply immunity to MP Branislav Ivkovic, and I didn't get the request from the Administrative Committee for Dr Canovic. Is the criminal application for Professor Branislav Ivkovic referring to the period when Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic was Minister of Science and Technology? If this is related to that time, then the material delivered to the MPs in the spring, about the final account for 2000. If the criminal complaint stemmed from the control of the budget inspection, I wonder if the legal procedure was respected, was the right of the person responsible during that period (and during that period Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic was the person responsible) to declare that he was in a situation of fact? Whether the files, the minutes and the solution were delivered to Professor Branislav Ivkovic, and by law, he has the right to plead, to appeal for the solution. In the appeal process, he has the right to deliver new material evidence, which could disprove the solution established by the budgetary inspection. And what happens if Professor Branislav Ivkovic submits a complaint to the Supreme Court, if the second-degreed authority determines how the solution was made? What if the Supreme Court annuls the acts in the record, as determined by the budget inspection? The Supreme Court can do so, as NATO's sentence could be lifted for mercenaries. So, criminal charges have been filed for an act, for which no proceedings have been closed. It is not known whether it is true or not. That's why I think this proposal should be withdrawn from the assembly procedure. If you do not, then I ask the MPs to think carefully about how they will vote. All MPs should be principled against abolishing the immunity of any MP, because the people chose us. I guess the people knew who they were choosing and who they trusted. Because, by abolishing immunity, above all opposition MPs, he seeks political nominations, and nothing else. Because why not ask for immunity if Professor Branislav Ivkovic has not called for immunity? So the head of our parliamentary group doesn't run away from the law. He's here and I believe he'll prove his innocence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11720	The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11721	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for an extraordinary meeting of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 126 DOS MPs had to choose an important and more interesting topic for the people of the Republic of Serbia. However, after the DOS disagreement, we need to find something to entertain people, and at least for a moment forget all the problems that cause them, such as the fall of standards, the fall of production, the day-to-day gatherings, social misery. What we are discussing today should not have been found on the agenda, especially not at an extraordinary session, and it would not have been good for us to discuss individual MPs and immunities in the future, and that is how it is defined in our IDs. If someone did something, they'll answer anyway when he's not an MP. This was launched for political reasons and aims to do political damage to the SPS parliamentary group president, Professor Branislav Ivkovic. However, when it seems this way, I think so too. Ivkovic, as well as the SPS, is growing. You gentlemen have been in power for ten months now and I can't and now I can't be the guilty socialists for all your failed moves that you're taking down. Isn't it the end of the rematch and the destruction of political inexperience? The fact is, these two MPs didn't call for immunity, so why is this on the Assembly agenda? Why no further explanations were given on how MPs would plead on the basis of what was delivered, where they could not be found guilty. Is this a threat and other MPs to see how they behave, what they say, what they do, is that the democratic state you promised in the election campaign? Is that a legal state where the judiciary is independent of the executive authority? This should be withdrawn from the procedure and no time should be wasted. Serbian citizens of all of us expect us to address some important issues. Is it the fight against crime that we heard the hour has it and the hour is gone, is it unemployment, are these problems in agriculture, is it the issue of Kosovo, the registration of voters or the launch of production? This should be on the Parliament's agenda, and Prof. Dr. Ivkovic and Dr. Canovic are honest people and will defend themselves. However, the question remains, why did the press write about it in April, and we are discussing it today at an extraordinary session? Is it the state and its survival or is it something else, or has a pre-election campaign already begun, so at the beginning of a political insinuation, it should be removed? If that's the case, I don't think it's good, and the people of Serbia will see it through, and in the elections they'll say theirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11722	The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric. The next is MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11723	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable President, the Honorable Vice President, has been said a lot, so it is hard to say something new and not repeat what fellow Members have spoken of. Everyone knows what this is about. Everything you've criticised in the past, you've done worse. To take away the immunity of the president of the MP club, Professor Banet Ivkovic, means that you have decided to continue to deal with us. It'll soon be a year since you're in power, and you're still dealing with the immunity of the SPS MPs. Start working already. Nevertheless, you are engaged in the sale of Serbian companies. You should not have put this issue on the agenda so that you could tell Serbian citizens that the judiciary is independent. This is where he's trying to replace the weights. The president of the state of Kostunica says the government is corrupt, there is crime, some ministers are involved in a lot of dirty work. The president of the Serbian Parliament, Mr. Marsican, did not understand what government it was, so he put the minister from the previous government on the agenda, not the current one. If the judiciary is independent and if all citizens are equal before the courts and it does not matter which parties they are from, this government would fall and elections would already be called. Why Banet Ivkovic's immunity? Because in an opposing political camp, the best or the one in charge is elected. This won't bring you a lot of political points at DOS. People are interested in other issues -- why are they alive worse today than ever before, where aid from abroad has been promised, who sells Serbian economy, whether Dusan Mihajlovic is still digging through the cemetery, as Batic suggests judges and presidents of courts without procedures, only if they are willing to judge the opposition, which is also in the case of Professor Banet Ivkovic? That judge will probably be promoted, too. That's why I'm asking the MPs not to vote for this proposal, which can lead them into a trap that they themselves can fall into. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11724	The word has a People's MP to Veroljba Arsic. The last to be reported for discussion is MP Vladimir Garcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11725	Ladies and gentlemen, when DOS came to power, you promised that there would be no political rematch and that prisons would go exclusively to real criminals, and that both for this speaker and for the means of public information, and for God's sakes in your election campaign. That was until you came to power. The games of political rematchism are now beginning, and the immunity of the MPs has come. It is also funny that this congregation does not know why MPs are being abolished and for what crimes, how dangerous they are as phenomena, and do they deserve the attention of the Assembly and the MPs? To make matters even more unserious, none of the MPs who have been removed from immunity have called on that immunity for one single time, and therefore this item of the agenda is completely unnecessary and the Assembly has spent a full day without the need for it. To make things worse, this session is extraordinary, and it's scheduled by DOS on the following principle -- if we can't give the people bread, we'll give the games. In doing so, you forget that there are games that have tragic consequences. The Serbian Radical Party has warned several times today, and in the previous coalition, such as the SPS coalition and the New Democracy, that such games do not start without the right reason because they will eventually return to them. That's what we told them when they lifted the immunity from the SRS and as you can see, we were absolutely right. The SPS immunity came in today. Yet you are trying to be even worse than your predecessors in part, and you are going as far as to have the President of the Assembly publicly after this speaker threatening the MPs of the SRS that their immunity is on the next agenda, a man who is the hour of the Doss MP, the hour of the Vice President of the National Assembly, is the hour of the President of the National Assembly, and the hour is the vice president of the DSS, a man of three, as well as his party president, Mr Vojislav Kostunica. I don't know if the next session will be about the immunity of the DSS MPs, who already have criminal charges, I doubt that. And yet to be aware that there is a saying, as anyone does, so return to him. It is high time for DOS to stop playing with this assembly, country and people, but to rule this country as a host, because of your games, gentlemen, Serbian citizens are getting poorer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11726	The word is made by MP Vladimir Garčević, and then by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11727	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, in this two-month break, and especially during the tumultuous August of the month, I expected a session of the Assembly to determine the legality of President Kostunica here, what is stolen, who steals it, what happens to the country of Serbia and who kills who. However, a call for a session puts something that cannot be said to be extraordinary. Under extraordinary circumstances, I mean something that occurred outside of something where emergency healing measures were needed, an emergency reaction from the Assembly, an emergency response from the Serbian government. If the immunity of our comrades is an emergency and if it is something that concerns the DOS, then I cannot interpret it differently but that it is a political reckoning with the non-insistents, or with the opposition. What made you MPs of the ruling parties afraid of the opposition? Whether your disagreement inside or what's called a lagging economy, and I'll just say 25% is less in my community compared to last year's six months. You promised, we were expecting, and I'd be happy if it was better, no matter what I'm an opposition. However, persecutors and their sympathisers at jobs performed by all parties independently, that is, their leadership. What happens in the judiciary, where they must move to Batic's party, and we will discuss it at the judiciary. Or, running to lawyers, if Mr. Batic please. Then there is one question, who will be the judge and be an honest judge, if his appointment depends on whether he will judge the opposition MPs. Whether it be our esteemed colleague from Kragujevac or the chairman of the SPS parliamentary group. On the other hand, all MPs are said to be the same. I'm sorry, Mr. President, you, me, Mr. Jovanovic, we're not the same. Here's to explain why. We're not the same, because you're the president, you have certain privileges, you have something greater to do, than I am as an MP. You have a car that will bring you and take you. You have certain protection, you have power. Therefore, it cannot be said that the president of the parliamentary group is one and the same. He's hitting the top of the opposition parties. You can't say that Jovanovic and I are the same. He is president of the DOS parliamentary group and we are not automatically equal in the part. This is your pledge that all MPs are equal and equal "not drinking" water in the Serbian people. So, if we're really looking, all this stuff you want to do with this is attack on the SPS, the SS and the SRS, which will take place in the next part. Next session. So stop with your manners, but stop. You're not afraid of socialists because they're led by certain people, you're afraid of your failures, your weaknesses. You're afraid of what you promised, and you didn't. Since there is no legal basis here, constitutional basis, I suggest that the Administrative Board withdraw this, and that in future, all material be delivered to us and that each of us may think with his own head, not the other's head, as ordered. I hope no immunity will ever come here again, to be considered without complete material and without complete procedure. So I suggest you put an end to this and never show up like this unprepared sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11728	The People's MP Dragan Jovanovic has the word, followed by MP Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11729	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak very briefly of today's tragedy, which is happening in this assembly. I'm right to say, tragedy, because the citizens of Serbia, watching these four hours, have understood for themselves that this is a tragedy. DOS directors were tasked with making a play for the people, but as bad directors and dramatists, they failed to make a play, but made a sketch, which in its form is not as drama as it should have been, but as a tragedy. What was the goal of today's play supposed to be? The aim of today's performance was to collect political points from DOS gentlemen and resolve some of their internal political conflicts, on the one hand. And on the other hand, showing DOS uniqueness. And third, an attempt to hit opposition parties through the crime story, i.e. the replacement of the thesis and the transfer of crime from the ruling party to opposition. None of these three things worked. Why didn't she make it? The people of Serbia are wise. He can't be fooled because he's seen a lot of shows. The president of the assembly twice went out for a pay phone today. He had to look the people of Serbia in the eyes and explain today's agenda of the extraordinary assembly. The show is made with the money of the people. Take a look at the agenda, the first item, the decision to replace the committee members proposed by the president of the parliamentary groups. The second point, the withdrawal of immunity to MPs who have not even called for immunity. Third point, confirmation of the commissioner's decision, i.e. personnel services, or DOS personnel commissions from the field on the so-called the choice of judges. And the fourth point, the decision to keep the coffee-cooked aunts in the joint bodies of the joint administration, and the women who account for wages in the congregation services. Do these agenda points deserve to be discussed at an extraordinary session of the Serbian Assembly? Serbian citizens know, they also learned the Rules of Procedure. Neither of these four points in the Rules of Procedure were to be found on the agenda. So the task was to show the unity of DOS, because only four points like this can you vote unanimously. You will see that all four points will be voted unanimously. You think the people will believe you've restored unity? You have not put serious questions on the agenda, because on serious issues you would continue the division and conflicts that are present on these grounds, on our space for two months. Only in these points can you vote unanimously and this is what the people today will see that you are quite unanimous. The second thing is to question immunity to MPs who did not even ask for it, and they are from opposition parties and the Serbian Unity Party, from the SPS, I am amazed, today did not come from the Radical Party of Prof. A seam. I think it will be him at the next session, and I must congratulate you, that you have succeeded, and now you have managed to prove that you have solved the issue of crime in Serbia. Two university professors are the biggest criminals in Serbia. I think you have solved the issue of crime and that the people of Serbia should congratulate you on your successful fight against crime. I don't think the path you've chosen is good. To deal with political opponents in this way is not appropriate and will not bring results. This will already be shown in the additional local elections. Your internal conflicts will not be resolved by putting on the agenda and voting unanimously for them. You'll do Serbia good if you set serious agendas. Today, there were at least 100 points in the agenda of the problem of the people, as well as dedicated initiatives in the congregation. I think only by changing the way and changing the policy can we all move forward together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11730	The People's Messenger Ljubisa Maravić has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11731	Dear President, dear fellow MPs, I think it would be best if this agenda item were withdrawn from the procedure, because it's more than obvious what the background is, and the background is quite different. The debate today is a precedent in the work of this parliament, as honourable fellow MPs Branislav Ivkovic and Canovic -- have not even called for their parliamentary immunity. How is it possible in one legal state that the defendants find out they're guilty from newspapers, and that before that, the indictment, allegedly guilty, was not handed to them. Dear fellow MPs, a respected auditorium, we are today discussing the immunity of our colleagues, Professor Ivkovic and Canovic, but I would like to ask the question - why today or until today we have not discussed the violation of the resolution of this assembly, which we have brought, and the conclusions of the National Assembly, which we have reached. The resolution, which we have adopted, was reached on the basis of the federal government's conclusions and a proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia and concerns Kosovo and Metohija. Currently there is a population registration process in Kosovo and Metohija, and the registration of the population under UNMIK regulations is a pre-election of electoral activity. Why was this most important national interest not being discussed here and why did this congregation not make a decision? (President: Mr. Maravitz, please stick to the topic. I really need to say this. I think this is on the agenda, too. When it comes to Kosovo, Kosovo is always on the agenda. Serbs, Montenegrins and other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija are under terrible pressure from the Serbian government's resolute ministries, under the threat of not receiving personal income, and individuals may even be expelled from work unless they register. They are required to deliver registration lists to the resolution ministries, so that they can receive personal income regularly in the future. I am afraid that by the same principle, by the way of the resolution that we have reached and the conclusions we have adopted, the order for the Serbs to go to the elections will come, although in this resolution we have concluded that the Constitutional Framework for Self-Government in Kosovo and Metohija is a document that provides all attributes of the state. That is why I would also support some of my fellow MPs from a position against the Serb vote. I wonder if we'll discuss that too in this congregation. The Socialists have repeatedly pointed out today that they have not been afraid to debate corruption and corruption over the past 12 years. Why not? But that agenda doesn't come to this session and the debate. According to the information we have, the processes are being conducted against a large number of Socialists in Serbia. And according to our information, over 20,000 people have been removed from their jobs, and only because they were members of the former regime. Today, we are discussing the immunity of two university professors, and across Serbia, be sure, there are hundreds of Ivkovic and Canovic who are closing down, and then released from prison without any evidence that they are guilty. Today we are discussing taking away immunity without having facts, arguments, or evidence that they are guilty. We are discussing confiscation of immunity to Prof. Dr. Ivkovic and Canovic. It's not a coincidence. One is young and perspective. I'm really sorry about that family that this happened to. Others, i.e. Prof. Ivkovic is a respected professor of university, father of four children and patriots. Professor Ivkovic was among the most difficult moments of our country to gather people, who, along with thousands of people in Belgrade, protected this city from NATO bombing. Also, I am familiar with the efforts to remain Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the understanding of the importance of the return of the Pristina University to Kosovo and Metohija. The public knows the fact that he's a respected colleague of the Professor's. Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, was minister of construction in the period during which the debate was held and when the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, which, as a document, after the constitution, certainly has a rank that is the most significant and regulated by Serbia as a whole. Therefore, some may now be disturbed by Professor Ivkovic, who has advocated Serbia as a whole, because these days a very current debate on Serbia's regionalisation and the division of Serbia into some 14 regions etc. In a period of time, while he's a professor. Ivkovic, the building minister, was discussed and 10 legislative projects were passed, among which he is certainly one of the most significant concessions law, to which there has really been no objections. During that period, 1,800 young people across Serbia received scholarships. Prof. Ivkovic is one of the founders of FONAS -- an organisation to fight drug abuse and addiction. What it means and what organization it's about, I think you all know, and especially in this situation where the streets are full of drugs and those who enjoy that drug. Also, the streets are increasingly filled with those who take the lives of others, i.e. growing crime. Why has this assembly not asked a long question about the formation of a survey committee to determine the facts about the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague tribunal? Is there a fully respected legal procedure here? In the end, I think, like my predecessors, this is about a political campaign, with the goal of going to some kind of mounted political process. It started, not by chance, from the university and around the university. It started with the exclusion of professors. Vojislav Seselj of the University. Now you're going with professor. Ivkovic, you're going with a young colleague, Canovic, and the question is who's next.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11732	The word has a folk MP, Sreten Mitrovica, followed by Mr Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11733	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had no intention of answering because I didn't have any material. We all know it well, given the situation we're in with Cosmeta, that we don't get the material. But the other MPs don't have any of the material they've received, either, because the agenda item that's today, about abolishing the immunity of the MPs, Branislav Ivkovic and Dr Canovic, nothing could help lawmakers. I was encouraged by discussions by all the MPs who discussed it, that there are many more important topics that we should be bringing today at an extraordinary session. First of all, the situation in Cosmet and what is coming, which is registration and next elections. But I have to mention some facts about the government that's on Cosmet and that one here. When KFOR and UNMIK came to Cosmet, their thesis was to protect democracy and help solve the situation in Cosmet. But we all know what they contributed to the Serbian people, and what all Serbian people experience under KFOR and UNMIK's occupation. Did only one of the Albanians point to the finger that it was a Serb and that it did the crime, KFOR and UNMIK immediately arrest him and without any evidence. It is also the product of the democratic government DOS. Anyone who stands in the way of DOS authorities, namely today's opposition, and if the DOS government thinks that these people, or those representatives of the opposition, should not lead opposition parties or contribute to improving the work of the opposition, they are being arrested and so today we have in our daily work the removal of immunity to Professor Ivkovic and MP Canovic. I'm not interested in talking about the legal frameworks of seizing immunity, but I'm going to say a lot about the registration that's being performed in Kosovo and Metohija these days.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11734	Mr. Mitrovica, don't go into conscious violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11735	I have to say that there is a different act of registration on the part of Cosmet and on the premises of the administration of Kosovo and Metohija. At Cosmet, we're photographed in three four profiles, they're taking fingerprints of all the fingers, so they're making us an ID card, so the next day they can find us faster and easier to find. Yes, Omerovic, it's true, that's what UNMIK is doing today in Cosmet. Secondly, what's said here, one who doesn't respond, which we have these days, doesn't respond to registration...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11736	Mr. Mitrovica, I give you a warning and ask you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11737	That's the president's issue, because what DOS government is doing here is doing the same thing and worse down there, some self-proclaimed DOS representatives who certainly don't even trust their family. You know what they said when they sat down at the chair - we waited 15 years, for us today you're dead. So anyone who is in front of the Socialist Party and represents something in the people must at all costs be removed, and that is what we have on the agenda today, the withdrawal of immunity to Professor Ivkovic and MP Canovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11738	National e-mailer Milan Markovic, followed by the second announcement by Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11739	Dear colleagues, Mr. President, I think, however, that in some of the exhibitions, the Institute of Immunity is wrongly interpreted, so I would like two three words of principled character about the institute itself. Namely, the Institute of Immunity involves two components, one is immunity of inviolability and the other is immunity of responsibility. Immunity of responsibility implies that the MP cannot be held accountable for his political position expressed for this speaker or as he votes, and immunity of integrity means no criminal proceedings can be conducted, nor can the MP be detained without Parliament's approval. Both of these components are solely in the function of carrying out a parliamentary duty and are therefore interpreted very closely. If widely interpreted, it could result in very unwanted consequences that are incompatible with the modern state. In fact, if they didn't interpret it this closely, it would be that the MPs were practically and absolutely irresponsible. This does not mean that MPs are exempt from criminal responsibility for criminal acts. If that were the case then we could only use a little before quoted, not exactly, but a metaphor that refers to equal and equal. In that case, if the legislative authority refuses to allow the proceedings of the judicial authority to be carried out in order to determine whether a national emissary is responsible for any work that is put on his burden, which otherwise has nothing to do with the exercise of the parliamentary office, and the accused is re-elected as a MP, and even without it, there could be absolute obsolescence, let's say for crimes where the maximum sentence of one year has been threatened. So it would open the door that each of us MPs can now come out, that is, if the term of office was four years, to go out on the street, to commit such a crime or something shortly before the election, and they would see that they would come into a situation so that they would be virtually irresponsible, and therefore the citizens are unequal, and it is more than obvious that parliamentary immunity really does not mean the right of parliament to block judicial authority in the exercise of their functions. It would then be a precedent, and I still view this as one technical matter, whether it was a respected colleague, Ivokovic or another colleague. So this is one technical matter and the legislative authority is simply obliged to allow the judicial authority to perform its duties. The second thing, which is also wrongly interpreted here, is that we as the most legislative body, as legislators, should appreciate a fundamental criminal act. It is simply not true, and whatever we are Members of Parliament, we must know well what our rights are, what our powers are. We don't have the right to do that, and he's authorized to appreciate it. These two points, which are the basic postulates of modern society, are based on the division of power, especially the relationship between legislative and judicial. It is a small contribution to this principle debate and I think that the whole debate has actually come out of context and it is not good to misread institutes, except institutes that have their own and centuries-old practice and therefore there is no point in interpreting it in the wrong way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11740	Mr. Ivkovic picked up the phone. No more registered speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11741	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear colleagues, I have not taken advantage of the second and third reports. I deeply believe that it will be in a second term, and don't be angry if I spend a minute or two in a third, because you still have to accept that everything that happens here is seen by people who are very dear to me and whose health I care about. First, it is clear about the presentation of the Institute of Immunities that the legislator had reasons when he defined the Institute of Immunities even in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Institute of Immunity is becoming particularly delicate in systems where, forgotten in a recent speech, executive power and how the influence spreads on judicial authority and the legislative body puts opposition MPs in a position and how if they have a weak heart, they would have to think about what the executive authority thinks about them, because already at the next point of the agenda we have a deal on Serbia's judicial system, on those who are employed in it and who are told that on December 31st, both the couriers and judges will be out of work, because a competition under the new law will be called in November. So, clearly, in a series of moves made since October 5th, I apologize to all of you who will decide within a few seconds of my fate, it is clear that there has been a strong interference of the prosecution, and let us say something, although the judiciary in the country of Serbia is well held. The legislator did not state for no reason in Article 77(4) the most common situation, which is that the investigating judge, who was ordered by the prosecutor to carry out the investigation process and verify whether there are elements for the prosecution, invites the MP and introduces him to the case and asks him whether he is calling for immunity or not. I repeat again, like my colleague Canovic here, I would not call for immunity and you will see a little later on why, because my conscience is completely peaceful. I have worked with honor, professional and deep faith that what I supported, in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, especially young people, will continue to function in this country. If I had called for immunity then there would be reason here today for you to discuss whether there's any reason to call for immunity and to decide not to support me in my position, to establish immunity or to say - you're wrong, Bane Ivkovic, we're taking away your immunity. However, the legislator went further. The legislator calculated to further protect the MPs, so he defined Article 77 of Section 5 and gave you the right, unless the MP was called for immunity, to assess that this MP is important to the Assembly and that you set up immunity for him and without the knowledge of the MPs. So that's one extra protection for your fellow MPs, maybe tomorrow for one of you, today for fellow Canovic and myself. And you admit, it's not good, I must say, it's hypocritical to use Article 77 of Section 5, which has been formulated in order to further protect MPs, although he does not want you to expose him to immunity, using it as an excuse for you to take away your colleagues at the moment. Think about it well. I look you right in the eye and I'll remember right away, to tell you how who voted. I will remember well, that you know, for the sake of truth, because Article 77 of Section 5, for your sakes, says, "The National Assembly may decide to apply immunity to the MP and if it did not call upon him when it is necessary to perform his duties." You have the president of the parliamentary group of the strongest opposition party who has not been able to call for immunity, and you use this member where you can further protect him, and precisely because he is the president of the opposition party's parliamentary group, to take away his immunity. So you're working directly against Article 77(5). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So much for that. As for democracy, as regards the principle of any previous speech on immunity, like you, I learned on Friday 13 April, the title: "Ivkovic spent six state millions", "Blic";"The money from the science bill gave to the SPS and the radicals", "Politika" 13 April, the same day; "Today": "The money for science spent in propaganda"; "From science to the SPS", the same day and not to bother you further. So, about democracy, my dear colleagues and colleagues, consider, ask yourself, is it by any chance that on the same day, on the same day in all the daily media, it is with a convincingly simulated guilt about the head of the parliamentary group of the strongest opposition parties in this parliament. Is there correctness, whether there is morality, whether there is democracy or something else, about the direct influence on the judicial authorities by the system -- you have to charge him. In this regard, and for the peaceful conscience of those who will vote against the completely unjust and under the Constitution of the unargued proposal of the administrative commission, here is the financial plan of the Ministry of Science and Technology, for 2000, signed by your fellow MP, then the minister, Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic. On the 30th side of the financial plan, there will be no longer, five minutes tops, on that side, I envisioned as minister for the programme of publishing scientific publications and holding scientific gatherings in the country - 9.5 million dinars, for the programme of training of young people and incentives - 125 million dinars, for the programme of incentives and education of scientific underage - 7.5 million dinars, for promoting and popularising science - one million and two hundred thousand dinars. For these purposes in the financial plan, I've predicted 150 million dinars. Your fellow MP, and then the minister, under the State Administration Act, had absolutely the right to make funds available in accordance with the financial plan's position. One of the accusing things is this, this is 0.01% of those 150 million, and this is a book by a respected man, the pride of these Serbian and Yugoslav citizens, Professor Dr. Laze Kostic. A man who succeeded between the two world wars to betray the theory of probability and statistics, a textbook that was the only textbook at the universities of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, while teaching constitutional law, published textbooks from the Constitutional Law and five significant books from the history of the Serbian people. So that's funding one party. Furthermore, here are photos of competition solutions by Kalenić market - eight excellent authors, bards of architecture, made solutions to Kalenić markets under the auspices of the Association of Architects of Yugoslavia that conducted the competition, evaluated and awarded awards. The future of a part of Belgrade has been financed here, and the awards have been received by scientific workers from the University and the Institute. Maybe the most important thing to me is here. These are scripts for education, for educators, for young people, for your children who can use, there's marijuana, there's heroin, here's all the story about heroin, everything about LSD, everything about ecstasy. My dear colleagues, there's something here you don't think about, it's all about sects. Who are the creationists, who are the Mormons, who are the wicked, who are the New Apostolic Church, what are the Pentagons, what is the sect - the Order of Life, what is the sect - the Free Church, what is the sect - the Universal Life, what is the sect - the Church of Christ, and what is the baptism and so on. Here you will find a story for the children, for our youth. You know, some of these sects in their rituals have human blood drinking and drug use. On FONAS, for the sake of peace, who will vote against this shameful proposal by the administrative commission, delicacies. This is the findings of the financial inspector, the same man who signed a criminal report that I learned on April 13th, Friday, from all the daily newspapers, by accident. The man who signed that criminal report was doing a business report by the Anti-Narcomania Foundation, Alcoholism and Sects Foundation. Seven days before a man might be forced, he did. Here you have the full entry of all three million and two hundred thousand funds and not everything from the Ministry of Science and Technology, into that foundation. He wrote all the expenses of that foundation, accurate and precise, where the money was spent. There's no party anywhere, there's nothing in political life, it's all gone to the Foundation's goals. Therefore, dear gentlemen, you have many reasons to refuse and do not accept this shameful proposal from the Administrative Committee. Shameful, for he uses the constitutional decree, Article 77 of Paragraph 5, which gives you a chance to give protection to those who do not call for immunity, because you estimate that it is needed in the congregation. He's administratively forcing you to take away immunity based on that. I claim publicly, do it, refuse, I will write to the judge myself, I will ask a man to go there in the investigation procedure and give him this file that I have presented to you. And in the end, please don't put yourself in the same basket as our fellow MP Dr. Canovic and myself. It is likely that it is clear to all Serbian citizens that he is an unfortunate man who entered here so as not to simply remove his immunity to Banet Ivkovic. The man was already in the process, his prosecutor refused to press charges against him and it's all over. This is a private criminal report. I'm sure everybody's sorry about what happened to that kid. He's an infectious man, and the kid's been operated on by a tumor. He's just one of the members of the consulate. It's clear to me that he's put up with me so this wouldn't be a political fight with me and with the SPS. Get the man out of this story, at least don't take away his immunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11742	Mr. Jovanovic, first call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11743	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, despite our efforts not to turn this assembly debate into a judicial debate, it has set out in this direction and the obstruction of the concrete acceptance of such a principle would mean an indirect recognition of an argument that does not stand. In today's debate, we inaugurate a rule much more than we point fingers at fellow MPs. Let this vote be a confirmation, not a conviction of article 53. The constitution of Serbia, which says everyone is obliged to adhere to the Constitution and the law and that everyone is obliged to perform a public function in a safe and responsible manner. I'll remind you of the Ministry of Finance's report on the final budget bill for 2000. This, according to Frapantan, report we returned to the Ministry of Finance for not being comprehensive, but this report fully analysed the activities of Mr Ivkovic's Ministry of Science and Technology. The analysis resulted in criminal charges filed by the finance ministry, not only against Mr. Ivkovic, but also against several of his associates. The report finds, among other things, that the Ministry of Science, Technology and Development has misused funds from the budget for the financing of work and payment of services for the SPS account, amounting to 700,000 dinars, to finance FONAS, whose founder is the municipal board of the SPS Vračar, direct payments, 570,000 dinars, and by means of a jury of other legal entities whose work is financed by the Ministry, amounting to 1,700,000 dinars. This ministry has made a non-intentional payment to legal persons, amounting to 409.000 dinars, and there is no legal basis for this, as well as a payment of 1.528 000 dinars, without proof that the paid goods have been taken over or services carried out. The ministry of Mr. Ivković in the business books of the Ministry avoided the recording of business changes, related to business through the business account of science and technological development, because this business was only monitored in the out-of-book record, and it was not up-to-date and messy. In the financial year 2000, 99.3% of the funds of Mr. Ivkovic's ministry or, in concrete numbers, 703,178,000 dinars passed through that special account. We, as MPs, despite the public claims made by the party's MPs, or by the SPS MPs, must meet the request of the judicial authorities. Those who do not participate in the work on this issue of competent congregation working bodies have failed to get acquainted with the very specific requirements addressed from Kragujevac and Belgrade, demands from the Assembly, i.e. We are asked to plead, to deny immunity, although the MPs themselves do not, in their own words, call on us to begin by determining the responsibility of the persons against whom criminal charges have been filed. This assembly must be an example of mutual tolerance and correctness, but the Assembly must not be a place of false co-ordination, as many of you today seem to have thought of themselves and talked about two MPs, knowing best what remains behind their decades of engagement on the political scene of Serbia. I ask you to think a lot more about inauguration of this principle of our responsibility, and much less about political anathema, because this isn't really it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11744	Replica, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11745	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the esteemed head of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr. Ceda Jovanovic, has been extremely helpful to all those who spoke here today, and it was certainly more than 40, 45 debaters. Surely all of us in the hall, as well as the citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission, are asking a key question -- how does the MP Cedomir Jovanovic, who does not work at the Ministry of Finance, who does not work at the Ministry of Finance, who does not work at the Ministry of Finance, who does not work at the prosecutor's office, who does not work in the district court, the data he has read? That's what this is about. This is already slowly one good proof that it is a very organised process for people who are estimated to be given by the opposition parliamentary parties. That's the first one. Secondly, as far as the data has been read, I have made it clear to you that the resolution minister, under the State Administration Act, has absolutely the right and exclusive responsibility to distribute funds under the financial plan. Another thing is that people who have filed criminal charges (I only have it as a assumption, because I have not yet been invited to see it) have been baptized by the names of the parties, and you have seen the book about Professor Dr. Laza Kostic, the book on drugs, narcotics and alcoholism; and, as far as FONAS is concerned, FONAS is an organisation that is legally registered with the Ministry of Culture, an organisation that has 52 university workers and students, an organization that has its own board and which has its own assembly. The organisation has been fully controlled by the same financial inspector, and no failure in the work of the organisation has been established. Imaginations in a criminal report, that someone over a third or fourth party was paying off, are already a story that speaks of pressure, about making accusations. And think about it well - do you all, who choose to vote for this, go into the process yourself? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11746	Third call, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11747	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, looking at everything that's been happening to us in the last ten years, rarely who might have thought that those who were the key actors of these events could really recognize everything that's been happening to us. That's why the parties of the former regime of agony in 1999 could declare our victory, so the economic Sunflowers could declare our economic success, and therefore something that is quite explicit, accessible to every MP, in the form of a final budget account for 2000, could declare something that is exclusive and secret. In July, we discussed the Ministry of Finance's report and the final account for 2000, and we did not accept that report because we returned it because it was not complete, but in the case of Mr Ivkovic, it was comprehensive. The full budget control carried out an analysis of his ministry's work and established facts to be declared by the court, as I am sure there are enough firm MPs in this assembly who are willing to insist on personal responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11748	Replica, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11749	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have a third call, and this should be a replica. In the final account, which you had with you, clearly and loudly in the Department of Science and Technology, among other things, it says that the funded work of the FONAS Foundation is exactly according to the Ministry's financial plan. It's written in the report and nothing else. The second thing is that data production and argumentation towards those environments is thought of as people who can influence within their own party and with their party to the citizens of Serbia, which may be your second goal, but let's just leave it alone, it doesn't matter to you here tonight. The only thing that matters to you is that you have a man standing before you who is not even invited, and if he was invited, he would have gone, and I say now, I will ask to go to the investigative judge, because according to what I am in the organized press release on April 13th, I have read, fully convinced that I am a calm conscience and that I can prove everything from what I have in my possession, unless the documentation has been destroyed, and I do not believe that it is, because I have a correct colleague, Mr Domazette, who is doing his job quite correctly now, within the new Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, I'd go if I were invited, and I want to go and I won't call for immunity, but tonight you're in a position to fight to prove that you are unique in DOS, making you vote for Article 77 of Article 5, which right now gives you the right to help your MP, that you give him immunity, and nowhere in there does it say that you can take away his immunity, if he hasn't previously declared whether he calls or not to immunity. You will be used in a story that will not be proud of you, if you do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11750	Since there is no other way than advertising on the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 99, because the dignity of the Assembly has been offended. Today, a series of lies were made about someone making up tombs, through stories. But this lie in the end, with the book of Laza M. Kostic, that it was a capital act funded by the Ministry as a contribution to science -- here's evidence, the Serbian Radical Party is now selling the same piece by a thousand dinars in its list.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11751	Mr. President, please apply Article 111. Rules of Procedure and votes with a roll call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-09-17-0.u11752	I'm concluding a unique search and we're moving on to a decision. We have a motion to call the vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to make this proposal known. I suppose we can also plead because we have two votes. I ask the MPs to make a statement about this proposal, that the vote should be held by appeal. For 65, against 144 abstentions, there were no two, a total of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I am voting on the proposal of the Administrative Committee that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia not apply immunity, but that it approves the conduct of criminal proceedings against MP Dr Predrag Canovic, case number 461/99, at the request of the Municipality's public prosecutor in Kragujevac. For 131 against 67, with 10 abstentions, five did not vote, a total of 213 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal by majority vote. I would like to vote on the proposal of the Administrative Committee that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia not apply immunity, but to approve the initiation of criminal proceedings against the MP, Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic, case number 339/2001, at the request of the District Court in Belgrade. For 141 against 66, two abstentions, five did not vote, a total of 214 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal by majority vote. This ended the second item of the agenda. I would suggest, and you will declare this proposal, that we continue tomorrow's session at the agenda: the motion for a decision on the termination of functions, the resolution and the choice of legal holders. Please make a statement about this proposal. For 142, against 54, with two abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 205 MPs were present. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the eighth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 165 MPs attend today's session. I find that we have the quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Radomir Naumov, Stanko Kovacevic, Boris Karaičić, Milos Radivojčević, Dusan Golubović, Ljubvoje Slavković, Višnja Nežić, Milena Milosevic, Zaharija Trnavčević, Petar Misic, Neda Arnerić. In the afternoon, Predrag Bajčetic and Vojkan Tomic announced their absence. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We continue to work on the agenda, we move on to the third item of the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go. Mr. Ivkovic has the word.
