ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8207	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Kosovo and Metohija, a Serb wound that does not heal, a myth where we were raised, taught love for our own people and their own country, but also a source of new delusions, failures, failures, what policy has been being conducted in the last decades. The historical mistakes didn't teach us much, we see it in the last days, in the discussions and conclusions offered to us. The biggest problems may arise in 1945 by the arrival of communists and by giving something that no national minority has ever had in another country. In 1974, Kosovo and Metohija are getting a constitution, legislative, executive and judicial authority, becoming a state larger than the state in which it is located. However, that the story is not in it also shows demonstrations in 1981, where it is clearly seen that the Cypriot separatists are trying to separate that part of the Serbian state and attach it to the great Albania. In 1990 and 1991, it may have been a turning point when we could solve the Kosovo issue. We could have solved in combination, on the one hand, to definitely determine which Serbian citizens who live in Kosovo and Metohija, and on the other hand privatisation, to run some mechanisms that would certainly prevent everything that would happen later. However, and 1990/1991. In the following years, Kosovo more serves the regime to win elections, and there is once again a story that there is no national, defined interest among us, there is no basic line below which we will not go, but everything, however, comes down to the skopartish and party interests. And it comes in 1998, when we tried to defend what we could defend, when we tried to save what could be saved. But what we as a people didn't know to define as a national interest, the new world order knew to define as some of its interests. There has been a match in the interest of terrorists in Kosovo with the interests of the new world order. The new world order, defining the protection of civil and national minorities, is trying to justify all of this in the United Nations, and the executioner is taking NATO's pact. By suppressing virtually and collecting the interests of Cypriot terrorists and NATO terrorists, there is a brutal aggression on our country for 78 days, but then we may come to a historic turning point as generations, that even then we have a chance to save Kosovo and Metohija and to definitely solve it. However, there was not enough honesty in those who decided whether to sign the capitulation or to continue the fight to the end, to fight for what is sacred and what is worth fighting for, because it is the only thing worth fighting for, not for something small and worthless. So there is a signing, a bribe in this assembly to sign an agreement, Ahtisaari-Charnomidin, by the SPS and SPS MPs here. So we now come into one situation that we have three documents ahead of us, signed the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin Agreement, the Kumanski Agreement and finally Resolution 1244. So, some of the things that came from the construction of a state that apparently had no foundation and it definitely collapsed on our heads. Will we now continue with these mistakes, re-create one state without foundation, that tomorrow some other part of the roof, whether it is Vojvodina or Sandzak, will fall back on the head of the Serbian people or will definitely come to our senses once again and realize that only by creating its national Serb states for some future generations and times can we leave safety and stability for life and ensure a more lasting peace that you and we all care about, that it definitely rules the Balkan Peninsula once. What is important at this point now is what we must do and what is it that should be taken under diplomacy, under state and national interest or under national and national responsibility? What the government is doing today, it certainly isn't. At no time has there been this aggression in the performances to say - gentlemen from the international community, which you have come, since your arrival there have been 5,400 terrorist actions. Your arrival has caused a great deal of evil, because 1,300 people have been expelled and they don't know where they are. 1,100 people were killed. You don't respect what you signed and promised. That must be the first sentence, the first performance in every conversation we have with the international community. We have to tell them clearly - gentlemen, right now there's something that's a national humiliation that we won't allow, something that's state sovereignty that we won't allow. We can admit to you that you have occupied this territory for us, that you are stronger, that you have everything you use for inhumane purposes and regulation of the new world order, but we cannot admit that it is justice and we cannot leave for future generations to have their hands tied in this new contract, closed all the doors and all the bridges broken down. So, when we were given this to look at, it was defined as conclusions. Gentlemen, we can't talk conclusions here. There's only one resolution we can bring here at one point. The resolution in which we will make it clear - what you are offering, where Serbia is not mentioned, where Yugoslavia is not mentioned, is an act of occupation that we can only accept as coercion, but we cannot verify it in any way in the Assembly. So this is something that is beneath the state's interest, something that is a humiliation to every nation. What is flimsy, which is condescending, which is pale in today's diplomacy, if we can call it that, today's authorities, is also proof that it fits when UNMIK proposes that customs be placed at the border of Kosovo and the rest of Serbia. That's where it fits - don't customs, put your taxes on. It's not a protection of the state's interest. They do not say in one word why there are no customs duties on Albania, why there are no customs duties on Macedonia, that Albanians normally pass as if it were a single state. Why are they introducing customs within a country? It is too soft, and in particular there is no clear strategy how to provide at least partial jurisdiction in some part of Kosovo and Metohija. It is particularly important that it is shown that, as we did not have a national strategy, so we do not have it today. The national strategy of the new government absolutely does not exist. One word does not define what certain people in Kosovo and Metohija who decide, above all Serbs, and us here, in some way in a common story. We should have talked earlier about what a national strategy is today towards Kosovo and Metohija, what is a minimum of national interest, what is a line below which we will not go under, but rather talk about some conclusions that are mildly related to national interest. We need to define that national strategy, first of all and towards the people who live there. Rada Trajkovic can't go and travel with Thaci and Rugova, just to take some foreign currency diaries and talk about protecting national interest. The bishop of Artemis can't tell a story that's just tied up - what the Americans say, it should be accepted. And on the third hand that we have people here, who came out of Kosovo and who said -- we will defend that northern part of Kosovo to the end, because it is our country, because this is where we live and have to survive, because it is both our interest and Serbia's interest. So we in that part of the territory, which is now in such a difficult situation, do not have a common strategy. Everyone's telling another story because there's no story in Belgrade that binds them. As long as we're so divided, we can't talk about diplomacy or protecting our national and national interests. So what matters and what needs to be thought about is what the future is, and where we are today. We had a past and we talked about that past. Unfortunately, she didn't teach us much. But what are we going to leave in the future? Are we going to leave a document that will tie our hands to all future generations or are we going to say -- we're the generation that said -- you occupied us, one is that space, and what tomorrow will be, we'll see. International relations can change, there may be new stories in the world, when we will be ready at any moment to return to that Kosovo. That's what they need to be told openly. They have to think like that, and they have to come before them, when they bring in these constitutional frameworks, as they've been called, to think that tomorrow might happen that we're going to ask for it again, and that we're going to go back there. There's nothing eternal in this world. When Pilate judged Christ in his day, he thought that the Roman Empire would be eternal, that it was this sanctity where all future generations would be taught, which would be something sacred. However, it turned out that the Roman Empire had fallen apart, that Pilate had disappeared, and the teachings of Christ remained exactly what was holy, though he had put it on the cross and sent it to Golgoth. That's why I'm saying we have to say no to this. But to refuse with one story that does not bear the desire that we fight with them now, to fight war. No one cares. But we need to tell them clearly, resolutely -- gentlemen, we have a resolution, we have a strategy, and we can't go below that. You think about why you're breaking what you signed. And responsibility and the ball must be in their backyard, because they are the first ones to sign, who are responsible for the situation in Kosovo. They're responsible for 1,300 missing, they're responsible for 1,100 deaths, they're responsible for everything that's going on, burning houses, expelled people. (President: Time. ) Therefore, when they resolve their responsibility, when they resolve what they have signed, and they have to do it, they are an international community, it is not good to break what they say, then we can continue the story and then we can continue some discussion on Kosovo and Metohija's further status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8208	The word has a folk MP Vuko Antonijevic, followed by a folk MP, Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8209	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, if we are talking about constitutional frameworks today, it is something we could expect, although we Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija thought no greater evil could happen to us after Mr. Kouchner. Unfortunately, something much worse has happened. Mr. Hans Heckerup is nothing better than Mr. Kouchner. Mr. Kouchner, when he accepted the peace mission, said he understood Shiparian rematchism. This was followed by terrible Shipatarian crimes, and what happened was the worst that could have happened in Kosovo and Metohija. The Cypriots may have missed one historic chance to actually build a state, not to ban the Serbs and not to commit a crime against Serbs and Serb saints. They no longer have that moral right and the world has to understand and must respect, after so many crimes have taken place in the presence of so many international representatives, in the presence of the NATO Pact, so-called. International peace missions. So whoever was previously identified as a victim becomes a criminal. They've been there before, but now it's quite clear. To discuss the constitutional framework, we all agreed, there was a meeting of the federal government, the Republic government, representatives of Serbs from Kosovo, the Serbian Orthodox Church, representatives of political parties. What we only agreed on, that this constitutional framework for Serbs and other non-Albanian ethnic communities in Kosovo and Metohija is unacceptable. We need to see what we need to do next. What is our greatest danger is the sale of Serbian properties, Serbian houses and Serbian apartments in Kosovo and Metohija. Because desperate Serbs have no other thing than after two years, when they no longer see the prospect of being able to return, they start selling their homes. That state could do a lot. The state could form one fund for Kosovo, which is as much trade as our state has with the Shiptars, with Kosovo, so that only 5% of it goes to Kosovo and Metohija to separate for one fund. Because no one can stop anyone from selling their house and property. It's his right, but the state can buy it and it's owned by the state of Serbia and Yugoslavia. That way we can keep that space for one period. What is happening in Kosovo and Metohija, I think that no one in the world is happening and that there is no more suffering people than the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija are currently suffering. We know that Kosovo is almost ghettoized. We know all the tragedy, but the Serbs remain. Fortunately, there are us from Charplana to Kosovo Mitrovica, to Kosovo Pomoravia. The most compact part in Kosovo and Metohija is the northern part. It's 10% of the territory that Serbs hold in that part. We have a compact territory and a compact population, and I think it almost lives the same way in Serbia. The biggest problem is that these days the international community is trying to get past Resolution 1244 to introduce customs checkpoints. There's a lot of work that the same state can do. We expected that the state would not accept that representatives of the Republic and the Federal Government negotiate behind our backs and agree to place customs checkpoints on the administrative line between southern and central Serbia. Unfortunately, I think there have already been calls from Kosovo and Metohija today, that customs checkpoints are expected to be set up. No matter how much tax charges are charged there, anything on the border line is charged, and whether it's called tax, customs, excise or whatever, it's the same for us. Our biggest problem is that we don't want to be separated from our queen, we're definitely lost. We want to belong and we want to pay taxes to this state of Serbia. The fact that the state has freed the Serbian people from sales taxes is still saying that this same state of ours admits in fact that, because the goods are being exported, so the tax on transport is being released. So it only helped us not to pay double taxes on the same goods, to avoid double taxation. The goods that go to Kosovo and Metohija are exempt from tax with a story that that's what they do for Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. It's a little help for us. We prefer to pay our country the same taxes, because from our country we get those salaries and everything that is out of those taxes. It's that thread that binds us to our queen. You shouldn't have done that to us. You were supposed to negotiate, and I am sorry that there is no one here from the Republic government, says who negotiated and who agreed that after 35 days of Serbian protests, Serbian barricades, in the rain and in bad weather, customs checkpoints are being restored. That's not correct. In another period, the state can do the same much, all those institutions of the Serbian state, all those pillars of statehood can do as much as possible. It is not true that the state of Serbia is being demonized by itself, in fact, when UNMIK enters with money, he finds Serbs who accept, these modern, cooperative, European Serbs, who accept their own state to demonize from Kosovo's Metohic space for the creation of a new multiethnic society, in fact, there is still the creation of a new freak phantom Shipage state. Serbs should be decor. What is fundamental to Resolution 1244 has not been fulfilled by the international community, which is security for Serbs and others. Except for Albanians, there is no security in Kosovo and Metohija. There is no freedom of movement, because Serbs from the enclaves can move freely only when it is good will of the international community to provide escorts, to supply themselves with the most basic provisions of life. So, besides security, the key moment is to preserve that most Serbian part of the space, and that's the return. The international community does not want Serbs back, does not want to or may not be able to do so. Maybe they won't mind their allies this morning, the Shiptars. Without going back, count on our survival, even though the northern part is compact territory, comes into question. If he doesn't come back, and not the symbolic one, as the Americans predict, with 50 people, it doesn't mean anything, it's just an unfulfilled project. If nothing else, the state can move the edges, because whoever's stopping the state from Serbia or Yugoslavia from building transit centres and having our unfortunates, who are currently living in some collective centres, return them there, at least to be closer to Metohija and central Kosovo. Serbs can return to the north, build transit centres and slowly put pressure on the international community. They are in debt, they boasted that in a week they returned 700, 800 thousand Shiplars, and before, of course, they bombed this unfortunate state, they broke it, though big and sure, we're not asking for someone to bomb the Cypriots to return the Serbs. That obligation has been taken over by Resolution 1244, although that resolution is not something we are happy about. Perhaps it is a good basis for resolving this difficult Kosovo crisis. What the state can do, and what's very important, is education. We had a lot of problems because education is trying to fit into Serbian education, to move into some UNMIK education, and what the predecessors said was just a transitional form, it's a Cypriot education. Health care too. We didn't put it in the north. For two years, we bare-handedly resisted the pressure of both Shipara and the international forces, because we didn't give up our schools, and our universities and hospitals, and that kept us going. The international community is not so capable of disorienting all these institutions of Serbian statehood there, although it leaves the Shiptars to commit crimes, to commit debauchery and sanctity to suppress and all that was Serbian in those areas. They are not capable, and they have shown that even the former local self-government, even though they were allergic to socialist rule, could not relax for two years. They disbanded her when they acquired our people, with whom they could manipulate, of course with some story of making someone new, modern, Kosovo civil society, where they're already treating us in their own country. But we're a national minority, we're second-class citizens there.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8210	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8211	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8212	The People's MP Sreten Mitrovica has the word, followed by the MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8213	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if the international community accepts a document called the Constitutional Framework for Self-Government in Kosovo, it means that not only has it denied the right for Serbs and other non-Albanians to live peacefully and protect their rights, but it has given up the goal it has declared itself -- democratically and multinationally Kosovo. Hans Hekerup made an agreement with Albanians that is the basis for an independent state in Kosovo, which is contrary to Resolution 1244. Such an agreement will certainly not and must not be accepted by Serbs and Montenegrins. Before passing and declaring by Hans Hekerup, so-called Kosovo and Metohija's temporary constitution, which was rejected by all Serbian amendments, and all the Cypriot requirements accepted, met among some relevant factors, Serbian parties and groups from Kosovo and Metohija with the highest state summit. The Kosovo Serbs held a meeting with Yugoslav President Vojislav Kostunica, where Zoran Zizic, the president of the federal government, Zoran Djindjic, the Prime Minister of the Republic and Resolute Ministers Vladan Batic and Obren Joksimovic were present. What has prompted these talks is the absolute unity of representatives of all political options, groups and associations of Serbs and Montenegrins from Kosovo and Metohija and the top of the state, that in order to survive Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and in order to preserve the territory of the Serbian state, the constitutional framework cannot be accepted, because it is contrary to United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244. A high degree of consent has been expressed that it cannot access the signing of any document, nor go to any elections until special conditions are secured by KFOR and UNMIK. First of all, freedom of movement should be ensured for all citizens, personal property security, return to their hearths and determine the fate of the kidnapped and missing persons. As far as meeting these conditions, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, it has been two years since the signing of the peace agreement and since the arrival of a peacekeeping mission in Kosovo and Metohija, which was meant to establish order and peace in this Serbian province. The mission has enabled and established such a rule of violence and terror, such as the Serbian people have never experienced before, despite many deaths in their thousands of years of long history. Since the first days, the mission has turned into its opposite and declared itself to be an open protector of the Cypriot separatists and terrorists. The so-called peace mission has only left disastrous consequences so far. About 350,000 exiled Serbs and Montenegrins, and other ethnic groups, non-Albanian belongings, over 50,000 demoted, to the foundations burned and from Albanians possessed by their houses, apartments, economic buildings and other buildings. Which is the hardest and most tragic, close to five thousand killed, wounded, and kidnapped persons, whose fate, for them, is about 1,500, knows nothing today. In those two incomplete years, Albanian terrorists have demoted, destroyed to the ground and burned down hundreds of churches, monasteries and other Serb deities. At the same time, they destroyed over 10,000 icons, icons, other church relics and sacral objects. They also burned about three million books of Serbian and foreign authors printed in Serbian. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the result of international peacemakers, where Albanian terrorists rightly see their protectors. The saddest and most tragic thing about it is that those who led us to it, among whom the most numerous are those who bombed us for 78 days, are now trying to turn our victims into executions and themselves into victims and peacemakers. Now these peacemakers continue to realise their plans in Kosovo and Metohija, which are contrary to all that is in the resolution and other documents of the Serbian organisation in Kosovo and Metohija. Two of them are their basic course of this monstrosity. Further ethnic cleansing of Kosovo and Metohija from anything that is not Albanian and the extraction of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia-Yugoslavia's constitutional justice system. They have made their local elections, and are now preparing so-called parliamentary and presidential elections. This assembly, ladies and gentlemen, should raise a stronger voice against this plot of the Serbian people and the world organisation. As for freedom of movement, ladies and gentlemen, I come down from central Kosovo and, unlike my colleagues, who are in the northern part of Kosovo, I must say that the situation in the central part of Kosovo remains very critical after two years. Serbs and Montenegrins in Serb enclaves can only move in those enclaves where they live. If they move outside those enclaves, every moment their lives are in danger. Any movement outside the enclave is with the help of KFOR soldiers or UNMIK police. It's hard to describe in words. Anyone who doesn't experience it can't shine. I will make only one example of the remaining 37 students, who live in Pristina, each day travel to the elementary school in Laplem Sela, which is six or seven kilometers from the city, go along with Italian carabiniers and Greek special units, going one bus ahead, behind two armored vehicles and on both sides two armored transport vehicles of police officers. All of us who want to get to the central part of Serbia, we have to sign up 72 hours in advance. Imagine how many have relatives and want to visit their exiles and relatives, in the central part of Serbia, if they fail to apply, risking their lives, and so many have disappeared. A lot has been said here by my previous colleagues from Kosovo and Metohija as regards property, and at this point, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the most difficult problems in Kosovo and Metohija. Serbian property has been usurped by Albanians and Serbian apartments and Serbian houses today, and the international community has done nothing to free Serb apartments two years later. The most tragic thing is that mass sales. Albanians are strategically buying Serbian properties and Serbian apartments and thus conquering Serbian territories. This home and this congregation must do something if we are to preserve Kosovo and Metohija. What Albanian terrorists fail to put pressure on, as well as in various ways, is now being done with the help of the international community, which gives huge funds to buy out Serbian properties. At a meeting with President Kostunica and other state leaders, it was said that the presence of the state in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, since the arrival of the DOS coalition in power, has been quite negligible, except for the president of the Committee, namely the Federal Committee, which is down from Cosmeta and down, ladies and gentlemen. No representative of the state government has come to visit and visit this Kosovo people to see how they live there. They may have been in the northern part of Mitrovica, but in central, in these southern and part of the Bezovica that are ethnically pure, they certainly are not. The day-to-day problems are, ladies and gentlemen, aside from those that we have from Shipara and UNMIK, and the problems that are amongst us that we are doing down there state institutions. The state of Serbia must have its clear views, and here predecessors have raised problems in the functioning of state institutions. So, in the functioning of health care, in the functioning of education, in the functioning of local self-government, which, ladies and gentlemen, nobody has solved down there yet, and we know that the local elections in Kosovo and Metohija have not been. I must point out, ladies and gentlemen, that's where the unauthorized and illegal personnel changes are being made. I would not like to open it at this meeting, where the fate of Kosovo and Metohija is debated, and therefore I ask the representatives of the Federal and Republic Government to form as quickly as possible their teams that will, in accordance with the law, help Serbs stay in these areas. Another agreement is that self-appointed leaders who perform are Serbian people and have no support for their families, do not discuss and sign any documents on behalf of the Serb people in the future. As for signing and talking with UNMIK and KFOR representatives and deciding on state issues, we agreed that legitimate state representatives should discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8214	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8215	In the hope that this home will surely understand this very difficult problem of Serbs, predominantly Serbs and Montenegrins in Kosovo and Metohija, and in order to return those who have been expelled, we hope that the working group will take firm and stronger stances and we will welcome better days in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8216	The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic, followed by Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8217	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament are not present at the session today, and whether this is precisely showing their relationship to Kosovo and the Metohija, you can judge it yourself. Kosovo and Metohija form the basis of Serbian culture and civilization. In Kosovo and Metohija are monuments of history and culture from the Middle Ages. Kosovo and Metohija are for Serbs the same as the sacred city of Jerusalem for Jews. As early as the 15th century in Kosovo and Metohija Shipari did not make up 10% of the population. The above facts suggest that Kosovo and Metohija are Serbian historical and state law of Serbia and that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia, the national interest of our society, the interest of all Serbian citizens. Dear People's MPs, I remind you that the Serbian Radical Party is the only political party that opposed the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin Agreement in parliament and you who were not in parliament at the time were in favour of accepting the plan. Serbian radicals asked for a session, which decided on the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, to be public. That's denied. The president of the Serbian Radical Party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, argued at the session the execution of the plan and all the suspicions unfortunately came true. We pointed out what was happening in Republika Srpska and said the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija were also waiting for it. Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia and Serbia's Renewal Movement, despite all the arguments of Serbian radicals, accepted all this shameful agreement. Since then, there has been an even greater loss of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, mass murder, kidnapping, robbery, destruction of property, emigration. In Uroševec today, although there were 8,000 Serbs, there were only seven women and one man of Serbian nationality left. All the time of aggression, I was on the first battleline in the Kachikola area, as well as most of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs, and I claim that the fighters, as the greatest Serb patriots, were ready to persist in the defence of this sacred Serbian country. On the news of accepting a foreign agreement, be assured, many have cried. Many of you who are now in power, who have taken responsibility for the fate of the state, have then hesitated, looking forward to the arrival of foreign troops, which you called a guarantee of peace and security. During the aggression and shortly before the aggression, you traveled around the world, dumped on the Serbian people, talked about a regime that violates fundamental human rights, above all Shiptara and created a suitable climate for what happened and what is happening now. In the pre-election campaign, DOS promised that the problem in Kosovo and Metohija would be resolved immediately after the regime changed in Serbia. You said there was a problem in the regime, amnesting the Ship's terrorists and so on. the international community of responsibility. You didn't keep your promises because it wasn't your intention. You've grown to work with the occupier, you've engaged in the work of the occupation government, thus acknowledging the legitimacy of the occupation and the occupation government. You did everything they asked of you. You released Flora Brovina, amnested the hard-working Cypriot criminals, without any Serb being freed, or something is known about the fates of the missing. You were more afraid for the fate of the Shipatarian terrorists than for Serbian prisoners. You said you had the affection of the whole world, that your friends would help you get Kosovo and Metohija back into Serbia's constitutional order. Instead, we got the Constitution of Kosovo, the president of Kosovo and the right of the Kosovo occupation government to sign international contracts. This creates a new Albanian state in the Balkans. You agreed, in addition to the Parliament's knowledge, that tax and excise charges could be set up. Civil administrator Hans Hekerup is setting customs duties at the administrative border, although the process is significantly coming out of Resolution 1244, which guarantees that Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia under international administration. All smart people realize that this is the way to turn administrative into an interstate border and a path to detach the cosmetic Serbs from the queen. Now you're putting all these negative consequences of your devastating anti-patriot policy in front of the National Assembly with great delay in amnesty. You must understand, you are the authority and you are responsible for this condition. You count on our proven patriotism and on having the support of Serbian radicals whenever it comes to defending national interests and preserving the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the state. We have proven this many times, but what has been the May 4th Resolution? Just a dead letter on paper. Prime Minister Djindjic himself admitted that the government is not in a position to offer a solution and to guarantee that such a solution can be implemented by the government. The constitutional framework, though reportedly has a temporary character, prejudges the final solution of Kosovo and Metohija by creating a new Albanian state, thus moving Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija away from its queen. What may give hope and optimism is that all MPs, absolutely, no matter what party orientation they belong to, whether they come from Kosovo and Metohija or live on in Kosovo and Metohija, are unique about this attitude around Kosovo and Metohija, and maybe it only gives hope and maybe it should be a guideline of how we should all behave, at least in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8218	The People's MP Zivko Selakovic has the word, followed by the MP Ljubodrag Grbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I never get to say hello to Mr. Prime Minister. The piece of Serbia, very well known and all, was started by that famous 1974 Constitution, whose creator and author is well known to all of us and then the uncut Joseph Broz. Joseph Broz did not want to do so immediately in a transparent way, even though he had unlimited authority, he left it to the Serbs themselves later. He knew that he was always among the Serbs and that a future Vuk Brankovic would be found and that Kosovo and Metohija would separate from Serbia's own mother and hand it over to someone else, as if it were a personal, private chaukundovina of an individual, not the sanctity of all Serbs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a very important document ahead of us, as the authors called it the Constitutional Framework for Temporary Self-Government in Kosovo and Metohija. This work, better said crime, Mr Hans Hekerup, and the greatest layman and anyone who reads this document will immediately see that this document has the full attributes of an independent state at will, measure and will to be called the Kosovo Republic or the Republic of Kosovo, by their choice. Which means having your president, your currency, your official language, your coat of arms, your anthem and everything else that's written in this document. The conclusion is also clear to the most illiterate man, which is that Mr. Hans Hekerup, or the entire international community, with its bariatrictar of the United States, is this document, as our people say with his wise saying, "a tour of the horn instead of a candle". That in this document, I have even less confidence, even more reason to fear losing Kosovo and Metohija is that Nebojsa Covic is the main man in negotiations with Mr Hans Hekerup and all other international representatives, who have seen from all to date the only goal of cutting SRJ, Serbia and the secession of Kosovo and Metohija, as I said earlier, of Serbia's mother and the creation of an independent Albanian state on SRJ soil, that is, in Serbia's heart. For us, MPs from the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group, the recent statement by Neboja Covic on the Kosovo and Metohija split proposal is unacceptable. We are wondering who gave him the right to talk about it, which from the reaction of his coalition partners concludes that we have reason to doubt the honesty and good intentions of the text offered in this document. For us, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party, it is clear that we cannot wage war against the whole world and save Kosovo and Metohija on the military plan, but we do not understand that anyone can, apart from all our interests, accept devastating solutions and even possibly lasting loss of Kosovo and Metohija. As always, the MPs' Club of the Party of Serbian Unity does not lead a barren discussion, but constructive and with the intention that for each problem arises, it either proposes reasonable solutions and, above all, acceptable to all of us. (The messenger, below, read the declaration in eight points, proposed on behalf of the first National Assembly by MP Ljubomir Mirkovic - sees the register. ) I would especially like to emphasise this (the reason for "inventing" the freezers full of Albanian corpses), because I am also the father of two sons, who also took part in the defence of the previous Yugoslavia in 1992, and even now, throughout the aggression in Cosmet. I've suffered for many days, waiting for this to come to me, and I'm deeply offended by the fact that every soldier and policeman is being dumped, and you see, by these documents, every soldier and policeman delivered to The Hague can be very easily.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8220	There's a word from the People's MP Ljuboljug Grbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8221	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would say that the solution to the Kosovo problem today for the Serbian side is much more expensive than ever before, but it is still there, solutions must be accepted and maximumist demands on both sides and all in favour of compromise. All future solutions must contain guarantee mechanisms on both sides. What are the real interests of the Serbian, Serbian and Serbian state today? First, it is an interest for citizens of Serbia and the Serbian people to have a state that will not fall apart every 30 or 50 years and for which great forces will have no reason to look favorably at this decomposition. So that it has a state and that this state, in addition to internal stability, also has a long-term geopolitical and geostrategic purpose of existence. In second place, it is the interest of Serbian citizens to live well. As banal as it may seem, this interest, given our historical experience, is very important, and many generations of Serbs, unfortunately, are unattainable. So that they have a job and a standard, which guarantees a human and quality life, worthy of modern European, and not the prospect that every 30 or 50 years they take weapons and lose their lives for goals that are the subject of subsequent debates on purpose and legitimacy. In third place is strengthening the overall political, economic, military and civilization power of the Serb people, but such strengthening of the overall power that will not be the subject of the challenge of major forces or neighbouring peoples. The power that is often challenged is not power, but the basis for war, and we do not want to see it, not because we are weak, but because we are reasonable people. The fourth place is the ability to adapt to the modern world. We can't afford to set up a pattern for development, to start potential, to watch something be spent. Following is an explanation - adapting our policy and economy is not worth it if it is late in fundamental changes and Serbia's fundamental turns towards the West. If such a shift lags behind, if the state of Serbia remains outside this structure of power, respect for minority rights and the development of civil democracy, and the adjustment of the economy will not be successful, because we will remain out of the space in which such values have a purpose and which are even possible. New democracy is not affected by dreams of fast European integration, only on the basis of good will in Western Europe. Such integration will probably not be for long. Hence, I would affirm another principle from the positive historical experience of this state of Serbia, which is the principle of agreements and settlements. These settlement relations aren't the kind of thing to hide. Not because of the participants, not because of the citizens. On the contrary, as a principle of exchange of interest, the settlements are also a way for our country to develop Western Europe, in its form - stability for development. At this point, I think that the only option for a better life for citizens - peace, security, stability, economic prosperity, social security, human happiness and the urgent capture of steps with modern European, economic, security, political and military integration, not against someone, but for themselves and for the better life of their children. We Serbs shouldn't love Europe. We should love Serbia. We should love ourselves, our children and our lives. Ladies and gentlemen, the most common choice in national politics is between two evils. Let's not pick up, pick out less, but let's move on. Dear fellow MPs, first of all, I am starting from the fact that this assembly should have been declared a constitutional assembly of the state of Serbia. Secondly, that this assembly in taking strategic positions with Europe without delay should bring a declaration of accession to the Partnership for Peace and a declaration of the foundations of a settlement between Serbia and the European Union, based on a permanent solution after a temporary and thus sets the limits for the expansion of the NATO Pact to the southeast. Therefore, while respecting this security structure, a two-way process is under way to balance the U.S. military-political interest and strengthen the identity and structures of European defence. Thirdly, when Serbia becomes a European state, a country of the region, and makes use of the constitutional capacities that we now have in the Assembly, which are of historical importance, a process can be opened in which Europe, the European Union and Serbia, through a historic settlement, can create Kosovo as a European region, deeply integrated in the mechanisms of development, economy, security, security of Europe. If this assembly of strong forces is to approach the issue in the way I have expressed in the previous two positions, the state of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia and the Serbian people are able to also be a region of the region or canton as a European region. The academics Jovičić, Bataković and Krstic wrote about it very successfully, and in the experiences of Denmark, Spain, the Netherlands, Italy and Switzerland. Then also in this case, Kosovo is a region of regions or canton and it is our basic axis of compromise in further upgrading of the basic framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. Fourthly, Kosovo should become a Euro-region based on the Europe-Serbia agreement. I am convinced that the state of Serbia today with this session needs to pursue a historic necessity, which is that Kosovo's sovereign affairs are permanently transferred already now or in due course to the European structures in which Serbia is also participating. This would make no sense to translate Kosovo and Metohija into the identity of the great Albania, which is not a European response to the challenges of history in the Balkans. This brings us to the only solution -- we will have Serbia as much as we need, and we will have Europeans as many seas in Kosovo. I believe that, apart from the idea that I was talking about, if Serbia is a state of the region, then Kosovo is the autonomy of the region, and I think that the political community of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, if it is set up as a community of citizens ready for European state policy, can in a political sense be a balance in the interim bodies of Kosovo between political and democratic, pro-European and retrograde national options of Albanians, which Europe will be able to appreciate in this establishment of historical balance in the Balkans. My final conclusion is that instruments of classical sovereignty can solve little in Europe and the Balkans today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8222	The word has the People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj, the third announcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8223	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this parliamentary debate on the Kosovo issue, which takes place here for the second time in this term, shows all the sterileness of the DOS government and its willingness to give up Kosovo and Metohija. We saw this yesterday from Stanko Kovacevic's presentation, very transparent -- what you DOS would say -- and just before, I don't know what it's called a folk MP who spoke. You see it as a big ballast and you'd love to give up that ballast. You would love to write off Kosovo and Metohija, but you don't know how to do it, because you are in a gap between a warrant of Western forces and will and the mood of your own people. You would like to meet all the demands of the Western forces, and you are afraid that the people of Serbia will respond to that. Secondly, you think that there is enough explanation for the sacrifice of Serbian national interests is economic interest. We've seen that no more serious aid from the West will be. What Labus has been negotiating and getting loans so far, it's mostly used to pay interest on already existing loans back in Titus's day. That's where you had to look for another variant, by beating up war damage, but no one had the courage to publicize it, but you even suspended a lawsuit before The Hague Court of Justice concerning NATO's aggression pact on our country. There are certain solutions here in the long run. It is obvious that international circumstances are not suitable for the Serbian people, that the Kosovo and Metohija issue is being resolved immediately today. If we are not comfortable with international circumstances, it may not be appropriate for another 10 years, then we must not show impatience in the final solution. It is not our goal to resolve the legal and political status of Kosovo and Metohija as soon as possible, but to delay this resolution until the relationship between the great forces is changed, or until some of their geopolitical interests are corrected. And in that case, we must not cooperate with the Western forces when they lead an open anti-Serbian policy. We have a way to at least say we don't accept it, we won't do it. And we can also withdraw some legal-political measures in that case. We, unfortunately, do not currently have the Constitutional Court of Serbia. You promised us, President, that the Constitutional Court would be filled in so that it could function normally. That promise hasn't been fulfilled yet. That was before I got kicked out of the National Assembly. And, look, it's been over a month, there's nothing. What's one of those methods? The Constitutional Court will consider any legal act by the occupiers in Kosovo and Metohija. And to say -- that, that and that is contrary to the Serbian Constitution. That, and that is contrary to that and that international legal act, starting with the UN declaration and beyond. The strangers won't get scared. You don't have to caricate it like that. Those of you who are used to not thinking for yourselves or who are unable to think for themselves are the easiest things for you to think about. No one will be afraid, but our legal position is stronger and we, on our part, can cover international institutions with various legal acts by our state authorities. Each time to the Security Council - the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia or the Federal Constitutional Court on the matter. This is not in line with Resolution 1244, nor with the Kumanovski Agreement, it is not in line with the Chernomidin-Ahtisari Plan, it is not in line with the Constitution of Serbia or the SRJ -- it is one variant. No rush. And secondly, the Serbian government must not help in Kosovo and Metohija those who immediately, on the first day, placed themselves in the service of occupiers and served him to this day, such as Rada Trajkovic, Momcilo Trajkovic, bishop of Artemia, etc. They have already been so compromised in the Serbian people that sin, both in front of God and in front of people, is giving them political support. You should help the remaining Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija establish and choose their own political representatives. That hasn't happened yet. There are, however, single representatives, especially in northern Kosovo and Metohija, who legitimately represent a certain group of people who trust them. They're from different parties. But it would be good for the Serbian government to help them gather, conduct some elections within the Serbian ethnic community, which would be joined by other ethnic communities living in the area, and who would then have their own teams, who could represent them. That would be the way, because fighting for Kosovo and Metohija will take a long time. You must not allow us to impose any new constitutional project for Yugoslavia, which would mean Kosovo to be one federal unit and Vojvodina's second federal unit. But if you really honestly think you're going to save Serbia, you need to figure out as soon as possible with these traitors of yours in Vojvodina, which are for open separatism. You cannot act here to protect Serbia, and in Vojvodina your same DOS leads a completely different policy. Are those two DOSs? No, they're not. It's all one DOS. Then tell the people where you're playing. Do you play here by guarding Serbia or acting in Vojvodina, seeking the secession of Vojvodina from Serbia in any way: enhanced autonomy, republics, federal units, confederal, independent Vojvodina. All this is present in DOS policy in Vojvodina. Don't act any more. Make a nice statement to the end. It's also better because of some consolidation of yours, to make your point and clear these things up. In the end, no one who served the Western forces came across their respect or long-term support. He drains it, so whoever squeezes lemons into the trash of history. Learn this also in the case of Balkan politicians and other politicians around the world. General Noriega's case is so striking that it shouldn't leave you in any delusion that our ministers, by order of the Western bosses, are making a lie. Vladan Batic spoke in the National Assembly about a freezer in Kokin's Ship. This is where he used to say it. (loud from the O.R.): That's not true. How is it not true? Get a stenogram. This is where he said it, in the National Assembly. How can he remain a minister after that? Or Dusan Mihajlović, can't find any bodies...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8224	Mr. Seselj, you're off topic. We're talking constitutional frameworks.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8225	This is the topic, this is all about Kosovo. These imaginary coolants burden our international and legal position on Kosovo and Metohija. Nothing makes our position any more difficult now than those imaginary coolers. Instead of Dusan Mihajlovic finding at least one single corpse, he increases the number of invented corpses every day. People, you see, who's so stupid, if he's already hiding corpses, to push and cooler. First, with the help of the freezer, everything will be easier to find. Each cooler is worth about 300.00 marks. Think about it. Don't let those children's stories serve you so easily. That's what someone came up with. A lot of people here stick to what's out there. That's what this American ambassador, as it is called, has this Sean Sullivan, and there's this Montgomery guy, who's gonna remember them all. I don't know how you remember them, how you don't get caught up in the vertigo from whom you're all getting warrants for your political actions, for your political behavior. Now you can't wait for the debate on Kosovo to end, to adopt some conclusion that will not bind anyone, and everything as it is. And you get in from the stained veins to participate in every debate, in every conversation, in every project around Kosovo and Metohija. Here we need to make it clear -- nothing that is not in line with the Resolution, the Kumanov Agreement and the Chernomidin Plan -- Ahtisaari, will not be accepted. You say now that he won't, Covic says something else tomorrow, this one says something third, Batic will invent a new freezer. I don't know, maybe they'll find a cooler on Addi Giganlia too. That's why it's a bad variant. Condemnity didn't help anyone. The more condescending you are to the Western powers, the greater their demands will be. Here's a case of your predecessors. The Socialists, whenever they gave in to the Western forces, when Milosevic gave in, their demands were growing. (President: Time. ) They thought if they sacrificed the Serbian Krajina that Western forces would stop at that. They didn't stop. They're headed for Republika Srpska. They thought if they accepted the Dayton Agreement and sacrificed part of Serbian interests, they would stop. They didn't stop. They're going to Kosovo. It won't stop as long as they're comfortable with it. And since the healing of our economic situation under the Western recipe, there's nothing. And that tells you the experience of Bulgaria, Romania, Russia, Macedonia and many other countries. Don't count on that, too. What you've done for these eight months of DOS authorities, it's that you've halved the poor standard of the people in Serbia anyway. Today you live much harder than you lived in August of last year. Today is a much more unbearable social situation. You live much better, because you've tripled your salary to all of us here in the Assembly. We now have five times as much pay as we had under previous authority. Here, let's count, let's see what the parliamentary salary was last year, it was less than 5,000 dinars in August last year, and now it's more than 20,000 dinars. Take care of that. Just because you've improved your social standards doesn't mean the people are better.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8226	You never hear me. I've got to yell and give you a signal. (Whoo, whoa, whoa,... )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8227	I'm sorry, what were you asking me?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8228	I've only told you twice that you've exceeded your time, as it says in your class.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8229	What was the last thing you asked me?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8230	I didn't ask you anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8231	I was ready to answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8232	What would I have to ask you? The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic, followed by MP Dragan Vuksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8233	The Honorable Presidency, esteemed fellow MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, has fallen into the part where, entering today's debate, eventually makes a historically ungrateful conclusion regarding the constitutional framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, thus affecting the determination of Kosovo's final destiny and Metohija. Fellow MPs, a previous assembly of the Assembly, made a decision to accept Resolution 1244 of the UN, on the entry of KFOR and UNMIK forces into this most sacred country, so that the decision from today's position, and then the opposition, was mostly criticised, and today the first or last sentences of all, and the positions and opposition, begin with the only desire, hope and commitment that this Resolution 1244 remain in force. It is also in Articles 2 and 3. The government's conclusion is made. It is certain, dear fellow MPs, that 250 MPs of this assembly will call us together, thought one way or another, spoke or kept silent, today will be recorded for history, and time will show how much our fault will be. We can think of it one way or another, looking for justification in the faults of others, but the youngest, with the most energy, who opened and built this house, and those the oldest, who participated in and the wisest of lives, will ultimately take the same responsibility for what we do today. If we were to act on the reasons in the SMIP Information on the Constitutional Framework for Kosovo, which, practically, was adopted by the Federal Government, then we should just welcome this document, so that we do not re-prove the anger of the large and the strong and so that it does not fall into isolation itself again, thus causing the implementation of the Constitutional Framework without our presence. However, it seems, as the Government said, that we still have to act by looking and insisting, to take steps and actions in order to impose the necessary need to implement Resolution 1244, but not simply to write it down and send it to the addresses of the most responsible for its implementation, but to elaborate on all levels of influence detailed action plans, starting with selected federal and republican functions, through all relevant factors of this society and diaspora in general. The issue of Kosovo and Metohija, the fellow MPs, the Serbian-Yugoslavia governments, must decide on a long path and in stages, as the problem itself did not arise over a short period of time, but has a decades-old origin. All factors must be included in this solution, starting with safety, through educational and educational, to scientific and political. At this time, it is necessary to build a common policy on resolving problems in Kosovo and Metohija, both Serbs and Albanians and other non-Albanian nations and groups, as well as international factors in symbiosis, and starting with Resolution 1244, whose opportunities have not been used as closely as necessary. In this option, the government and the entire community to solve the accumulated problems, all must make concessions and compromises, but not to question the national and human rights of any entity. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the struggle of Serbs, isolated only in Kosovo, without participation and contribution of social factors, the state union of the Serb people, cannot give a proper result, as it is obvious that there is an extremely unfavourable relationship of strength. It is also striking that even after 5 October, international factors primarily supported the Albanian side. International factors have not implemented, and today they do not, the most important decisions and provisions of United Nations Resolution 1244. The inclusion of Yugoslavia in international organisations and institutions is a favourable circumstance for acquiring international factors to reach consensus in resolving Kosovo and Metohija's problems. Neither does it, nor will it go by itself. Therefore, it is necessary for the government to ensure more intensive engagement of both our statesmen through visits, talks and all kinds of international communications, as well as that of foreign statesmen who at this time show a significant understanding of the major problems of Serbs in Kosovo. All of this, respected colleagues and fellow Members, should be jointly achieved within the framework of diplomatic and other services in the world, including NGOs and cultural institutions in the world. Of course, the SMIP has to get rid of the sense of loss. It is certain that all forwards can be unbiased, with full objectivity, taken down an anatema thrown at Serbs, and thanks to such organisation, co-ordinated actions, and more realistic situations would be seen and it would be shown that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija suffer great terror, when there are great victims. This would remove the wrongly formed public picture of Serbs in a world that has been forged for years with a certain purpose, that Serbs are committing crimes. In the Balkans, respected colleagues, there is growing awareness of the dangers of Albanian terrorism, at what events occur at international level, and at the same time growing in awareness that the Balkan peoples themselves should take their own fate into their own hands and ensure that the Balkans belong to the Balkan peoples. This government must take advantage of it in the best way and always by calling for Resolution 1244. Chapter four of the constitutional framework regulates the rights that come down to the free use of their own language, letters, and education in their own language. However, at a formal session about 25 years of the Kragujeva University, a short time ago, Mr. Gašo Knezevic informed the rectors of other universities and the dean that a larger inflow of students from Pristina University to other universities should be expected, and that restrictions on transition from one university to another should be lifted and that this should be made possible. He stressed that around the University of Pristina it must be cut once already, as Resolution 1244 does not say anything about school and university either. This means that we translate into the language of truth, if it has to be cut, that a decision has already been taken somewhere to abolish the University of Pristina, and the university is the last defence of Serbia, the acquisition of youth gatherings that can fatally help resuscitate Serbian spaces in Kosovo and Metohija. Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I do not think that this should be allowed at this time, especially if it is due to any costs. The university's survival is an important support for the queen's gathering of Serbia and other non-Albanian peoples. It is an environment where scientific, theoretical and moral training of the Serb people is conducted in the fight for survival. The university cultivates and creates a new national tradition and preserves national identity. In this way, the most vital parts of Serbia and people in general are tied and engaged through the University of Kosovo. It is the only place within the university that is unable to achieve Albanian supremation and subordinates our nation. The university has established links with other universities in Serbia by its scientific and theoretical basis. Instead of considering the strategy of further working and developing and reviving the university, it is thought and prepared in these areas to abolish it, and this is also the greatest desire of both Shipara and America. However, the largest number of us here, dear fellow MPs, represent ordinary mortals, ordinary people who think of this very difficult topic with both heart and soul, without enough data and arguments, but pressed by reality. That we, who are in the border area with Kosovo, think, do not think and feel those in Kladov and Sremska Mitrovica, so it seems to me in the end appropriate. Dear fellow MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister, and once we adopt this conclusion, however, surely the best solution to this problem could offer us the most discreet part of this people to whom we belong, which is SANU. I would, and since there's plenty of time... (President: Mr. Cvetkovic, you've exceeded your time. )......................................................................................................... suggested that the National Assembly make a request to SANU to tell us what to do today when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, and taking into account all this and these constitutional frameworks of Hekerup. I don't doubt the ability of ministers in the Serbian government, but it is still a level of education, so it gives for the right and I think we should all trust more of the SANU's proposals and conclusions together. Of course, if she wants to get involved in this problem at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8234	The word has a folk MP Dragan Vuksic, and the next reported for the discussion is MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8235	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, is the policy of realising the objectively possible. Nothing more and nothing less, at least for those who understand something about politics. In politics, once missed is never fully returned, compensated hard and partially. Sometimes it's paid at a great price, and in blood. Once offered in politics is never offered again, because tomorrow follows a proposal that is worse by the rule. These are some rules that should be taken into account, when it comes to Kosovo, in the past, in the present and in the future. I will not say a single word about the value of the conclusions proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I agree with everything the Serbian Prime Minister said yesterday in his presentation, afternoon. He called for realism and sobriety, and in that respect I agree with what was said. But at this point, I think a key sentence from the material that we have received is contained in the information contained in the situation in Kosovo by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, at point 3, where it is said, "The constitutional framework is certainly not satisfactory, but the reality and any serious opposition would go to harm both the SRJ and the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. "You may not all agree with that, but after some time to those who have a conscience, if they have it at all, they will have to agree with this. I will refer to the first part of that assessment - why this constitutional framework is not satisfactory. There's a thousand reasons. I'll list some. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, because NATO's aggression and this development of events that is worst possible shouldn't have happened. If we had called on the black devil and told him to make up the worst possible scenario - the devil, because the devil can only be a friend, whether he is a leftist or a right-wing man - he would not have been able to make something like this, and what happened to Kosovo and Metohija directed by Slobodan Milosevic and the trabants around him. Why is that the worst possible solution? Because, gentlemen, going backwards from the closer we could and had to accept an agreement from Rambouje, which was bad, but much better than anything that came next. Why is it bad? I'll explain later. But why is it better than anything that comes next, I'll also explain. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the sooner we could and the sooner we had to accept the mission of an extended OSCE stay, and headed by Felipe Gonzales. And because before that, we have put all the warnings and suggestions that the problem in Kosovo and Metohija must be resolved, which is a condition for us to raise the external wall of sanctions even in Dayton. So, since Dayton, in December 1995, not to go further backwards, Milosevic and society around him have wasted every opportunity to solve Kosovo and Metohija's problem in co-operation with international factors, and in the end, both the country and the people exposed the blade to NATO's sword. Due to such a policy, ladies and gentlemen, our delegation left the Contact Group meeting in December 1997 at Petersberg near Bonn when Kosovo and Metohija were raised. The delegation was headed by then by Foreign Minister Dragomir Vukevic and later by the ambassador to Greece. The then foreign minister of Germany, Klaus Kinkel, said... (President: Mr. Vuksic, stick to the topic. ) "They're leaving the meeting, but they'll return to much more difficult conditions. "Because of such a policy, Milosevic led the people to a referendum in April 1998, to get cover to refuse co-operation with the international community, at a time when the problem was already fully internationalised, when everyone and everyone, Kurt and Murta, were engaged in Kosovo and Metohija, but not us, at least not in the right way. Secondly, aggression and this kind of development didn't have to happen, but when it did, why did the aggression last 78 days? Why have we been so helplessly, helplessly destroyed for 78 days? It will remain a secret forever. Only Milosevic and those who encouraged him to come into conflict with NATO could explain it. Their explanations are familiar. Some of them will not speak until they are brought to justice. Until then, it should be borne in mind that there are basically only five conditions that NATO has set for us. These terms form the basis of an agreement from Rambuje, for those who have never read the agreement, which we have not accepted, and these conditions have been repeated by the so-called Jubilee NATO session on the 50th anniversary of the establishment of the organisation, on 23 and 24 April 1999, during the bombing, from Washington. In that statement, gentlemen, it says - I am not telling you, I am talking about history - so it is said - our military actions are not directed against the Serb people, but against the regime in Belgrade, which has repeatedly rejected all efforts to resolve the crisis peacefully. President Milosevic must...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8236	Mr. Vuksic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8237	First, to ensure that all military actions are suspended in a verifiable manner and immediately end violence and presses in Kosovo. To ensure the withdrawal from Kosovo of his military, police and paramilitary forces. To agree to the unconditional and secure return of all refugees and expelled persons, and so on. To ensure secure guarantees that they will work towards a framework political agreement based on an agreement from Rambuje. Point 6 of the statement says NATO is ready to suspend air strikes in that case, and the Security Council is ready to approach to draw up appropriate resolutions. So if we had accepted these five conditions then, the bombing would have been suspended and there would have been a resolution that we had received later anyway. Whether it should have waited 78 days, as long as those conditions were contained in Annex I and II Resolution 1244, so much praised Resolution 1244, with now Annex I having seven conditions, not more than five, and Annex II ten conditions, therefore strengthened and extended. Will we accept these conditions to stop the bombing of this country, the NATO Force Commander for Europe, General Clark, also asked the next day after the bombing began. He has asked several times during the bombing, and discussed it with the then Chief of General Staff, General Ojdanic. It's all denied. Why did everything have to last 78 days? Therefore, it is likely that Milosevic, along with him, enjoyed the war with NATO, which was his main dream to "command troops in the war," which he and Mira enjoyed, and some along with them, to take care of the new world order, the future of the United Nations, of the future of the Security Council, which they dreamed of creating a so-called strategic front between Russia, China and India, which will, behold, stop America, and then come a improvement for this country and the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8238	Mr. Vuksic, based on article 101. Rules of Procedure, I give you a warning because you don't stick to the subject, and I've already warned you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8239	I'm sticking to the subject. Third, which is the difference between Rambuje, Resolution 1244 and the Military Technical Agreement, because these documents are not yet known to the public. Milosevic's regime claimed that the Rambuje deal is unacceptable, but things stand quite differently. Resolution 1244 and the Military Technical Agreement, ladies and gentlemen, contain directly or indirectly all the key provisions of the Rambuje Agreement, by fully taking them over or calling for them, particularly regarding the political solution for Cosmet, point 1. Annex I and point 8. Annex II. That is why the constitutional framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo now discusses the assembly, the president of Kosovo, the government and other bodies. So it was contained in the Rambuje agreement, because they were foreseen by this agreement. Furthermore, under an agreement from Rambuje, NATO forces would come to Cosmet in agreement, not as enemies. The Yugoslav Army and police would step down gradually for up to 180 days, not 11 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8240	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8241	Allow me, please, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8242	Please, you've gone far from the subject, Mr. Vuksic, we have a lot of applications for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8243	There would be 2,500 soldiers on Cosmet to protect the border, 2,500 police officers who would also conduct order in Kosovo, and 75 of our customs officers and 50 officers would be on the border. So the situation would be where and where different. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, the key issue is that the Rambuje deal was allegedly rejected because of NATO's right to move across the entire territory of the SRJ. I'd like someone to show me that provision in the Rambuje Agreement, and in return I quote point 8 of Appendix A of the Kumanov Military Technical Agreement, which reads, listen to this...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8244	Mr. Vuksic, I'm giving you a second warning for time's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8245	NATO forces will enjoy, along with their vehicles, planes and equipment, free and unlimited access through the SRJ territory, including airspace and territorial waters. It will include, but it won't be limited just to bibes, maneuvers, accommodations and use of any territory or... necessary for support, training and operations. The Honorable Presidency, I haven't finished my presentation, I apologize for time overruns, but I think these are facts that should be written in the stenographic notes of the Assembly, and in that sense I've spoken, which and to all those who understood this. Those who are not are not worth speaking to. Thank you. (The attached part of Dragan Vuksic's discussion: Let me remind this occasion that NATO's right to move on SRJ territory is not new. Under the agreement on transit arrangements between NATO and the SRJ, which is an integral part of the Dayton Agreement, international forces stationed in BiH (first IFOR, then SFOR) have the right to go there and return across the SRJ territory. This right was used by the Americans once in 1996. They tested us, and they were very pleased that everything was organized and carried out. The Belgrade team was also the NATO Force Commander in Europe, General George Julian. He wanted to see him and received him personally by Slobodan Milosevic. Also today, members of the OSCE of Romania, for example, are crossing our territory on their way out and back from BiH. A few more words about Resolution 1244. The 3rd operational act reads: "a special requirement (thinks of the UN SB) that the SRJ immediately halts violence and repression in Kosovo... ". The provision was also agreed by Russia and China, as permanent members of the UN SB and our friends and protectors. This was agreed by Slobodan Milosevic and based on that, he celebrated the victory. Is it now appropriate to discuss whether violence and repression were in Kosovo and Metohija. Resolution 1244 obliges us to co-operate with The Hague tribunal in the fourth paragraph of the preamble and at the 14th point of the operation. And with regard to The Hague tribunal and this assembly, one should tell and record the truth. And she says so. The Hague tribunal was founded by resolution SB 808 since 22 February 1993. He began his work in November 1993. All UN SB resolutions and other significant documents, relating to the area of the previous Yugoslavia, with countless, including the Dayton Agreement, are committed to co-operation with The Hague tribunal. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8246	Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8247	I report, Madam Chairman, on the occasion of a recent violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 28 was injured because your predecessor was to intervene at that time, given that on May 24th, Vladan Batic said in the Assembly: "When you find a coolant in the Danube near Tekia, when another coolant was found in the lake near Kokino Brod - he says, at least that's what the newspaper says - then we have to go through that moral catharsis and we have to take that anthema and that mortgage off of ourselves." This is proof that Vladan Batic also called for a freezer near Koka's boat. Since the President of the Assembly hurt the Rules of Procedure, because it was supposed to intervene immediately, this is not an objection to you personally, but since there is no president here, you are his second...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8248	Okay, I'll give you an answer. You've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure and now I'm asking you to return to your seat. First, and if the president of the assembly is here, he doesn't have to give you an answer for something that was yesterday. Why didn't you call yesterday for a word about Article 28's injury? Rules of Procedure? I give the word to MP Boris Stanimirovic, and the next is MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8249	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, I'm sorry that today is not the whole government. Surely the issue of Kosovo is not only a matter of the Prime Minister, but it is a good thing the president is there. I would agree with yesterday's discussion by the Prime Minister when he spoke of the choice of words, that he should be careful when it comes to these conclusions, that is, a document adopted today in the Serbian Parliament. However, I must note that this conclusion on such an important issue, such as not only the future of Kosovo, but also Serbia, in the light of the conclusion, is very mild. It would be easier than that if we could make a warm recommendation to the international community to adopt something, so in this case we would vote on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia - a warm recommendation, etc. And then we would normally make these conclusions. So we should still go, this is a historic moment, the adoption of a document that, after a hundred and many years, is likely to be studied from generations to come, at least in the light of resolution. Secondly, I would like to insist on amending the fourth conclusion, which requires full protection of the Serb people. No more protecting, no more defending. I would suggest -- it's a demand for human rights, what Americans usually like to say, and what they insist on all over the world. If so, then we too have the full right to ask for it to be achieved in Serbia, that is, Kosovo. In that case, I would vote -- human rights of the Serbian people and other non-Albanian ethnic communities in Kosovo and Metohija are required. It insists on ensuring security, etc., so I don't read, that's the change that would happen in this case. This constitutional framework for temporary self-government is neither the constitutional framework, but it is a constitution, nor is it temporary, but it is not permanent, nor is it self-government, but it is a matter, you know how and who decides in Republika Srpska on the election of the Prime Minister, etc. Whether it's Hans Hackerup or someone else, anyway, but it's about one more octrocated constitution that's just talking about what's next. If we look at this constitutional framework, I will not comment on those members that have already been discussed, but I would just take this 9126, which speaks of the assembly, given that we are the People's MPs of the Serbian Parliament and you see the difference now between the future assembly of Kosovo and Metohija and our Assembly. Where under a) adopts laws and resolution in the areas of jurisdiction of temporary self-government institutions, as provided for in Chapter 5. What I would not repeat for the sake of time, but it is said - the election of the president of Kosovo and, therefore, you see that they have even more ingenuity than our Parliament. We do not elect the President of the Republic, and in Kosovo the Assembly decides on the President. It considers and accepts international agreements under its jurisdiction and already says it is a state or it will be a state in the country. I haven't advocated that autonomy since 1974, because yesterday there was a lot of talk about it, when they practically had more rights than the peoples of Serbia, but in the 9th floor of 1-27 it's nice to say that it's not a temporary constitution, because it says -- the laws once declared become binding legislative acts of general character. The resolution is temporary. And therefore, this will be not a framework, but a practical constitution that will regulate all issues in Kosovo and Metohija. I followed closely yesterday, and today I'm having all the discussions. We are criticised that we are virtually restricted by that resolution 1244, that we are restricted by the Kumanov Agreement, etc. It is true, but I would ask that when we adopt these conclusions or resolutions, what will happen, we do not go below that minimum guaranteed by Resolution 1244, and if we are carefully read there are many positions that stand down. That's the first one. Secondly, we must stress that the international climate is now more favourable, it must be acknowledged, and we heard that from the prime minister yesterday, and that can be seen already. If so, then let us make it more favourable, i.e. to choose a more favourable status and past that resolution and beyond this agreement in Kumanovo, because we know how it is and when it is concluded and in what conditions. I wouldn't discuss what my predecessor used to say, about these relationships, etc., who's to blame. Look, if we look at it that way, we can look for the guilty a lot sooner. Our entire history is the history of various battles and wars, for many other reasons, not whether the Socialists were in power or not. Perhaps it would be fortunate that our ancestors, instead of coming to the Balkan Peninsula, went to the Pyrenees Peninsula, so we would now be calm, not on this wind, would not be at this international crossroads where everyone passes, not now, but from the Middle Ages until today. So I don't think we can justify it that way. But we can't just justify what it was. You know when Karadjordje left after 500 years of slavery, he did not ask why Lazar handed over Kosovo, or why Lazar lost the Kosovo battle. When it comes to ethnic cleansing, it began long before 1945 or 1946, and we know well that when they banned the return of Serbs, about 300,000 Serbs could not return to Kosovo, that it was then that the ethnic cleansing began. The issue of cantonisation, not specifically, or entities, but I think the most people living in Kosovo could say about Kosovo's status, and today they are Serbs, and even more so those who remain in Kosovo today, so it will be a question of their proposals and their views that can be accepted, depending on the interests of Serbia, or the state. As far as southern Serbia is concerned, there was a discussion yesterday. I agree that the government had good intentions to resolve this issue and I think it was temporarily resolved. Whether it will be permanent or not, but it cannot be taken away from the impression that it was yet an attempt to remove our attention as far as Kosovo is concerned and to make it easier to bring this constitutional framework, or resolve the Kosovo issue as they are proposing today. The weather will, after all, show whether we are right, regardless of all the good intentions that the government had, and which it has just (since I come from southern Serbia, from the Pcinj County), the entire Pcinj County will welcome, surely, if there is no more fighting, if there is no more cannon fire, which has been present in recent months, but we have to admit one fact - events in southern Serbia began after 5 October, not two years ago. Until then, they had no such aspirations and there were no pressures, which were later on. As for the University of Pristina, as my predecessor spoke earlier, I will not talk about it, but I will say a few sentences, given that it is of interest to Serbia and crucial to Kosovo. You see, it's that we can't even end a university like this, or stay the way it is. So, there must be some mini-universities, rationalisation must be done, students must be reduced, colleges towards Mitrovica must also be directed towards Kosovo, but they must not be abolished now, at this point, because it is neither politically correct, but we will not meet the needs of students and others. And in the end, when it comes to reciprocity -- a colleague yesterday talked about how we have to make reciprocity when we return, i.e. when it comes to liberating Albanians from our prisons, but I think it's already late, that "the Janko has arrived in Kosovo", and I would say Stanko, since Stanko spoke yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8250	Thank you very much. The task force will consider your suggestion to move to the Apenina Peninsula. We now have one objection to the Rules of Procedure - he has the word Mr Vuksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8251	Mr. President, point 98. The Rules of Procedure say the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. My whole presentation was about the Constitutional Framework and why this constitutional framework, which Hans Hekerup brought, was not satisfactory, or bad, which I agree with. So, not that it's not satisfactory, it's very bad. I've offered reasons for that, without which we won't get to the truth, and without the truth we'll never take a constructive step in the situation we're in. Madam Chairman, in that regard, gave me a warning, one or two. As far as I could see and understand, and I followed the presentation of that MP who spoke after me. He spoke about the southern Serbia, the university and other topics, which have no direct link to the constitutional framework, or the conclusions of the Serbian government, which she offered us on this. I don't feel hurt, but in the interest of equating practice, in the interest of the constructive and successful work of this assembly, I ask that this no longer happens and that I warn myself that I have an impression (I don't know if most of them will agree, it doesn't have to be), when you leave this room and leave the presidency to other members of the presidency, then the criterion changes significantly, and some of the things that we agree on are no longer valid.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8252	It is very difficult for me to comment, and I am obliged, though, to comment on this procedure by Mrs. Micic, who led the session while I was away, but with full confidence, although I have not heard it, I suppose she has properly assessed it, and I cannot change the decision. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am obliged to make one correction -- here a speaker before me said that the salary of the Members of Parliament was 20,000, that in the last session was 5,000. It is true that in the last term it was about 5,300, but it is also true that in this term it is 10,500 and that MPs receive the difference by 10,500, except for those who are in constant work, they have 10,500. How much is my predecessor's salary -- he may be getting some extra for a successful defence of Kosovo, perhaps something on the duke's rank, etc. I can't know that. I can also agree here with the opposition that Kosovo's problem has been inherited. This problem lasts long, and someone here set an example that in 1921, it seems to me, the Shipara was 150,000. So, the problem dates before this power, and before the government of the red and black coalition. The basic two reasons why the situation in Kosovo is so is that Albanians did not like this (shows a condom), and they had this (shows money), and we Serbs loved both. Whether we want to admit it or not, we have to run a public policy -- part of Kosovo we sold. The main consequences are those who live in Kosovo today and who believed in the red-and-black coalition policy. It is not moral for them to talk about Kosovo today. They are the third reason why the situation in Kosovo is like this and why it has led to the constitutional framework as it is. They sowed these bitter seeds, and now we share fruit together, and we share bitter fruits together, and they are most bitter to those who live in Kosovo. What kind of politics they ran -- they ran a policy that wasn't led for the benefit of the nation. The nation was used for the purpose of their policy, not vice versa. Instead of running a policy for the good of the nation, they led such a policy to score inside points and regain power, two or three times in a row. Kosovo's population, especially Serbs from Kosovo, only served to draw those votes to win another election. The government has made several mistakes -- the first mistake is to eliminate autonomy. They've cut off their autonomy, now they've almost got a state. Their second big mistake is the rejection of the Rambuje Agreement. Mrs. Andric is here, we were here in the Assembly on March 23rd, we got an agreement from Rambuje, and to be clear, that agreement was not good. But then he came even worse. I would now insist that one position enter into the conclusions of this assembly, which reads: "The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has powers in Kosovo in the following areas: territorial integrity, the maintenance of the common market, customs policy, defence, foreign policy, customs services, federal regulations". I insist that this attitude be entered into the conclusions of the Assembly. Furthermore, what would we give if we could in this constitutional framework if we had it to say that the borders were exclusively controlled by the Yugoslav Army, within a five-mile belt? What would we give if we had the right to have our own police down there, what would they have allowed a citizen of Kosovo to choose the court that judges him, whether Kosovo, whether republican, whether federal? What would they give me if Kosovo were related to the Republic of Serbia and that the constitutional framework states that they give 20 MPs here in the Serbian Parliament and give one of the republican ministers? What would we give if our police had the authority and had the right to have 24 hours in Kosovo? What would they give me for it? We had that agreement on March 23rd, right here on the table. The deal was rejected by the red-and-black coalition. We said you don't trust the Russians (Mrs. Andric is here) that Chinese guns are shooting at our army and police. We also told you not to appeal to the words of Emperor Lazarus, "I am not treating the force that is before me, but to the sanctuary that I defend." Emperor Lazar Kosovo did not defend, he lost his head. And then Emperor Lazar will not come to Kosovo, and Marko, Marko will surely be late. That's what we told you. We also told you that after this agreement, which we rated as bad, you would get even worse. We told you not to fight, to pour diesel into tractors, not tanks, to go to the set, not to the war. After the war, we got an ultimatum. We had an agreement where it literally wrote everything, their powers, ours. Then we got this (shows document) - ultimatum. The truth is, one parliamentary group from the red and black coalition has rejected this ultimatum. We turned him down, too. We've been held back. We thought we had an agreement, and this wasn't an agreement, but an ultimatum, a capitulation, and we don't want to sign it. True, she refused one parliamentary group, but here they said at that famous war session on June 3rd -- never mind, we'll lose, let's lose, and Nis, we'll consider it a temporary occupation, like Krajina. That's why they don't need to defend anything. Their policy of cheap bar patriotism has led us here. Someone said that such patriotism is a refuge for political thugs, and it wasn't wrong. That policy has led us to where it has led us. We lost Krajina, almost lost Kosovo. They have no moral right to talk today about how we will regain integrity in Kosovo. Please, Mr. President, calm these here. We are today discussing what constitutional framework should be. Then we had it, we dropped it. Why did we drop it? Because you didn't listen to the voice of reason. You gambled and lost. You should be tried for high treason. Our opponents got everything. We lost everything. What kind of patriots are you? You mentioned the Duke. Don't defend Vojvodina. Everything you've defended, you've buried. You, the Duke and the Harrakes. You have no right to defend anyone anymore. You said at that session on March 23rd "Let the NATO forces come. We'll wait for them downstairs, we Duke. We'll send visas through the pipe. Let them come without a visa, we'll send visas through the pipe. Once we send them, it will be valid indefinitely." Who's defending you? Go, go, go. What do you want? To mobilize others? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8254	Did you bring your tools that you used here? (In the meantime, MP Seselj is asking for a word. No name, no function, no party, I didn't know it was your speech. No one knows it's your speech. ). Don't. We had this-- you mercenaries, you what... He's got a word... Don't. We're going with a serious session. (Employer Seselj continues to insist. Mr. Seselj, we're going with a serious session. Here's to the Rules of Procedure, but misusing the Rules of Procedure means taking away words, you already have two warnings. I give you my word on the Rules of Procedure, but I remind you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8255	First, when it was a second warning. I heard you warned me once, but I didn't hear it right the other time. Secondly, Mr. President, you are required by the Rules of Procedure to give me your word. Twice here, Marian Risticevic interpreted my words wrongly. For the first time in Parliament's pay, he has brought the truth here, calling for my previous exposure. Here he has deceived the entire public that the parliamentary salary is only 10,000.00 and some dinars, which is not true. Djindjic has now introduced gross salaries, and on these gross salaries the parliamentary salary is more than 20.000,00 dinars. That's where you were supposed to intervene. Laugh, 10.700,00 is a basic salary, 4,400,00 is a flat break that receives each MP, for every day of the meeting another 300,00 dinars. [[Laughter]] The assembly is 20 days in session, which means 6.000,00 dinars, and those travelling, such as Marijan Risticevic, every day, although they have free transport in all means of transport, receive 1.500,00 dinars per day of travel, it is almost 30.000,00 dinars. Pick it up. Secondly, Mr. President, I was entitled to a replica when he mentioned my speech at the Assembly meeting, when it was debated the acceptance of the Chernomidin-Ahtisari Plan. Of all the speakers, only the heads of the parliamentary groups spoke, and only my speech was made public because the session was a secret. No one can make my speech a secret. My speech was published in "Great Serbia" and anyone who wishes can see that Marijan Risticevic lied here. I think I had a legitimate reason to report and advertise the replica, and since you wouldn't let me do that, I'm advertising your violation of the Rules of Procedure and I think my argument is pretty strong. I hope you'll agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8256	She is strong. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. No, Ljubomir Kragovic... Don't be human. Don't, I didn't warn you, you talked for 10 minutes about what you wanted, don't make... [[Employer Risticevic reporting for replica.]] Well, of course he's not right because seven minutes without my warning he talked about what's not really on the agenda and now we're opening circles like this. Here you go. You have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8257	I have here a transcript of a stenogram, so to strengthen my words, it's literally said here -- Milutinovic, president, (a pity he's not here) said this way: "We were offered to write the agreement ourselves, as we will, but -- troops". Now we've got troops without an agreement. So they said - your agreement is very good, write an agreement whatever you want, but - troops. Now we have troops and we have no agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8258	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8259	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use my right as president of the parliamentary group to speak for the second time during this session, but I will not speak directly about the subject, but I will try to point out everything that is the cartoonisation of the parliamentary role in our society and, among other things, the demeaning of us as a representative of citizens. The most difficult session of Parliament was the session at which we discussed the final budget bill for 2000. The only government proposal that did not receive the support of the majority in Parliament was the draft budget bill for 2000 because, as MPs of the majority, we felt that the time had come for citizens to account for everything that is irresponsible to state resources. By entering Parliament, we have changed, among other things, some of the rights of MPs. We have defined the right of each parliamentary group to be able to oblige the Assembly to receive up to 1/3 of the parliamentary club in a permanent working relationship. When we talk about our salaries, we talk about spending people's money because we're paid from the budget. It's not true what was said about us. It is true that this parliament has held more working sessions in three months, more working days, a hundred times more working hours than Parliament in the previous meeting, which met in three and a half years 28 times. Let's say, in 2000, eight times, and the MPs each month received a salary that, if you compare it to our salary today, with all the benefits they have today, as before, is incomparably lower.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8260	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8261	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian government's proposal for information on some constitutional framework announcement has been given more characteristics, from mild, soft to condescending. I think that such a proposal is shameful and that this conclusion of the National Assembly should have only one member standing in it - the document "The Constitutional Framework for the Application of Self-Government in Kosovo and Metohija" is unacceptable by the National Assembly, explaining that such a member describes and adds everything the alleged peace mission has done for almost two years of fact in Kosovo and Metohija. It is, above all, to finally implement this disarmament of terrorist gangs, to conquer peace and security in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija; to ensure the conditions for the return of Serbs to the areas of Kosovo and Metohija; to make a decision to banish all foreign citizens from Kosovo and Metohija, here I think of the Cypriots who have moved to Kosovo and Metohija; to resolve the fate of 1,300 missing and kidnapped Serbs, to discover the murderers of 1,300 Serbs and to make a decision to return to the work of police forces and the Yugoslav Army, in order to finally conquer order and peace in Kosovo and Metohija. This constitutional framework has its own causes. Let us remember the time when the capitulation of Kosovo and Metohija occurred. We had a referendum in which Serbian citizens declared that Serbia was self-organising its country. On the basis of this referendum, there was a rejection of the plan from Rambuje and the interference of foreign forces in our territory at all. Then, normally, there was the bombing, the aggression, and the Chernomidin - Ahtisaari Agreement, which this assembly adopted. I must remind again, all representatives of the political parties, either in position or in opposition, were in favour, except for the SRS, which rejected the Chernomidin - Ahtisaari Agreement, on the basis of which Security Council Resolution 1244 was adopted. Something similar is being repeated in this assembly of parliament. We had a session a month ago. We have reached some resolution and this resolution has been unanimously voted in this assembly, which refuses to accept any constitutional framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. I think that and that resolution obliges us that the conclusion should be as I suggested, i.e. that there is only one member in whom it is clearly and decadently said that the document is not accepted and that it is unacceptable for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The question has been raised here several times, how then to affect making life easier for Serbs, who remained in Kosovo and Metohija. There are several ways that the Serbian government must take to make life easier for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and it also has an impact on the return of a number of Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija. However, what is indicative is that the Serbian government has no clear position and that it has conflicting opinions. If we remember an announcement of customs introduction, then the occupier suggested and claimed that he was in co-operation with the federal and republican government, he had permission to introduce customs duties. One of the members of the federal government said consent was given, the other said no consent was given. Then we finally received a notice that some fees would be introduced that Serbs should pay to fund the occupation. However, such a reaction by the government does not satisfy Serbs, as Serbs want to pay taxes, taxes and excise duties to the Serbian government, not to the occupation government in Kosovo and Metohija. Then, one dilemma about the election. While one member advocates some kind of election, others do not advocate the election. The assembly must also determine that elections must be boycotted in Kosovo and Metohija. They must boycott for the simple reason that conditions for any elections do not exist in Kosovo and Metohija. What is most important is that we should be strengthened by Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija. It must be done on the return of refugees and displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija. If the Serbian government cannot return anyone to Pec, Prizren, Urosevic, Pristina, it can return Serbs to Leposavic, Mitrovica, Zvecan, Zubin Potok and Serb enclaves. It can be done by providing large funds from this set of tax laws in a budget adopted in this assembly to separate certain funds. My proposal would be to make 100 apartments in these four northern Kosovo municipalities where Serbs will be taken care of, and also not to neglect those Serb enclaves that are in Kosovo and Metohija, where 100 apartments can also be made to stimulate Serbs to return. Normally, business buildings need to be built alongside these apartments so they can settle in -- such a administration that exists where Serbs are left to live. It is very important that the Serbian government has a clear view. The minister, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, cannot ask the question of abolishing the University of Pristina. Or, Mrs. Slobodanka Turajlic, who also announces it. Normally, it panics with Serbs. It should work to ensure that the University of Pristina, as it is -- is that, under new conditions, it has to work and operate, with the tendency for all colleges to return to the northern part of Kosovo and Metohija, so that the remaining Serbs at least take that care off their doors, that they do not have to be exposed to costs and send their children to Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, to university centres across Serbia. Then, it must not be allowed for the police minister to declare Serbs to be criminals and also to amnest Albanians. He cannot, through his television station, which is the only one operating down in Kosovo, invites Serbs into some kind of Kosovo Protection Corps, into some Kosovo police force, and the minister is the police of the Republic of Serbia. The minister of justice, we're all witnesses here, making up some coolers with some corpses, and all he did was defend himself from what's impossible to defend, which is that on the shift initiative, from the representatives of the SRS, he's starting to defend himself with some false arguments. What irritated Serbs the most, Mr. President, is the appointing of Kusner's proposals. After the occupation forces arrived, some Serbs accepted the occupiers as their liberators and came to some Kusner government. The same proposals, proposed by Kushner, was also nominated by Justice Minister Vladan Batic. He nominated because he is a minister and local self-government, so that the government's list in Kosovo is proposing and now it's a proposal from the Serbian government. It cannot be equated, despite the fact that there are similarities between Djindjic and Kushner. To my question, why do the Members of Kosovo, who are in the government, who represent power, for example, Jaksic or Antonijevic, allow such Serbs to be appointed by the government now, they say - ask Djindjic. That's why I'm asking you. Mr Djindjic, you said -- any text will not make it difficult for Serbs to live in Serbia. We are not conditioned by Kosovo, but by co-operation with The Hague. (President: Time. ) Please withdraw this conclusion and do not make it difficult for Serbs to live in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8262	Mr. Jaksic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8263	I don't think there's anything controversial about the President of the Municipality of Leposavic. It is about Mr. Nenad Radosavljevic, the owner of a television company whose UNMIK finance company, who advertises, above all, admission to the Kosovo police, whose guest, unfortunately, is the minister of our police, who is trying to apologize to Albanians for all the crimes reportedly committed by Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Because of these KPS officers, there was a huge protest of the people in Leposavic. Two young people lost their lives. It is primarily about the president of the municipality, who with UNMIK's officers broke the blockades and barricades organised by Serbs in northern Kosovo due to customs. I don't think that's a question. On our visit, we told Mr Djindjic and Mr Batic that it was a person who did not play for the Serbian team, who does not play the Serbian story, and we received a promise that this man would no longer be head of the Serb municipality. I'm saying, it's not a question of what he's doing, it's not a dispute that he owns television, it's not a dispute that he wants to apologize to Albanians, but what he's doing as an official of the Serbian government, i.e. The countries of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8264	The word has a National MP Slobodan Pavlovic, followed by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8265	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to the subject we're talking about, I would like a brief comment. Several times already, even at this session yesterday and today, a number of DOS MPs are asking us a question of moral rights for MPs from opposition parties to talk at a meeting and on this topic today on the agenda and on the topics we discussed at previous meetings. No matter how many times that question is asked, I reject such a request with indignity, and I claim that MPs are equal in parliament, that I am obliged and that I have a moral right and a moral obligation to speak, and as a MP, and as a representative of the people, and that I speak on behalf of those 500 and more thousands of citizens who voted for my parliamentary group and for me in this House. I don't think that's fair. Today, at the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are considering the proposal for a conclusion on the declaration of the Constitutional Framework for Temporary Self-Government in Kosovo and Metohija, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of Article 90. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of Article 128 Rules of Procedure on the work of our Parliament. That's all I'm gonna talk about. I purposely mention the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and deliberately mention the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because I believe that, given all the delicacy and complexity of the time we are discussing, and in particular regarding the topic and the problem on the agenda, I do not think the proposed conclusion is an adequate act of this state, and in particular its parts and points 1, 5, 6 and 7. Secondly, it is not suitable by its content and shape, because this session of the National Assembly and the act it will bring, at least I understand as a national MP, can also have historical significance, not only in defining and determining the status of Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia and the SRJ, and may also have a consensus on the overall state and fate of both the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ. In this context, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question is logically raised, and I am asking it, the question of fate, the question of the impact and the scope of the resolution adopted by this parliament on 4 May this year, which concerned exactly the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1244. In this context, it can be asked or the question of the act, which we will adopt today and will be recorded in the history of parliamentaryism, whether this session is historic or not, depends on how anyone interprets it. Why am I asking this, why am I setting this up like this? Because, just after the adoption and adoption of this Parliament's resolution, UN Secretary-General Hekerup's special envoy, Mr Hekerup, signed on 14 May, as he is known to have signed, and has declared the Constitutional Framework for Temporary Self-Government in Kosovo and Metohija, and has scheduled, at the same time or before, elections in this Serbian province for November 17th. I have to say with indignation that the Constitutional Framework has brought a man or maybe more, since I don't know who wrote them, I don't know if they're written in Washington, Brussels, or Copenhagen, where Mr. Hekerup came from, but in any case, he's from authors who don't recognise either the UN or Resolution 1244, who don't respect and acknowledge the historical rights we have in Kosovo and Metohija, and in good part both Serbia and the SRJ. In that part, he surpassed the famous French physician, and for whom it was difficult to assume. Generally, therefore, the constitutional framework that we have received and which is, in its form, in its essence, unacceptable document, because it is harmful to the state interests of the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia and is harmful to the national interests of Serbs and non-Albanian communities in Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, with the moral right of all to speak of this, regardless of all our possible party, political or other differences that we may have on other issues, and we should have them, I think we should not have them on this issue and it is absolutely certain that if we want to correctly interpret the document, that it is essentially the following: First, it does not respect UN Security Alliance Resolution 1244, and in some parts it is even contrary to it. What is special is that the Constitutional Framework does not respect the other documents that were discussed, which Prime Minister Djindjic was also talking about in the end. These are the documents on ending the war in the SRJ and not counting in line, due to time. In the preamble part, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the SRJ are denied in the most harsh way, as there is no explicit, but does not mention that Kosovo is part of the Republic of Serbia in the SRJ and that in Resolution 1244 it stands in a certain way. In the preamble part of this document, in an unacceptable and contradictory way, conditions are created for organising a referendum on Kosovo's status and enables Kosovo's secession from Serbia and the SRJ. In Chapter one, that was the case, the attributes of state and state are stressed. So, the population, territory and state authority, which ensure that Kosovo has both legislative power and judicial authority, therefore, and the assembly, and the government, and the president, and the army, and the flag, and the coin, which should not prove that the attributes of the state are not local self-government or autonomy. Chapter two defines the principles that temporary authorities and self-government institutions should adhere to, but there is no possibility of any influence from the authorities of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ. Chapter three defines human rights and lists important international human rights documents. However, as defined, it is only in principle, indicative and thus does not provide any firm mechanisms that would allow Serbs to return to Kosovo. So nothing to do with Article 9. The UN Resolution, which is what we were talking about. Chapter four contains guarantees, rights of communities and their members for the protection of ethnic, cultural, religious and linguistic identity. The amendments of Serbian representatives were not accepted in this part, although I agree, I did not see those amendments, and I do not know who was making them, although I do know a part of it. They were not accepted and no guarantee was given, one that could be secured. A very important chapter five, which determines the responsibilities of all temporary institutions of self-government based on this constitutional framework in the field and economy, and finance, and fiscal policy, and customs, and trade, and education, science, youth and sports, culture, health, agriculture, spatial planning even, which is very important, in such a way that this represents a complete negation of the constitutional order and the legal system of Serbia and the SRJ in Kosovo and Metohija. In all other parts, not to mention them all, the right of the High Representative or Special Representative to implement the Constitutional Framework under the Resolution and the Military Technical Agreement is maintained, but without Serbia and without the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The 10th, an assessment by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where it is said that the Constitutional Framework enjoys broad support, now the European Union, the NATO Pact, though without Russia and China, that there is no willingness in the international community to change it and that any serious opposition would go to the harm of the Serbian people and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, I consider it a kind of obstruction. Why? Mr Djindjic, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, spoke to Parliament twice yesterday, and in another address, and I am particularly apostrophysing, he said, I can't literally help it, but he said that not accepting such constitutional frameworks -- let's just say that it is, and Mr Djindjic is there... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Give me a minute please... that it will not worsen the position of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbs in Kosovo, but whether it will bear fruit, in terms of improvement, that is another issue. So it's obviously not in agreement. So, I want to accept the interpretation of Prime Minister Djindjic, because it creates conditions that pressure can be put on and done something more than was assessed by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. that our diplomacy had to do much more than put us before the final act. That is why, as an SPS MP, I advocate quite certainly for a peaceful, political and diplomatic solution, so, without new conflicts, without war, without self-insulating, but I insist on what the head of our parliamentary group has been talking about, and that is what many MPs have said, that the working group, in which Prime Minister Djindjic, the president of the assembly and the heads of parliament groups, must reshape the full conclusions, to respect all that has been said today, so that we can make a special statement about it. I especially suggest that the working group define this kind of thing, not that the Assembly adopts the conclusion as the lowest act it adopts, but I suggest that it be the least of the resolutions, so at least at what we have already said on May 4th. Second, to insist...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8266	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8267	Here, I'm ending it, not to be a constitutional framework, but to be the legal basis it was in the draft of this act. Third, that without fulfilling the requirements of Article 9. Resolution, there is no choice in Kosovo and cannot be recognised by any election and election results by any of our relevant factors. And that, from the Security Council, since I don't believe Mr. Hackerup will do anything, he's going to ask that the constitutional framework in this sense be changed, to be likened to Resolution 1244 and then realized correctly. I'm sorry for over time, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8268	The word has a folk MP Dragan Tomic, followed by MP Milos Nesovic. I would ask the MPs, if there were anyone else who hadn't filed a complaint, or if he wanted to speak and didn't file a complaint, that we might have a picture and possibly that we could reach an agreement on this, that they would file applications, and for now there are about 20 other registered MPs. 43 MPs spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8269	Before I move on to this part that talks about the constitutional frameworks for Kosovo and Metohija, there was one part of the discussion that was trying to create the context of the story that someone was responsible and guilty from the previous government of what is happening now and at this point, and it is pointed to a narrowed space. I admit, indeed, that space is very narrow, that it is imposed on us as such, and the question is where is the limit of this narrowing, as well as the rights of Serbs, not only in Kosovo and Metohija, but also in many other issues. But for the sake of the public and for the sake of knowledge for all Serbian MPs and citizens, I have in front of me the text of a temporary agreement on peace and self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, proposed in Rambuje. The agreement was not signed by all international promoters, but immediately signed by the Cypriots. What's the problem with this deal? The problem is military annexes. So this is about the next one, and I'm just going to say a few points, I won't be long, but they're very important and important. So the status of multinational forces to implement this agreement. He meant the following, that NATO troops would enter the territory of the entire Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, so at point 6, it is said this - NATO will not succumb to any legal procedure, civil, administrative or criminal. That's under a). Under b) NATO personnel will enjoy the immunity of the jurisdiction of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia under these circumstances. Further - NATO personnel will enjoy immunity in respect of any arrest, investigation, detention by the authorities of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. That's at point 7. Point 8 says -- NATO personnel will enjoy, along with their vehicles, aircraft, aircraft and equipment, free and smooth passage, and smooth access across the SRJ, including appropriate airspace and territorial waters. That means that occupation. Furthermore, point 11 says - NATO will be given the right to use airports, roads, railways and ports without charge of costs, taxes, taxes and other charges for use. And finally, cynicism in all of this, when someone is rich, he wants to take from the poor and what little he has, so he says -- the sides will help NATO obtain, at the lowest price, the necessary utility services, such as electricity, water, gas and other resources. And there are a number of other things here that were essentially reasons to reject this document. I'm asking you, is there anyone here who's ready to raise a hand for it now? Is it possible? If you were in power at the time, would you accept something like this? Of course you wouldn't, and then you were in this assembly and you said no. So let's not talk about who's guilty, there's a good part of the truth in what Prime Minister Djindjic said -- today this is how it is. And we were all accomplices to that time, so let's just not be here with some cheap political messages looking for someone to blame. We, here in Serbia, in the last hundred years, with various kinds of government and various forms of government, have had the same pain and are again on the same subject today. Let's try to get the maximum out of what's right in front of us as a problem. The problem is next - we can say that Kosovo is not occupied, if we want to say so, and whether or not it is, it is now the border and the line around which we can dispute. The fact is that the Serbian people live only in one enclave, in the north, that our people live in a part of the territory where they continue to be exposed to various torments, live as in the ghetto, no human rights, no economy works. And that part of the Serbian economy that was on Cosmeta territory, you remember well that that's where KFOR and everyone else came in and seized the economy, people don't work. It is important that the Serbian government maintain its support for this people to continue living in that space, to preserve that Serb entity that is somehow formed, which exists and works. And they are the real discussions of these people from Kosovo who say they should take care of it. However, there is another sentence in this document that says - we can also hire citizens of Serbia for our needs, i.e. legitimacy is created, so that a Serb or a similar person can be taken, who will do what is asked of him for some money. The problem is that further, and where is the border, and what is the border, and what is the response of the Serbian people, and whether there is any response by the Serbian people to any topic, when it comes to the full interest of the Serbian people. In history, I don't want to talk about it, the speakers here often talked about it and went back to 1389, and even this year back, but there are definitely facts that tell us in themselves where we are now compared to the international community. Could we have gotten out more or less, just asking myself as a citizen of Serbia, and asking you as well as the citizens of Serbia, will someone, what I've read now and started reading, ask for more, will they ask us at Nis barracks, will they look for us at the airport and what are we going to say then? I think we should now say that we should absolutely modify these conclusions, so let's keep it in writing in history, because some want their discussions to be written in this history, to say that Serbs should not go to elections. They should not go out, for conditions will not be created for them to be able evenly to exercise their right to vote. It won't be possible in the territory of self-government, and it won't be possible to distract here with us. They won't be able to normally educate their children without talking about providing medical services, about creating elements of statehood, which are contained in these frameworks. They're not elements of statehood, they're elements of a future state. If it's the 17th election, what's going on around New Year's Eve? Around New Year's Eve, someone will recognize that state. She'll get all the elements of statehood. Will we be able to stand up to that? Hardly. In this respect, the unity of the Serbian people, the unity of political parties, the agreement on this topic and the need for individuals to lamentate from here in a unique way. We don't need to, I really don't think we need to talk about it. We need each other to admit that we're in a difficult situation and we need to solve it together. How? By giving absolute support to our Serbs living there and having no bearing on what political parties they are from. These are our fellow citizens, our people and they must have our support. This isn't a new story. The topic now is Kosovo, and so it was in Serbia's Krajina, in western Slavonia, in eastern, in the good part of the entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where, say, Drvar, 95% of Serbian live won elections, but cannot get there, they have a problem approaching the territory. You know, through this Serbia, everyone travels alive. No car of any Croat has been broken today or any other. But the problem is when a Serb moves from here to the Croatian border, he has a problem with whether something will happen to him. The problem is how we look at them and how they look at us. We are not a vengeful people, and here there is a need to represent it as a vengeful people. Is it possible, from the word of the Serbs? Let's be a little tolerant, at least to that extent. In the end, I asked for a few conclusions. The first conclusion is that Serbs do not go to the election at all. Two, let's not participate in the census at all. Who do we have to make a list with? With those who in the last 20 years do not have the citizenship of this state, with those who are somewhere between 250 and 300,000, but who have now entered our country's territory, still sovereign state, at least another day, with the support of the international community and with all those rights to lamentate on Serbian houses, Serbian properties, Serbian towns and Serbian cemeterys. Of course, the story has two ends, which they don't publicly say that these days they've sent 280 young Shipars into training at some base in Italy. This lady is laughing. It's very funny, ma'am, what I'm saying. They sent them. Why did they send them? They need an army for the next time. We don't want any harm to the Shiptars, I guarantee no Serb wants anything bad, I'm just wondering what they want us to do. And finally, it would be good not to argue over these conclusions, give them a real name and say at least formally, without political verbalism, without having to comment here on patriotism, in any way simply saying that we will not accept that Serbs are citizens of second order in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. We're not going to admit to the Shyptar state, we're not going to participate in unfair elections, we're not going to enter the list with you. What's important is that the government's conclusion is real, that we give this people maximum help to keep living for some future time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8270	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vuksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am re-advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 98, which says that the speaker can only speak of a matter that is on the agenda. I was taught by my experience to follow my predecessor's statement and I found that seven or eight minutes did not speak about a subject that was on the agenda or a question that was on the agenda, and that it had gone unnoticed, that you had not warned him, unlike me who spoke about the subject that I was talking about and who I was willing to submit to my presentation, while I received two public notices, as I understood, because the lady chairing had succumbed to the pressure of those who did not want to hear the truth. The fact that you don't want to hear the truth here was the essence of my predecessor's exposure. So, when we want, we'll talk about what we want, when we want, then we'll declare you NATO mercenaries, traitors, those who wanted this country bombed, and if we want to, then let's not talk about it. We'd have to find a minimum of consent. When we want to, we'll say the Rambuje deal is good or bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8272	Mr. Vuksic, this is now a debate. I've listened to you, and for the second time you've advertised the same injury. I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8273	Mr. President, that is the essence of what anyone is saying and what helps the MPs and the public to finally know the truth. It turns out that NATO has great rights under the Rambuje Agreement. However, these same rights, and with that finding, I end up with, and another, much larger, NATO has according to the Kumanov Military Technical Agreement, and I think this public should know, no matter what you think, Mr. President, what I think or any of these MPs in the National Assembly or what someone's going to overstep a little time or not, or which they might get away from the topic or not. So that truth stands over all of us like the Damak sword and we will have to face it sooner or later.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8274	At least now, if nothing else, I got the impression that my colleague was right when I wasn't in the O.R. because now you've broken the Rules of Procedure. As far as keeping a theme, it's hard on this subject to determine what's on the agenda and what's not. We were going back and I think we went somewhere far from the birth of Jesus Christ, then coming down from Karpat, then the Battle of Kosovo, the First Balkan War, the Second Balkan War. That, of course, is not directly a subject, but there must be as much flexibility as possible, but I ask you to let us finish this controversy and get on with our work. The word is Milos Nesovic, followed by MP Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I feel the need, more like a man who spent three and a half years in Kosovo and Metohija, to say today some of my views on the constitutional framework for Kosovo, than as a Republic MP. I know that there are people who have proposed many solutions for Kosovo and Metohija, and I see that there are also MPs who know everything and simply think that it is easy to solve. There are people who will tell us, and to me personally -- you've been in the previous government, you don't need to say anything, leave it to us. It is true, I was three and a half years old in Kosovo and Metohija, otherwise, from the Kings, I was two years head of the district, and a year and a half earlier, as deputy chief. I must tell you that I am proud of the work I did there, which I have done extremely well, and I think you can get one such information in contact with Albanians and Serbs and Montenegrins. My exposure will not be in the direction of solutions -- what to do for Kosovo, what to change, but in another direction, which I think could be useful for the Assembly. The screenwriters and protagonists of our Kosovo accidents have recently been raising tension in municipalities with Albanian living in southern Serbia, thus focusing the attention of state authorities and the general public on this area, while the issue of Kosovo and Metohija has somehow remained in the second plan. The problems in this province have not been addressed to the right extent, neither in the government of the Republic of Serbia nor in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. While the rest of the Serbian and other non-Albanian people in Kosovo and Metohija were barely being, with insufficient and always risky protection of international forces, the second, most, the exiled, has been fighting over the country of Serbia-Montenegro, in troubles of every kind and in extreme uncertainty, and during that time we have been in this house arching time, we have been in this house arching energy to often banal party bickering, outwitting and political exhibitionism, from all sides. So these days we have been found and faced with, according to us, the devastating document of Mr Hekerup, euphemistically referred to as the "Constitutional Framework for Temporary Self-Government in Kosovo", in which there is neither Serbia nor Yugoslavia, and all prerogatives are given to Kosovo, with the institutions of legislative, executive and judicial authorities. Also in the preamble of this document, it is explicitly said that Kosovo's future status will, among other things, take into account the will of the population (read - the will of Albanians). This has already opened the door to the disastrous projection of an independent Kosovo. There should be no expert to see what it means for Serbs and all other non-Albanian animals, given the decision-making mechanism, without veto rights. It is obvious that there is no return to exile in such a constitution, nor the survival of the remaining Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Gentlemen, there are 35,000 in the King. The King has a big problem too, and I always point out, the King's small town, and it puts a lot of pressure on the entire infrastructure. And lately, there's been a lot of dissatisfaction with the citizens of the Kings, as well as with the exiled citizens of Kosovo and Metohija. Are we, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, facing the possible loss of Kosovo and Metohija, on the way to who knows which way, and in this case definitely cancel out most of the eternal effort, results and victims of the Serb people? So in that case, we would become the most shameful knee in the history of Serbia. History and our offspring will forgive this generation all our other defeats, delusions, wanderings, nonsense, but the loss of Kosovo and Metohija will never forgive us. That's why we have to work quickly and wisely. There's no other way. Emotions that I am, unfortunately, possessed of myself, will not be a good adviser to this business, which requires the maximum sense of reality and rational judgment about possible, with no false illusions and projections of free desires, with our emancipation from empty mythology, naive flossules about the celestial people, cosmic justice and other heavens. There is no more time, no more sense, to laminate over the missed, or to make bills - who is and how guilty. We can discuss or quote it in our sessions for days, but that's not how we're gonna solve it. That is why it should immediately form the body of the most responsible, therefore the top people in the country, then representatives of the most responsible and most respected institutions, the Academy of Science, the Serbian Orthodox Church, the University, as well as the most prominent individuals, to determine - what and how to continue to do about Kosovo and Metohija? The sooner we have to have a clear and realistic order of priorities regarding Kosovo, so that we all respect it as the Bible. In addition to the more offensive engagement of our diplomatic network, it would be worth the most prominent and most resourceful people to be sent to all four sides of the world, to knock on every door and use everything to save what can be saved in Kosovo and Metohija. I see it that way, because, today, the issue of Kosovo, I guess we agree, is not only the historical, national, state, economic and spiritual issue, but also the important ethical issue of our people, before which we all pass a great moral exam. For this reason, we must first achieve a full consensus of all relevant social factors, bodies, institutions and individuals, both in Kosovo and outside Kosovo. In order to achieve this, dear fellow Members of the People, we must be much more serious, better, more responsible than we have ever been in this high house. Perhaps, at least because of this historic challenge and the terrible temptation, it is necessary to temporarily forget about the position and opposition, forget about each other's party and personal security and guilt, regardless of the existing ideological and political differences. Finally, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is not an overly political issue anymore, but rather a couple of excellances, a national and state issue. And in the end, I know this is very easy to say, and it is very difficult to achieve, and yet it should be kept in mind that the great password of Ivo Andric, that we will never correct the wrong Drina, but an honest man must never stop correcting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8276	The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8277	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what Slobodan Milosevic did to Serbs in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, and later to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, with the help of DOS, and then DEPOS, who voted for the betrayal, or the capitulation of Serbia by signing the Dayton and Kumanovo Agreement, are also trying to do the same now in this parliament. You're forming some kind of working group that's going to come to some sort of working conclusion, to satisfy the form that would serve to calm the public and the public in a day-to-day policy. You can't calm the public down, and you don't have a conscience. "Lords," you've done enough to the people to throw dust in their eyes. You keep acting like you're doing something serious. However, war criminals -- your NATO brothers and sponsors -- are not paying attention to the demands of the Serbian government, and you promised the citizens in a pre-election campaign that your coming to power will quickly solve all citizens' problems. If Serbs and Serbian states of Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska had decided in Dayton on the fate of Serbs and Serbian states, the Dayton Agreement would never have been signed. The same applies to the Kumanski Agreement, which was decided by Serbs living with families in Kosovo and Serbian patriots from Serbia. The Dayton Agreement was signed by Mr Slobodan Milosevic of the SPS and Mr Vuksic of DOS, as his close associate, and now a senior DOS official. Mr. Vuksic needs to explain whether he was in Dayton a signer or a libel. You know what libel's for.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8278	Mr. Janjic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8279	Now, again, instead of MPs from Kosovo whose families are in Kosovo, here in Parliament define a minimum of Serbian interests, and we adopt it, it is done upside down. Some working group is being formed, which is the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the living conditions of Serbs still living there only knows as much as they have read in information. It is clear that it will not do any good to Serbia or the Serbian people, nor will it prevent the adoption of a Shiptarian constitution in Kosovo. In the current situation, the only thing this parliament can do is make it clear to the international community that Serbia and Yugoslavia will never recognise any legal act in Kosovo and Metohija until the international community respects all the provisions of Resolution 1244 and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Serbs must boycott the announced elections until normal conditions are established for their maintenance. The first three conditions are: First, to discover the fate of all abducted Serbs who disappeared in Kosovo and Metohija after NATO aggression; Second, to allow a safe return and a normal life for all Serbs and other non-Albanians; Third, to execute a census in Kosovo and to leave Kosovo all those who came to Kosovo after 1941 with their descendants and do not have Serbian citizenship. Following the consistent implementation of Resolution 1244, it is possible to discuss amendments to some provisions of the Kumanovo Agreement, which is as anti-Serbian as it is. It should be made clear to everyone in the world that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia and that they will remain forever, no matter what traitors lead the Serbian state. They have no right to alienate Kosovo from Serbia. We are aware that the war cannot restore occupied territory, but we must always show everyone that the day will come when we will regain sovereignty at the green table on all Serbian territories. It will be one way of deterring Serbian enemies, that as a nation we will ever give up the sacred of the Serbian country of Kosovo and Metohija. That's where we all come from. At the last session, where we adopted such a mild resolution on Kosovo, Serbian radicals indicated that NATO criminals would not respect the minimum of Serbian interests. You, gentlemen of the DOS, assured us that Hackerup would accept your suggestions. You lied to us back then, just like you're trying to do today. The white-world father - Mr. Hekerup - has smoothly rejected the country's document on whose territory he currently resides. It may also be good that it all worked out so that the people in Serbia realize that DOS government is neither a favorite nor a decision-making factor in contact with the NATO pact. At the time, Austria had its horsemen - Slovenians, today NATO has DOS. Now to you, Mr. Ivkovic, I don't see him in the O.R., but I guess he's watching a transfer somewhere -- a handful of you have been celebrated as a victory, while the fighters on the battlefield and the Serbs in Kosovo refugees have been crying for treason. The army and the people retreated together from Kosovo and Metohija. There were only one quarter of our brothers left in compact enclaves, or where the concentration of the Serb and non-Albanian population was higher. The others have been on their own, especially since you came to power. In 1389, Serbian Emperor Lazar vowed to the Serbs: "Whoever is Serbian and Serb, and not came to battle in Kosovo, had neither the heart of childbirth nor the male nor the girl's, gave birth to anything from his hand, September wine or white wheat, a rusted cap as long as his knees were. "
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8280	Mr. Janjic, I warn you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8281	Here I am coming back - and today Serbian Chancellor Djindjic vows: "People's MPs, from my friends, and from Serbian executioners, we are looking for a small concession, just as much to prevent Serbs from surviving and protecting Kosovo, to move out of the sacred Serbian country as soon as possible and hand it over to the Shiptars. In that act, we will pardon my and Kostunica's bosses to give us a little charity less than we make in three days on oil and cigarettes. I advise you not to piss them off, because they're going to cut our smuggling channels, so we're going to drag your hand deeper into the people's pocket anyway, because we need the money urgently. Power dark is your first warning. "Members of the Parliament, Slobodan Milosevic should be tried for signing the Dayton and Kumanov Agreement and for possible abuse and robbery. He needs to be tried here for everything he's done to us. On that same basis, today’s government, i.e. Djindjic and Kostunica, who continues the policy of Slobodan Milosevic and on the protection of national interests and on robbery and abuse. They're bigger and faster now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8282	Mr. Janjic, I give you a warning because you do not return to the topic and because you insult.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8283	Thank you. You better learn from his mistakes, so you're just his pale copy, which makes the Serbian people even more unhappy because it's the same crime. For economics to connect their items with Milosevic's...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8284	Mr. Janjic, I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8285	Gentlemen of the DOS, come out on the line - call the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8286	The word is from the People's MP Petar Hungarian.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8287	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I come from southern Banat, from Serbia's Sparta, and I am an MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia from Panchev. Today it is on the agenda of this high house, to use the words of our great poet and academician Matija Beckovic, the most expensive Serbian word. The root of all evils in Kosovo and Metohija, in the second half of the JJ century, lies primarily in the Serbian people. They have not torn and divided Serbia into three parts, neither the Croats, nor the Slovenians, nor the Muslims, nor the Shipari, nor anyone else, but the Serb communists. The crisis in and around the sacred Serbian country in the past 13 years is the most frequently misused problem for daily-political purposes. I must remind myself that the travel of Kosovo and Metohija's statehood began by banning the return of the exiled Serbs after World War II, which, in the later decades, led to the strengthening of the separatist aspirations of the Cypriots by giving more and more elements of statehood to southern Serbia. It began with the magnificent sea of the purest national feelings in Gazimestan in 1989, where the feeling of noble Serbian movement was transformed into daily goods. It ended with the terrible destruction of Serbia and the persecution of Serbs and non-Albanian people from all parts of Kosovo and the Albanian-controlled Metohija. When it appeared in 1989 that light was visible at the end of the Serbian collapse tunnel, when Serbia seemed to be the first to come up with a light of democratic change, we experienced the collapse of the tunnel. Of course, again from Serbian communists. This time, only the dressed but equally deadly for the Serbian national being. Wherever Serbian nationalism was awakened within the former Yugoslavia, wherever it was reportedly protecting national interests, it remained a wasteland. The Serbian people suffered, scattered and disgraced. I am a Serbian nationalist, but I'll never look at another man in the face because he's another nation. On the contrary, I believe that every citizen of Serbia has the right to feel the same way. Today, as the first democratic power, after more than 60 years, we are faced with the severe consequences of irresponsible government leadership by the communist oligarchy and their political satellites. We found an over-indebted, destroyed and unrecognized state. To rule this state, we will need a lot of wisdom, patience, determination, and firmness. Responsibilities, first of all, have Serbs and then all the other nationalities that live in this country. The Nazism of the Albanian population that emerged in Cosmet, and in recent weeks and Macedonia, should prevent the international community, above all. The real intentions of foreign factors involved in solving the crisis cannot be seen with certainty at this point. But the fact is that the adoption of the Constitutional Framework for Temporary Self-Government in Kosovo and Metohija is taking a step further in overcoming militant Albanian Nazism. We experience that at the beginning of the 21st century we are trying to build a state within the state. Before this enormous danger ceases to matter who's to blame. Further responsibility is common. The action that lies ahead in preventing the state of affairs should be common and undeniable. The young democratic government in Serbia is becoming even more vulnerable because it is really difficult to explain to Serbian citizens why one nation is allowed to shape and completely ethnically clear its space from members of other nations, as it seems in Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, we don't have enough maneuver space anymore. Whatever we decide today, we'll make a mistake. At this point, we can no longer controversy with the international factor, but we can only try to mitigate the consequences of the Kumanov capitulation, or Resolution 1244. I listened carefully yesterday to Prime Minister Djindjic, and I hope that the non-transparent action, which he has apostrophe in his second address, will give positive shifts in the resolution of the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija. As far as the cosmic knot is concerned, we're going to need a lot of wisdom and perseverance. For centuries there was an ancient greeting in the Hebrew language — this year in Jerusalem. They have waited to enter this holy city. With the patience we have to arm, I will finish my greetings in Pristina next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8288	The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarević has the word, and then the People's Messenger Gordan Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8289	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Kosovo and Metohija are not the problem of the previous government, according to some today's DOS leaders. The problem of Kosovo is historic, it starts somewhere, and perhaps before, from 1918, 1919 to today. That's what historians will give their judgment on. The activities of Albanians do not affect from this period to today. They had a strategy to create their own state in the heart of Serbia, i.e. in Kosovo and Metohija. That's what they helped Albanians, depending on the historical moment, mostly all of them. And the goal of this was for Serbia, or the Serb people to be as small as possible, so that it would not dominate the Balkans, or that it could not affect any European movement, in the political sense of the word. This constitutional framework, which Hans Hekerup, as an American dobossar, has been tasked with publishing in all means of information, namely that this today's assembly is made known and thus verifies all the wishes and ideas that have been designed to give this framework, i.e. constitutional self-government to life. Under this constitutional framework, Albanians are literally given the state within the framework of the existing Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, or Serbia. There is a comment from DOS leaders that the international community's position has exceeded certain standards regulated by Resolution 1244. It is said that the citizens have chosen us to solve this problem. How to solve this problem, I mean the existing government, when right now we in the Assembly need to make a decision to turn Kosovo and Metohija into a state of Albanians and others. It is said that there are no conditions, but conditions for temporary self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. I think that such a formulation is not good and that we need to resolve all these preconditions in our own way, not that some others, who have no right to do so, except for the right for the Serb people to lose their territory and that the Serb people from that space be expelled. The South of Serbia is like a rapper idea that should be dealt with both Kosovo and Metohija. And that's not true. In southern Serbia, the international community, i.e. America, has projected riots to address the problem peacefully now. There's been a lot of human casualties there, so that's not a calm problem. These were the means of information being followed in an all - out manner and presented to the people in a projected manner. It's mentioned and Rambuje. We Serbian radicals did not send our delegation to this Rambui and did not participate. But when it comes to the group that participated in Rambuje, it does not need to be underestimated undemocraticly. I mean Mr. Vladan Batic, that's how he presented it. In his presentation, Minister Vesenov mentioned how, and this ministry is now participating in monitoring and financing agriculture and forestry in the area. It's just a declarative action, but there's no real action in that space of our ministries. Customs mentions that it was designed by Kouchner, and now Hans Hekerup just realized that institution. Why is this institution now being forced and why has it not received a sharp comment from the DOS authorities? The Serbs have been making blockades for 35 days, and after that, arrangements are being made. So, the rebellion of the Serb people has failed and everything has gone in vain. The DOS proposal is timid, and it is an unquality approach to this problem. The DOS government is afraid to tell the truth, but in mild forms it unequivocally highlights this constitutional framework. The occupation in today's Kosovo and Metohija is UNMIK. He seems to be the government there. And it is. Why aren't our financial sphere laws now being implemented there in Kosovo? You promised that as soon as you came to power, you would enforce all the laws and laws in Kosovo and Metohija. UNMIK cannot take over from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia, because they did not respect much that international law should do. They had an obligation to disarm Albanians. They didn't do it, they want to translate them into the Kosovo Defence Corps, which is the Kosovo Army. Kosovo's sovereignty stems from the people and belongs to it. The free will of the people is the foundation of the state government. That is one point in which this framework should give sovereignty to Kosovo. Kosovo's territory is unique and unchangeable. Kosovo residents have the right to citizenship. The basic language in Kosovo is Albanian, and in the Serb environments there are Serbian and others. Kosovo has a president who represents it in the interior and in the world. Kosovo has the coat of arms, anthem, flag, capital, central bank, governor and currency. They don't need anything else. These are the basic principles of a single country. The Serbian government must now not say that Kosovo and Metohija are not interested, but the Serbian government has a mild conclusion. This is an invitation to extreme humility. All that is done in Vojvodina is linked to Kosovo, i.e. America wants to create the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia with four confederal units. Hackerup has proposed the equality of peoples and nations. It is likely that someone after him will solve it according to other principles and international standards. He's tasked with handling what's in front of us today. The return of displaced and the security of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija does not guarantee this framework for any Serbian security. Serbs feel threatened and experience the constitutional framework of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. There have been comments, and today it is commented, that our foreign diplomacy has done enough so far and that it will solve this problem that is also in Kosovo and Metohija. It is only, perhaps, a wish or an idea, but after every return from any international session of these great forces, we, like Serbia, or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, are given new tasks and obligations to go to harm ourselves. It doesn't seem like it at first, but it feels like it's making progress. We're going to get a certain amount of money, and then we're going to solve the current economic indifference, and what happens after that? All those who influence such foreign policy will be guilty and are already to blame for not using the protection model to make our people feel safer and safer. I don't think we should fight in military terms. At this point, there's another method, and that's aggressive diplomacy, which has to bring a new style. Mr. Prime Minister, we have come to the conclusion that we are looking for a consistent implementation of Resolution 1244. How do we search for consistent implementation when we need to ask Hans Hackerup or someone else to enforce the laws they have passed and that they force us to do. It wasn't our good will or our wish. Minister Mihajlovic noted that since UNMIK was in Kosovo and Metohija there have been 5,440 incidents and various attacks on Serb people and Serbian goods. How come diplomacy didn't highlight data as an international problem? We let them go to every one of our prisons. And in return now, they've got our 1,300 taken and captured out there somewhere. The international community asks us to condemn ourselves and then execute ourselves. That's the case with these famous coolers. There are no Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija who do not feel rejected at this time. The government has not defined our goals. Do we accept or do we not accept this framework? What happens after this frame if he doesn't meet all the demands that Hans Hekerup is looking for? Everything the Government has proposed will have no effect, because new demands should come, or new obligations, that will cancel all of this that we are talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8290	The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8291	First, one principled objection to the President of the Assembly. Mr. President, yesterday you deceived this congregation or tried, rather, to deceive it. You have appealed to all of us MPs that points 1, 6 and 7 of this conclusion will be additionally defined by the working group and that we take account of the debate, most MPs have taken care of it, in particular, respected your remarks. Then you abused it, so you came out here with your suggestions, stressing that these were DSS proposals for a supplement. Which is why I'm saying this. I speak for the simple reason that the conclusion is in itself a little DOS scam. First, the prime minister said it was agreed and that it was the government's position to come up with such a conclusion. Then on the scene, we saw representatives of individual political parties, who presented their proposals, claimed and guaranteed that it would be introduced as an amendment or addition to this conclusion. The best example is the President of the Assembly. So there was no reason to be angry when an SRS MP told you it was demagogy. It's nothing more than the way an SRS representative defined it. What is, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, and how interesting, is that when the government should take one decisive move, it clearly declares its views to the international community as a representative of Serbia, so it resorts to different forms. It is common to these forms that they always seek the mildest form, so that they do not resent the international community. This is one of the evidence, this is obvious evidence that we, through the Government of Serbia, chosen by the will of the DOS, react to everything the world imposes on us. The government is going with conclusions, by providing us with two documents with these conclusions that clearly illustrate the views of this government made up of DOS or representing DOS and international communities towards the coalition or its government. In the constitutional framework, a clear and precise, decadent international community is making it clear what kind of attitude it will take, not referring to those stories that have been covered by the public of Serbia, that this is a respected authority, that this is internationally recognised authority, that everyone is happy to open the door to this authority or representatives of this government, to talk to them on an equal foot, to respect their proposals. Here's one of the evidence, here's one of the denials of everything that you place across the media and Serbian Television. No one who respects you or accepts you more as serious controversies or partners. You serve the world to give you different prizes, for the start of Bambi, and then they'll give you Dudek, and then they'll give someone Regica. That's why you serve this world. The constitutional framework is clearly defined. You want to change what you say, if that were a legal basis, then that would already be an improvement. What changes substance and content? Nothing. In this constitutional framework, the international community has made it clear that thanks to you, it does not have to take care of what it has signed. Even Resolution 1244 no longer obliges them. You run to court Hekerup, to court high officials. Gentlemen, we learn from mistakes, we learn from examples. This was happening to us in Republika Srpska. That's what happens in Republika Srpska. What do you expect, the role of the High Representative of the UN Security Council? Just as it is the role of the international community in Republika Srpska. What do you think he'll respect this constitutional framework? No, I don't. When it comes to selecting MPs, the same or worse will be than it was in Republika Srpska. Who will be from the Serbian representative? Here, in advance, we, radicals, can sign and claim to you that no Serb, who is nationally-oriented, will be able to enter that assembly of Kosovo. They'll be these mercenaries. Those who now work for the international community, travel in the white world, take the diaries, here the states are talking to us about patriotism. (Cheese from the scene: who do you mean? ) Well, on the Trajkovics, both of them, there are as many of them as you like, gentlemen, in Kosovo. The solution to the problem must be sought in a clear and determined position of the representatives of the authorities. You can understand however you want to discuss us, Serbian radicals, but we want to help save Serbia. There's worse than this, gentlemen. The only thing worse than this is that tomorrow they take all of Serbia's territory away from us. It's not far from that. What do you think, this isn't a test balloon for Vojvodina? Yes, it is. A constitutional framework like this will be in force or on the scene when there is a story of Vojvodina. Now you're making mistakes, now you're already making a prerequisite for them that tomorrow they can easily and simply serve you a constitutional framework for Vojvodina. They already have a total of 60 and over 60% of the work and preparation done there, and through the statutes of Vojvodina, through the Assembly of Vojvodina, which exists, through the Executive Council of Vojvodina. If you respect these laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the law, which is proposed by the Vojvodina Assembly, that is the constitutional framework for you. It's the same for you. There may not be a Hekerup, a high representative of the international community, there will be another one. There will be Peter, or there will be someone else standing up, and among you there will be those who can hardly wait for it. You have to understand, gentlemen, there is one moment where you have to be determined to announce to that international community - this is no longer possible. Of course, no one smart wants to worsen the situation they are in Serbia at the moment. But improving for Serbia and the Serbian people, both in Kosovo and Metohija, and for all of us in Serbia, is only a change of attitude. Say, what the people would say, tighten the loop, so tell that international community, that's enough, you can't work in Kosovo and Metohija like that. We tried diplomatically with you, we appealed to Hekerup not to bring the constitutional framework, we gave our amendments, you did not hear, you will no longer respect us as a relevant factor, as an equal. Now we don't want to negotiate with you. I know it's hard for DOS. It's hard for the boss to say you won't. As soon as you lift your head up, they launch affairs, cigarette affairs, affairs that shake Serbia, not gentlemen, DOS. Chuck, you have to listen to their wish and make up some sexual affairs to cover your incompetence. There will be more, especially those who are unnatural, and if you are aware, it will crush you. It broke the U.S. Army, not you. Homosexuals have broken the American army, not you, the kind of...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8292	Mr. Mircic, if you're not ashamed of what you're saying from this pay phone, then just go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8293	I'm just warning, President, we're warning radicals in time to be ready. You must make it clear that these conclusions, will you warn Mr. President of this man, the old timer, not to throw it away. You have to tell the public of Serbia, we are in such a situation now that we have to go out and go hand in hand to the international community. We can't do anything, and all these stories that the prime minister himself told, and also the members of the government, how it will help the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, better for you gentlemen to do it in reality, to realize these stories, not to tell them. When MPs from Kosovo and Metohija, especially those from the DOS, appear, people can't let go, and they're ashamed of how you lie, how you pet your eyes. Isn't it the biggest cynicism when the agriculture minister comes out, now remembered to tell us that the ministry is actively involved in helping Kosovo and Metohija. Then, in turn, one at a time and one by one, and he comes out, and he tells, and you don't say, gentlemen, about what customs were introduced, you don't say, gentlemen, who allowed the checkpoints to be introduced, to place the checkpoints. The meeting of this assembly, the people sees it, and you do not find it appropriate to come out and at least explain to your DOS MPs who are from Kosovo and Metohija, asked for a clear answer. You have to stop this kind of policy-making once, gentlemen. You'd better stop in time. It'll be better for both you and Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8294	Replica, Mr. Trajkovic, followed by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, since I am one of the Trajkovics, I would ask Mr. Mircic to take care in future when he talks about mercenaries, DOS mercenaries, not to mention just the occasional names. Milorad Miricic, from the scene, just to get back to you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8296	You can't, only if you want to apologize. There you go. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8297	My sincerest apologies to my colleague, I was thinking of Rada Trajkovic and those who are like Trajkovics. Rada and this Trajkovic, who is here in the Assembly. My friend, I apologize to you. I apologize to all those honest, honest and honorable Trajkovics and other Serbs who are in Kosovo and Metohija, but I cannot apologize to these criminals and thieves who work for the international community. Once again, my sincerest apologies.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8298	After MP Zlatan Jovanovic, please do not leave the hall, or perhaps just allow me before you, since MPs have the custom of jumping from place, at 14 o'clock we will have a meeting of the Working Group that will try to draw up the text of the Resolution. After that, we will address you, if we agree, with this text, and no matter what there are still enough members of the national parliaments reported, it seems to me that there are mostly exhausted suggestions concerning the very change of text, so I would ask that at exactly 15 hours and 30 minutes after the break, we are here to be able to consider this text and possibly decide on a reduction in the number of MPs who will then take part in the discussion. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8299	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion that has been going on for the second day here suggests that there is unity in some things. There is unity in the awareness that there is a problem called Kosovo and Metohija, and there is unity in that we are all conscious, as well as citizens of Serbia, that this problem is not dating back to yesterday, but rather a problem that has been going on in this country for decades and perhaps more. I will refer briefly here to some facts relating to the Kosovo and Metohija problem. The first fact, these are documents related to Kosovo and Metohija, which have been brought by the international community or some other factors in the past few years. The first document is the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin agreement, then the Kumanski Agreement, and finally Resolution 1244 of the United Nations Security Council, documents that have been crucial to Kosovo and Metohija's status and relationship with the parent state of Serbia in the past few years. These documents are extremely unfavourable for the Republic of Serbia because they limit the state sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia over Kosovo and Metohija. After these documents, we also have a new document, which is the Constitutional Framework for Kosovo and Metohija, which brings a special representative of the Secretary General of the United Nations in Kosovo and Metohija, Hans Hekerup, which goes beyond the previous documents. Namely, this document also tramples and rips off those thin ties left by previous documents between Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia as parent countries. The constitutional framework for Kosovo and Metohija already preambles the final solution to Kosovo and Metohija's status, giving this territory the attributes of the state. I will briefly, not because of the MPs here, but because of the public whose document is not available, simply list some elements of this constitutional framework, which are just pointing to this conclusion, that Kosovo and Metohija are given attributes to the state. In the preamble, the Special Representative of the Secretary-General explains the conditions, needs and intentions for the adoption of such a document. He says -- recalling Security Alliance Resolution 1244, which envisions the establishment and development of a significant self-government in Kosovo, pending a final solution. Here it is very ambiguously written that a final solution is expected, automatically trampling Resolution 1244, because it has defined the final solution, also by defining Kosovo and Metohija as part of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, or the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, Hans Hekerup says, taking into account the legitimate aspirations of Kosovo's population to live in freedom and peace, in friendly relations with other residents in the region -- in order to allow for the determination of Kosovo's future status, one process in the appropriate future phase that will take full account of all relevant factors, including the will of the population. Gentlemen, in all these words, Hans Hekerup is just prejudged the future solution of Kosovo and Metohija because it calls for the will of the population, and we all know the structure of the population in Kosovo and Metohija and we all know what will be the will of the population in terms of Kosovo and Metohija. In the next part of the document, Hans Hekerup envisions temporary institutions of self-government, along with others and the assembly, and the president of Kosovo, thus giving this territory an attribute of the state. It also speaks in this document about communities belonging to the same ethnic, religious and language groups, and says - communities and their members have the right to freely use their language and letter in front of courts, bodies and other public bodies in Kosovo and Metohija, to have education in their own language, to use and highlight Community symbols in accordance with the law. Does this mean that these communities will use the symbols of the Serbian state or their national symbols? Obviously this is the second, which again confirms what I have already said, that these are given extremely broad powers, i.e. attributes of statehood in Kosovo and Metohija. This document provides that temporary self-government institutions have responsibilities in the following areas, including other administrative and operational activities, customs duties. So customs is also introduced, which is definitely rounding this area and physically separated from the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In this document, Chapter 5 says co-operation on justice and correctional services is being provided with relevant entities within Kosovo, which I personally find unclear what entities are concerned about. International and external co-operation is also envisioned by the document, which includes reaching and finalising the agreement. It's probably meant for some international agreements, which is once again the attribute of a sovereign state. Finally, it says -- the provisional institutions of self-government are responsible for enabling close economic, social and other links between Kosovo's population and other Europeans, meaning no mention of the Republic of Serbia, nor of the link to the Republic of Serbia, but of direct links with any other Europe there. In addition to what I have cited, a 120-seat assembly, of which 10 seats are reserved for representatives of Serbs, and the other 110 seats will be representatives of other nationalities in Kosovo. We can immediately assume that there will be over 100 seats reserved for members of the Cypriot national minority in Kosovo and Metohija. It is the first fact that this constitutional framework has been marred by Security Council Resolution 1244, that it has gone much further in making the position of the Republic of Serbia more difficult towards Kosovo and that, as the prime minister said, this constitutional framework is intruding into the sovereignty of Serbia and Yugoslavia in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Another fact that must be pointed out is the promise of the current DOS government in the pre-election campaign that the Cosmeta problem will be resolved very quickly, as well as other problems, if it comes to power. Those DOS promises were then supported by friendship with representatives of the international community, with those who had been eyelessly destroying the Serbian people and the state for 78 days. That friendship was then created and demonstrated by the financing of your political activities and your struggle for power. As you come to power, things change. Your friends so far show their true face. There is no longer unconditional financial assistance, and the current problems in Cosmet show how much your Western friends respect you. They just think of you as their subjects, because they're the ones who brought you into power. To remind only that on May 4th in the Serbian Parliament, we brought resolution and we were unanimous all for it, which was extremely mild, a resolution that we wanted to warn and prevent from adopting such a document. That what I've just said is exactly how much this current government accepts and respects today's friends in the West, says exactly this document that was brought in on May 15th, which means 10 days after that resolution that this assembly adopted. In other words, Hans Hackerup didn't even look back on this resolution, didn't look at it, didn't even consider it. The third fact that I'm pointing out here is that the current power of the obituary has accepted a subjective role towards the so-called so-called. to the international community. That's proof of the documents that are in front of us today. It is more than obvious in the proposed conclusions, and more than shameful in the information provided by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. How humiliating this information is for the Serbian people, the solution of the foreign minister is a minimum that the federal government had to make. The Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which we have here, again, for the sake of the public, says: "It is doubtless that the constitutional framework gives to a certain extent elements of the statehood of Kosovo and Metohija, first of all because the document itself contains the term constitutional, which can imply statehood, which is introduced by the institution of the president of Kosovo, with the authority to represent the unity of the people of Kosovo and take over the activities of foreign affairs and that Kosovo has certain competences in the field of foreign affairs." So, the foreign ministry is already aware that this document is humiliating for the state of Serbia and the Serbian people and is intruding into this sovereignty over Kosovo much further than the Security Council Resolution did. The information further states: "However, it should be pointed out that it is not unusual for other countries to have the authority of self-government territories containing elements of statehood, that the basic act is called the Constitution, the laws, etc., the elements of statehood therefore do not necessarily prejudge the state and international legal status of a territory." The foreign ministry is immediately seeking justification for such a move by the international community and is trying to justify such a document to the Serbian people and the public. Since I can't put all this on the table for a very short time, in the end, the question is what to do at this point. All these facts that I said stand and remain a question of what to do. It is obvious that the current government and the congregation’s majority of the subhuman or vasal relationship to the so - called so - called “domestic majority. ” The international community wants to accept this document. We, as a Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, do not think that the reaction of this assembly, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, must have a tone of protest note addressed to both the United Nations Secretary General Hans Hekerup and all relevant factors, the United Nations and the international community. With one sharp protest, followed by all MPs in this assembly, which would reject the Constitutional Framework for Cosmet and the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, called for a consistent respect for Resolution 1244, for the urgent and unconditional security of conditions for the return of refugees and exiled Serbs and other non-Albanian living, the current authority would only gain weight and importance, and Serbia would get the time needed to finally resolve Kosovo and Metohija's status as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8300	I ask the members of the Task Force to meet me on the second floor, to do the text of the resolution and meet me here at 3:30. [[After break - 16,50]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to establish a quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to resume the session. I would like to inform you that the work of the Working Group has been completed to produce a document called "The Declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the obligations of the international community and the Government of the Republic of Serbia". The text is in sync. We agreed that we would lead the debate up to 1900 hours, that then the final word would be by the presidents of the parliamentary groups, who would like to do so, that I would then read the harmonised text of the declaration and that we would decide on that text. In that sense, the MP groups DOS, the SPS and the SS have withdrawn statements from all MPs who have applied for the debate and we have agreed to speak by two representatives of each parliamentary group and the president of the parliamentary group, or three MPs, as they choose. We have four more applications from the SRS, and now we're going to continue the session. I give the word to the People's Messenger, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8302	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, if you have already agreed to some text and that it is no longer a conclusion, but, as you said, a declaration, then I really don't know what further discussion, until the other MPs get that text, so that we can discuss what we didn't discuss, let's look at it. With my discussion, I'd wait until I was familiar with that text. I think it would be too high to talk about something that's no longer valid. We're waiting for something new.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8303	You called before that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8304	That's right, I called before that text was agreed and amended. So, I'm talking about an old text that may never come to a vote in this people's assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8305	In any case, when we agree to the text, and we have agreed to it, there is no debate in it, it is decided on. Therefore, you applied at the moment when we had just made an agreement to break the debate of 30 and something reported in some way, because all the suggestions and arguments that were needed to make the declaration were made. It is an assessment of all parliamentary groups, I am sorry that you did not participate in the preparation of this text.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8306	Mr. Chairman, it means that in that case I should criticise or defend the government's views.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8307	Let's not have a debate now, you've been invited and appointed to be in the Working Group, all the presidents, vice presidents and deputies. I'm sorry you didn't take part in that. I can't fix it right now. If the other parliamentary groups come forward, if we're to completely end the debate, I can put it on the table. (Employee Veroljub Arsic gives up the discussion. ) (Employee Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Call one of yours, what is this way, Mr. President, we should see what yours will say. ) All applications have been withdrawn. He has the word National MP Bozidar Vucurovic (the ambassador giving up the discussion). I cannot regulate the work of your parliamentary group, you know very well that you are in the body of work. The word is made by MP Momcilo Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8308	Dear MPs, it is obvious that the Serbian Parliament is discussing a very large issue these days, and the statement on this issue is very important for future processes in Kosovo and Metohija. The question is, then, here - what does the legal framework mean and what does it mean to accept the legal framework? I must say that the overall problem with this constitutional and legal framework is, above all, that the Resolution is not being implemented consistently and that it is not being implemented in all its parts. If the resolution were to take place in all its parts, I am sure there would be much less problems, and today we would talk about a constitutional and legal framework, which would not be a threat to the establishment of an independent Kosovo, but rather, we would define so-called. a wide autonomy. I therefore believe that we must insist that UNMIK, or the international community, implement the Resolution in all its parts. If this were to remain in place, if key parts of the Resolution were not implemented, which concern strengthening, i.e. the return of Yugoslavia's sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija, I am sure that the legal framework would finally define an independent Kosovo and Metohija. I therefore believe that, as a state, as a parliament, we must insist that and how we seriously consider the implementation of those parts of the resolution that restore Yugoslavia's sovereignty over that territory. There is, above all, an obligation to urgently raise the issue of returning our army and police to those areas where security is such as to guarantee that they can survive, and such enclaves and such positions in Kosovo and Metohija exist. Secondly, it is very important to open the issue of the return of our customs officers, primarily in the part where the Yugoslav-Macedonian border is primarily. If this resolution were to be implemented in these parts, then this fear that exists today from the legal framework, which is that it defines an independent Kosovo. This would put us in a position, if in this way the sovereignty of Yugoslavia were restored, to define the legal framework in fact so-called. a wide autonomy. There's one more option, these are the information Mr. Hekerup has, which is very important, and to whom these ingenuities would then belong. This would be our special activity, where the final solution to the Kosovo and Metohija issues would respond whether Kosovo and Metohija will stay within Serbia and Yugoslavia or not. The issue of our institutions in Kosovo and Metohija is also very important. I have to say, we haven't used enough of the space left for us and we still haven't been able to establish those institutions that are designed to be there under Resolution 1244. First of all, there is still insufficient agreement between the federal government and the republican government, which is actually the Federal Committee for Kosovo and Metohija. Is it really the coordination of federal and republican authorities? For the time being, he has remained in the areas and competences of the federal state, while, as far as the republican authorities are concerned, they have not yet used the Federal Committee on Kosovo and Metohija to be directly present on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. There are many other institutions that, unfortunately, are disintegrating there today. First of all, I'm thinking about education, so education, sort of health care. I am particularly warning about the issue of Pristina University. While we have an incredibly large national struggle for Albanians in Macedonia to create the University of Tetovo and set it up, on the other hand, we have a very indolent relationship with Pristina University today, if this continues and this kind of relationship has to do with it, it can fall apart. There are other institutions that are very important and that can be in Kosovo and Metohija. That's why I think those questions should be answered. But it is not enough for us to have our country fight for the protection of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. First of all, we need perspective, which is that our country offers perspective and security, that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija will remain and survive. In addition, another important question is the issue of our people's existence. I have to say, that's where we're scheduled. Our people are in one general agony. They simply continued to finance those infrastructures and services they had previously been. We have a paradoxical situation that workers who have worked in businesses, mines, business organisations have been receiving no salary for two years, while on the other hand, workers who have been on the budget continue to receive salaries, each 200 percent. A large number of management workers, in the Interim Executive Council, local authorities, are not activated, and on the other hand we are unable to find the funds to finance an institution called the Federal Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. I believe that there is a key problem, which the Federal Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, or the Federal Government, which has the authority under Resolution 1244, has power but has no power. The key power is in the Republic government and I therefore insist here in Parliament that an urgent agreement be found between the Republic and the Federal Government to perform together in Kosovo and Metohija. The Federal Committee is not an institution that solves problems. The federal committee is just a form through which the federal and republican governments should fulfil their obligations in Kosovo and Metohija. Here, for now, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8309	The word is from Ambassador Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8310	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament. 127. The Rules of Procedure are - the National Assembly brings among other declarations. Art. The 153rd draft Rules of Procedure, declarations, shall be submitted in writing with an explanation, paragraph 2, a proposal for an act referred to in Article 1, which shall be previously submitted to the Members of Parliament and shall be open to a single search. Furthermore, Article 133, the proposal for a law is first followed by a principled search. Article 132, the bill - and the same procedure - is applied before the National Assembly hearings, the competent committees and the Government are considered, unless it is the legislator. So we agreed to discuss one conclusion proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Now you have agreed in your break that the Assembly adopts the declaration. We are aware of the seriousness of the situation and are ready to approach even immediately the vote itself on the declaration, but it is necessary, Mr. President, that this text, before any debate, we have in our hands. I wish at least those isolated MPs for whom they remained bound and agreed to discuss the proposal for a declaration. And every time you try to crush the Rules of Procedure, you cause incident situations. You consciously refer first to the MPs of the SRS, knowing that none of them know what this declaration looks like now, that no one has had the opportunity to see it and knowing that they will talk about something that is completely deplaced, or that we are only talking about history -- how the situation in Kosovo and Metohija occurred. And let's say whether the declaration is good or not, whether we support it or not -- you don't give us that possibility because no one has seen the declaration. Here, the predecessor who spoke did not mention the declaration at all. He spoke about the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. We can talk about that, but we should at least two representatives, if that's what you said, MP groups, talk a few words about the declaration. However, it is an act that remains for all time recorded as an act brought by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this meeting. That's why I asked you, if we've lost an hour and a half waiting for you to make a deal, it took another 15 minutes to print it off and 10 more minutes for the MPs to see that the debate started again. You wouldn't lose anything and we wouldn't exceed the time you set for the end of this session. This is how it's all declassified. Then why didn't we continue at 3:30? You're making a deal upstairs and we're here to have a discussion. Is this now that it's known that there's a declaration that would be an entirely identical debate that would be at 15:30, when it didn't know if it would be and what it would look like. So I ask you not to make a circus out of this House, that Parliament indeed begins to be personally in a place where we will seriously discuss what we need to adopt. We really can't argue right now. The easiest thing is to say or go out for a pay phone or give up the discussion, but we can't discuss what Parliament will bring when out of 250 MPs, except for a few of you, no one has seen it yet. So please, Mr. President, if the printing is in progress, if we're going to get the material, we'll probably get another short break. We're not even getting out of the O.R. But that all of this has some form and shape to look like the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8311	Parliament isn't, and there won't be a circus in it, even though there's a circus in it. So, no regulations of the Rules of Procedure, you know very well, has been broken. You were given the day before yesterday, no, on Monday morning the draft act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and on this act and on this proposal we are having a debate here today. At the beginning of the session, we agreed on a way to work. This way, without objection, has been accepted by all MPs. And that was -- that there would be a debate, that a working group would be formed in which you, by your definition, did not participate, which would write a definitive text, a harmonised text, and that working group did so. Like the last time we brought resolution on Kosovo, we were doing exactly the same thing, there were no objections. At the end of the session, a harmonised text is read and is put, without discussion, of course, because it is a harmonised text, to decide. Whoever's against it, votes against it. Whoever's in, votes in. It's precisely because of the seriousness of the subject that it really doesn't make sense to open these questions in this way. You've been discussing it for two days. [[You can't hear any comments from the gym.]] Mr. Vucurovic, for two days you've been discussing the proposed act by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the definitive text, as if you've fallen from Mars, is always at the end of the debate a harmonised text and nothing else and can be. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: It is not true. We won, and we went out to talk about it. ) Not true, but I went out for this pay phone and read the harmonised text. The People's Messenger Toma Busetic has the word, and after him, the Messenger Peter Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8312	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, the Constitutional Framework for Cosmetic Self-Government, apparently speaks of the international community's intention to create another Albanian state in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. The constitutional framework speaks of the international community's relationship to the new government. It is clear that America and the European Union do not care much, nor do they care about who is in power in Serbia and the SRJ, whether it is Milosevic, Kostunica or Djindjic. In any case, they want to implement and achieve their goals. The constitutional framework, though reportedly temporary, prejudges the final solution to Kosovo's and Metohija's status. How else do you interpret elections in Kosovo and Metohija, without the return of Serbs and Montenegrins? What is meant by the choice of organs, such as the president of Kosovo and Metohija, which will represent Kosovo and Metohija abroad or, as it is said here, to deal with the maintenance of external parliamentary contacts, the assembly with the legislative role, the Kosovo Protection Corps, which should care for the security of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, the coat of arms and the flag of Kosovo and Metohija. Hans Hekerup's constitutional framework de facto declares a new Albanian state, abolishes the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the SRJ and Serbia itself, and for the rest of Serbia's animals, it puts out every hope of survival in these centuries-old areas. The very document of the government of the Republic of Serbia, called the conclusion, is soft, general and non-binding. It mainly comes down to the protection of the freedoms and rights of the Serb-Montenegro population. That way, it's as if we're in advance agreeing to the status of a national minority. This conclusion agrees in advance with the loss of sovereignty in that part of the territory. I believe the government of the Republic of Serbia's document would have to contain one very determined request. It's not about strong words, but it's about a clear attitude. So, the requirement to strictly respect Resolution 1244, which is not an expression of some of our best wishes, but, in any case, Resolution 1244 represents one compromise. Resolution 1244 guarantees the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country - SRJ. The problem in the Resolution itself relates most to points that have not been implemented. It is about disarming Albanian terrorists, ensuring the return of exiled Serbs and Montenegrins. The Serbian-Yugoslavia government, the Serbian Parliament, must resolutely reject those elements of the constitutional framework that exceed and go beyond Resolution 1244, as this document is simply directed directly against the interests of the Serbian state and the Serbian people. The constitutional framework meets only the requirements of the Albanian national minority, which is now becoming a people, gets the status of the people, and all Serbian requirements and proposals are rejected. Returning or, better say, by introducing state attributes to Cosmet, with Albanian police, with the Albanian judiciary, the fate of the remaining Serbs will be sealed. The maximum service the government and the entire DOS has shown and which it calls co-operation with the world will not do any good to the Serbian people or to our country as a whole. The best example is that this is the case for Macedonia, which has been carrying out all possible NATO pact and America's tasks for 10 years, but when the time came when the interests of America came, they encouraged Albanians to rebel with one single goal -- to reach federalisation and to divide Macedonia. So that's the best proof that service cannot turn the protagonists of the new world order away from their intentions. Here some MPs spoke of the fact that the SPS and previous authorities had not done enough to resolve the Kosovo and Metohija issues, and, among other things, talked about privatisation. Privatisation has been made in Macedonia, so we see what it has come to. So that's not what this is about. I would really welcome here a few sincere and good discussions of DOS MPs from Kosovo, who clearly spoke of the current authorities' mistakes, but who made it clear that so-called. The international community, which is a dictatorship of America, thinks nothing of our people, thinks nothing of our country. There were also words that UNMIK and KFOR had fallen into Kosovo's mud and were afraid of conflict with Albanian terrorists and now they don't know what they're going to do or where they're going to go. We had a solution, our position was always clear - that they did not carry out their mission and that they should withdraw from those areas, and we will know behind how to resolve this painful issue of Kosovo and Metohija. There were speeches here from some members of the government, that our biggest mistake was taking away the autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija from 1974 and that in some ways it led to the present situation. It forgets that in 1981, when the constitution was in force, there were major demonstrations of Albanians or Shipara in Kosovo and Metohija. Why? They only asked for one right for which they were denied, which is the right to self-determination. Of course, by this constitutional framework, they would have realised that right very quickly. After all, Albanians had all other rights in Kosovo and Metohija, but only used them selectively. So they used treatment, but that's why they didn't pay taxes, they didn't pay electricity, they didn't pay phones. That's it. There have been several, in my opinion, yet untapped statements by members of the government, related to our harsh reality, to our moral catharsis, of course, referring to our guilt. I don't think we should talk like that, because when we talk about some cruel reality that we have to face, about all the events in the past 10 years, let's first face the Americans, and then the Croats who caused the wars, and then the Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, and then we can talk about our guilt. Let us not find ourselves guilty, for it will have great and far - reaching consequences. In the end, one survey was made these days. I think the poll was made by this Kostunica truth commission or some other government organization. The main theme was -- who's to blame for the last 10 years, for all the events? Do you know what the results are? It says the Croatians are guilty first with their nationalism and chauvinism, and then NATO pact for their projections and occupations. Well, the Separatism of Albanians, Muslims. That's what the survey said. Then the surveyors jumped, and they said, "The people are in error." The people need to be enlightened, that's not true. It's not the people who are mistaken. Only in a few months, if a new poll is made, will there be even more of these results, as I said. Not to mention the second part, who are the biggest defenders of both our country and our people, and it was said in the survey -- Mladic, Karadzic, Milosevic. That's what happened. At the very end, I believe it is necessary to adopt a resolution that will reject all points of the constitutional framework, coming out of Resolution 1244 and other documents already adopted, which provide Serbian statehood in that territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8313	It is mine to ask, since there are the People's MPs Bozidar Vujic and Srboljub Zivanovic, have you given up the discussion or are you participating in the discussion? They're in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8314	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Kosovo and Metohija were also the other polygon where many gained political points and their successes. The only Serbian Radical Party, with its politics and patriotism in the hardest days, stood by and stood by its people. Kosovo and Metohija are not only part of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija are Serbia. About the history of Kosovo and Metohija, many conversators have said a lot. Many of you do not know, but those who are from Kosovo and Metohija know that the flower next to the monument of Kosovo heroes in Gazimestan is called "Kosovo Božur". This flower has been tried by many to transfer to other parts, but it has not been accepted, it has died. Kosovo's bojour is only successful on a country that is soaked with Serbian blood. The new government, don't laugh, wants June 28th, Vidovdan to be a republican holiday. A day to remind of the heroic brooch of the Serb people, of the Kosovo struggle. If we lose Kosovo and Metohija, we lose this heroic day that is important in Serbian history, then it should no longer be celebrated. Hans Hekerup signed the Constitutional Framework for Temporary Self-Government in Kosovo and Metohija on 14 May. The text shows that Kosovo and Metohija are an independent state and that it contains the following institutions, which is the assembly, the president of Kosovo, the government, courts and other institutions established by this constitutional framework. In this constitutional framework for temporary self-government, no conditions under the Kumanovo Agreement are engraving. Resolution 1244 carries basic and essential components related to the integrity and sovereignty of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, where the international community assumes on itself the right and responsibility for the security and equality of all citizens on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and the creation of conditions for the return of all exiled persons to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and for public peace and security. After two years of stay of KFOR and UNMIK, with Kushner headed, and now with Hekepur , continues the policy of double standards. [[Applause]] The persecution of Serbs, the non-Albanian population and those of Albanians loyal to the Republic of Serbia continues. The international community did not respect a certain postulate, based on which it built Resolution 1244, and on which it formalised its presence in Kosovo and Metohija. There are no basic security elements, there are no witnesses to 1,300 abducted citizens. The international community wants to ignore Serbia's political will, especially the political will of the Serb and non-Albanian populations of Kosovo and Metohija. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not know who the Serbian representatives who have given amendments to the proposed text of the legal framework, although all amendments have been rejected. As far as I know, the Assembly and the Government have not elected representatives, yet someone acts independently, without knowing the greatest legislative body of the Assembly. They're a couple of Trajkovics, and Mr. Trajkovic, difficult for the Serbs you represent. Mr. Trajkovic, I have to tell you in your current discussion, you say, "Trla Baba lan, let her pass the day." You say, democratic forces have come, forces that are in relation to the previous regime of forces that are due to end Kosovo. As head of the DOS government in Kosovo, you talk about problems as if someone else is there, not you. The federal committee is there formally, and I think you're there too. In the pre-election campaign, DOS promised, and a huge number of citizens expected when those close to NATO's pact came to power, to stop anti-Serbian politics. However, this has not been achieved, the Western forces are only now continuing to crack the Serbian state with full intensity and achieve their goals. Yesterday's statement, and these days too, Justice and Local Self-Government Minister Vladan Batic calls the Serbian people's struggle a criminal one. All those who fought in Kosovo and Metohija, defended their people and their country, must go to the indictee's bench, go through moral catharsis and eventually admit to being criminals. Minister Batic releases 150 Shipatarian terrorists, well-trained and well-preserved, and our arrested KLA Serbs, by chance if they let them out of prison, must go to the hospital immediately, because they both physically and mentally destroyed human dignity. Minister Vesenov declares that the Ministry of Agriculture is helping the remaining Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija in food and repromation for sowing and oil. That's not true! By introducing customs checkpoints, the remaining Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are importing food from Serbia and are not receiving help. As for the reoccupation of the sowing and oil sites, I don't know who Veselinov could provide them with, Serbs can't sow and reap because they're threatened with the life threat of the Ship's terrorists. He probably provided it all to the Shiptars. We witness many murders in fields and forests. I think Mr. Veselinov is telling a great lie and a lie. Because, in my statement that no grain of wheat should leave the territory of Vojvodina, I wonder who the Minister of Agriculture helped. Mr. Vesenov's public appearance yesterday for the assembly speaker speaks of the autonomy of Vojvodina, and we are witnessing that autonomy until it was abolished had greater authority than the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the government and government representatives understand this problem is seen by their presence in the Assembly yesterday and today. It must be resolved by the property of Serbs who have escaped from Kosovo and Metohija, and cannot return to their family hearths. They are now living in some forced reception centres, and their facilities, their houses are being used by settlers from Albania. The government, with the minister of education and sports, Mr. Gaš Knezevic, wants to abolish the University of Pristina. It's supposed to be material assets, and we know it's not true, but the University wants to give it to the Shiptars and KFOR for management. Independent of all party considerations, I think this assembly as the largest legislative body should not accept the constitutional framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. Let's just remember the prince's curse - do not let Brankovic have more than Obilić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8315	The word has a People's MP... Here you go, straight to the line, Mr. Momcilo Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8316	I'm really not a man who, at no point, wants to give rise to conflict and quarrel, especially when it comes to this problem, the problem of Kosovo and Metohija. For several times in recent months, I have been openly demanding and criticising the government even though I belong to it, and I ask that the Kosovo-Methochial issue be approached extremely seriously, because I have no intention, regardless of my position, no matter what I am in that power, that I am responsible for what I am not responsible for. So, let me put it this way, urgently the Federal Committee for Kosovo and Metohija must be an institution where both federal and republican authorities will find a place in Kosovo and Metohija and offer a solution. As for my formal presence, I must say that, unfortunately, or fortunately, every day with that people, I visit it throughout Kosovo and Metohija, and most often under the most difficult conditions, mostly without escorts, without protection, most often threatened, but well, I accepted and continued to work. I propose here the following -- in addition to the fact that our state must find economic resources that this people can survive, we propose a Fund for Kosovo and Metohija, we propose a Kosovo supplement for that people, we propose that all municipalities throughout Serbia, including Montenegro, be directly involved in helping individual villages. But I would also suggest that 250 MPs, who speak of Kosovo and Metohija these days, not only speak, but find themselves there in Kosovo and Metohija. I propose that we make a joint work plan and visit Kosovo and Metohija, and I think it is possible that two MPs can be in charge of certain local communities and that we meet there on the spot, to see how this people live, what they need, what we need to help and then come and make a hero. If there are any, ready, I'm willing to participate. And finally, I propose to the Assembly to declare whether it is ready to charge Kosovo and Metohija, for certain municipalities, or for certain local communities and individual villages, by two MPs, who will be there to bear responsibility for the fate of that people. If we accept that and we find ourselves there with open hearts and show our courage, then I accept that we speak to those downstairs in the way we speak. To end with how formal I am not there, in my right thigh is a bullet from Albanian terrorists, which I got because I am in Kosovo and Metohija and because I left Pristina among the last, sacrificing my life, to show that Serbia exists there. But I hope someone appreciates it after all. However, if this proposal is accepted, then we will really help that people and psychologically support them so that they can withstand all these experiments that are being imposed on them today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8317	The word has a People's MP... According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you are, MP Milorad Mircic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8318	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have a proposal, since we have received the text of the declaration, I would ask the chairman and all my colleagues in the Assembly to take one break, which doesn't have to take more than 15 or 20 minutes, so that we can read this declaration, that the speakers who go out for this assembly speak about this amended text. We need to be aware that this is a document that is fundamentally different from those conclusions with these supplements. Secondly, no matter how bile or otherwise demonstrated our discussion, we all realize that every one of us when he speaks and pronounces Kosovo and Metohija, he does it with great respect, not to say with excitement, because everyone in this room, if nothing else, then most of us think the same thing when it comes to the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, in order to avoid certain problems, the proposal is to take a 15-20 minute break. Tomislav Nikolic, in front of the SRS, suggested it earlier. We won't leave this room, give us time to read, to study for these people coming out for a pay phone, so we don't have a contradictory discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8319	Mr. President of the Assembly has already answered this question and I don't think there is a need for a break, especially since the Serbian Radical Party has only one registered candidate, which we can end up with, you have time to meet. Do you want me to put your candidates in the final discussion? You got the text, you had time to read it. The People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic has the word. If you want me to put you to an end, Mr. Vujic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8320	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a flight inspection, here's how long it's been since getting this, nothing differs this girl of yours, because it's not a declaration of the Serbian Parliament, from those conclusions you've given. It is unnecessary for me to read these new nine points, since in any case, how many DOS newspapers tomorrow will announce the great victory of the anti-Serbian forces in the Republic Parliament. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, the People's MPs, the Segedin Group, however, are cynical, but there is no point in being cynical, they say it is called the Government of the Republic of Serbia, discussed the Information on the declaration of the Constitutional Framework for Temporary Self-Government in Kosovo and Metohija. Those who aren't cynical say it's the Segedin group. On the other hand, they wonder why the Segedin Group or the Government, as it calls itself, considered the Information, when, on May 4th, as much as we brought the declaration to this assembly, we ordered the same Segedin Group to try not to bring the constitutional framework into question, in co-operation with the federal government, in a resolute conversation with UNMIK. Since the Segedin group has done everything contrary to what it was meant to be, it is obvious that this Hans Hekerup, who is only a mediator between the UCC and this Segedin group, brought the constitutional framework together. Then why would this Segedin group work against the mediators and against themselves and bring something else from what she brought. It was the Segedin group, the government, that brought the constitutional framework to the community, in line with Albanian terrorists and extremists. That's how we have to look at that constitutional framework. The Segedin group is working very transparently on the sale of Kosovo and Metohija. The constitutional framework, ladies and gentlemen, for temporary self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, means the Segedin Group -- the government, with little help from Albanian extremists and mediator Hans Hekerup. The constitutional framework for temporary self-government was adopted, but he was preparing a referendum for secession, which the Segedin Group absolutely allowed. The constitutional framework is the preparation of a new Kosovo constitution. Albanian extremists, terrorists were the eternal struggles. Very few have intelligent powers that could bring this constitutional framework. That is why this government, this Segedin Group, has helped them and proposed this constitutional framework, with the play on May 4th that this assembly fakes democracy. The Kosovo Constitution, Kosovo and Metohija without Serbia, for Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija. One of the DOS speakers said, repeating and quoting the words of the Serbian poet, and said -- Kosovo is the most expensive Serbian word. As of today, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Kosovo really is the most expensive Serbian word. You led her to the triviality of you from the Segedin Group, you from DOS, because you intend to sell Kosovo and Metohija. This is the result of what the Segedin group has been doing since October 5th. Serbs with Kosovo on their lips, Serbs with Kosovo in their hearts, Kosovo in their souls, Kosovo in spirit and genes will remain in the heart of Serbs and for future times, because God, neither the DOS nor the Segedin Group will soon be. Serbia, Serbia, Kosovo, is one thing, the same word, and that's just one word. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can agree, with a great deal of pain, but I will try to agree with one colleague, a member of the DOS, who, as much as yesterday for this speaker, said that this debate on Kosovo and Metohija is neither literary, nor poetic, nor epic evening. I'll try and get along as well as I can figure it out. With this declaration now, it's absolute and I get it. I understand he must humbly obey the orders of the Segedin Group, the government's orders, so-called. Serbian governments, otherwise DOS governments. It's not the Serbian government anymore, and it won't be anymore from today. Not for every issue of Kosovo and Metohija, nor the fate issue, nor the Serbian issue. The DOS speakers showed this, the declaration also shows, and very transparently shows the Segedin Group, which some of the government of the Republic of Serbia has cynically said.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8321	Mr. Vujic, I give you a warning because you have offended the people's message of Hope Kolundji and the messengers of the DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8322	But for me, as a member of the Serbian Radical Party, it is both fate and Serbian. I was an MP for the Serbian Radical Party when it was in opposition, when Milosevic under pressure, and in part and in agreement, handed over the Western Slavonia, Miljevci plato, Medački pocket, Maslenik Bridge. I watched, as did the whole of Serbia, columns of exiled, columns of disillusioned, lost, columns survived by Pakrac, but were fortunate to reach Bosnia and Herzegovina. They were chased by the sons of the slaughterer from Jasenovac, and the Jasenovac was there again. That was as much as yesterday, and today Kosovo and Metohija, only someone from Jasenovac went to DOS, only some of the Jasenovac's cutthroats became the Segedin Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8323	Mr. Vujic, I give you a second warning on the basis of article 101, and I ask you to mind what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8324	I was an MP for the Serbian Radical Party when it was in opposition, when Milosevic set the border on Drina, again under pressure, and partly in agreement. It's called good service to the international community, and then it happened to us, Dayton. Someone wanted that Dayton to be a general. He is sitting here today as a DOS MP in the Republic Assembly and he, since he has lamentated after this speaker and considered her a confessor, can tell you what he advised and urged Milosevic to sign in Dayton. After Dayton, easier than before, because peace has no alternative, we had both the Storm and the Erdutic Agreement, but we got both columns and lost souls. With sanctions, we were already related. That was as much as yesterday, and today you DOS gentlemen are offering us Kosovo and Metohija, to discuss it, and you sold it. I was an MP for the Serbian Radical Party when it became a position, when it entered power and I remember when Milosevic, because peace has no alternative, under pressure, and in part and in agreement, asked to go to Rambuje near Paris. The Serbian Radical Party did not go there.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8325	Mr. Vujic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8326	Listen then and you will see, and you will learn what is the matter. I remember they came from Rambuje, humiliated and blackmailed. We, the Serbian radicals, did not accept Ramboi. I remember the beginning of June 1999 when, because peace has no alternative, Milosevic capitulated and handed it over to the international community, which always with good intentions, and handed it over to Kosovo and Metohija. Serbian capitulation radicals did not vote. That was as much as yesterday, and that's today. Kosovo and Metohija are occupied. Obviously, we Serbs have a bad historical memory. Because on June 4, 1920, in Trijanon, somewhere near Paris, the international community of good intentions and then drew Serbia, the winners of World War I, the border of the state. From the newly created Hungarian column of refugees, the columns of optanans, were returning to the queen, returning to Serbia, returning to Kosovo. After Rambuje, by the end of Paris again, by the case of June, again in 1999...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8327	Mr. Vujic, since you do not follow the subject after the warning, you have been given two warnings and you have exceeded your time, I take your word. Please step away from the pay phone. The People's Messenger Petar Petrovic has the word, and let the MP Anita Beretic prepare for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8328	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, the Constitutional Framework for Temporary Self-Government in Kosovo and Metohija, which has been formed by Hans Hekerup, is just another step that makes the international community headed by the United States to separate this part of Serbia and Yugoslavia from its queen and to join Albania or another country in further developments. Although Security Council Resolution 1244 guarantees territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, this constitutional framework violates that resolution and allows Albanians to achieve their long-drawn goals. The question arises, why the international community now, when in Serbia, after the December 2000 elections, came those political forces that had full support from the same international community, did not step forward on the return of Kosovo and Metohija to Serbia-Yugoslavia constitutional and legislative systems, thus showing that it is within internationally recognised borders to preserve Serbia's integrity, i.e. Yugoslavia. I am sure that the reason is very clear, or, as it is said popularly today, transparently, should be implemented until the end of what has long been agreed, which is the secession of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia, respectively, from Yugoslavia. That what I said is true, best and in a direct way confirms the constitutional framework of Hans Hekerup, which predicts that Kosovo and Metohija have all the attributes of statehood, which are: their territory, full independence, authorities, legislative, executive and judicial, their flag, and later probably coat of arms, currency, has now the president, etc. The mentioned document by Hans Hekerup, in no place, provides for the right of Serbia or Yugoslavia to, through its state authorities, interfere in Kosovo and Metohija's internal affairs. So there's a state in the country. It is particularly concerned that this constitutional framework treats Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija as an ethnic community or, more specifically, rather as a national minority. Please, is it possible for a Serb in his own country, in any part of his territory, or Serbia's territory, and especially in Kosovo and Metohija, to be a national minority and to wait for a representative of the international community, by some legal act to enable him to exercise his civil rights? If it's both Hans Hackerup and the international community, it's a lot. Speaking of ethnic communities, which Hans Hekerup has set out for how many parliamentary mandates they are entitled to in the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly, I cannot help but mention one, which is made up by the gentleman, which is the Bosniak community. Where, when and how this ethnic community in Kosovo and Metohija came into existence, Hans Hekerup himself certainly doesn't know, but he says, for reasons only he knows. The Soviet Union finds the constitutional framework proposed for Kosovo's temporary self-government and Metohija unacceptable, for several reasons -- legal, moral and historical. At no cost should such a constitutional framework be accepted. There is no mandate, no Serbian or federal government, and neither does this assembly. I can't help but look back at the international community's behaviour and its double arches, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, and citizens who lived, and now live in these areas. On the one hand, there are maximum efforts to meet all requirements for Albanians, all under the pretext of being oppressed by previous authorities. I'm not just thinking about the authorities here for the past 10 years, but I'm thinking about all the authorities that have been in the former Yugoslavia since 1945, that the imbibes have been taken away from some fundamental human rights, etc. As the Albanians lived in Kosovo and Metohija under the previous authorities, I guess they best speak the following facts - they had the exact same rights as all the other nations with whom they lived in these areas, which are - right to work, to freedom of movement, to free education in their native language, to start from primary school to university, to show their religious understandings, etc. On the other hand, Serbs who have remained in Kosovo and Metohija today have neither of these rights. Did the international community allow Serbs, including other non-Albanians, to have the same rights as Albanians? Declaratively, yes, practically not. What does the international community and Hans Hekerup do to enable more than 350,000 Serbs and non-Albanians, exiled and exiled, to return to their centuries-old hearths, to their homes, to their jobs, to their estates? They live today in collective accommodations across Serbia, or in relatives and friends, in most cases without any material conditions for life and work, waiting for the day when they will receive some humanitarian help to survive. And here I would make a trip -- is it possible that Albanians today, and back a few years, are looking for new rights. What country did they get rich in? Today, there are very wealthy people in these areas, who are Albanian, or Albanian. They didn't pay taxes to this country, and they enjoyed all the rights. They educated their children, treated themselves and their family members, gave no money to this country, nor paid taxes, nor paid electricity, nor paid utility services, and no Serbian inspector or any other forced authority was allowed to enter those places where Albanians lived, where they were purely ethnic Albanian settlements, to try to collect what was state. And when the state took measures to collect it, then the international community entered to protect these people, who, behold, are oppressed and want the state to take what is theirs. I'm sure Hans Hackerup knows that very well, but he doesn't care much. Its main goal is to carry out the assigned task consistently, which is to keep Kosovo and Metohija alone, and later to know what to do next. Based on what I've presented, I believe there can be no speech about any self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, until the last exiled Serb and non-Albanian returns to his home and is given the right to a safe life. It is also necessary to carry out a valid census in Kosovo and Metohija and return to their countries of origin all those who have no proof that they are citizens of Serbia. So those who have come illegally to Kosovo and Metohija in the last few years. Only then would a realistic and acceptable basis be obtained for some kind of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. But then, and this self-government, or autonomy, would have to be within Serbia and Yugoslavia, where those laws and rules, which apply in other parts of Serbia, would apply to all other citizens of Serbia. And to take the opportunity, just to remind myself that a letter of Serbian living in Kosovo's Pomorie came to the SS yesterday, from the municipalities of Novo Brdo, Kosovo Kamenica, Gjilane, Vitina, Urosevic (not from these places, but from the enclaves in which they live), in which they complain of the amazing life they have there. They're just found, like they're in the ghetto, so they can't get out of those places. They're literally starving today. I ask that this be taken seriously, that the state of Serbia, through its representatives, is taking some steps urgently, in order to provide these people with some necessary assistance at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8329	The word is from the People's MP Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8330	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, I have listened carefully to participants in the debate so far and, as a Serb from Kosovo and Metohija, I am very pleased with the degree of understanding of the difficult situation we are in right now. Personally, I wish it hadn't been for moments of too strong parliamentary tones, but I see it as a necessary consequence of very different political options, to which the honourable fellow MPs belong. I remind you that the SPS parliamentary group, which I belong to, has asked for a debate on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija for another February, while the topic of the debate on the text, which has been brought about by a certain foreigner, however high he was quoted in the international community, was imposed quite later. So we do not need to bring a declaration, whose basic motto is repairing Hekerup's text, but a document expressing our unwavering position that we do not give up on the federal, neither the republican constitution nor any of the rights arising from them. Dear colleagues, the SRJ state has recently been admitted to the UN and thus this international organisation has automatically recognised our current federal constitution, and thus, territorial sovereignty and integrity of the SRJ. I remind you that under that constitution, the Republic of Serbia is an integral part of the SRJ, and the province of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. So, without a change in the Republic and federal constitution, and especially the Republic, for which we have to ask the people in the referendum, this assembly has no right to accept any legal act that conflicts with the fundamental legal act that represents the Constitution of our country. That's why I need to be in the declaration instead of the position in which this Hekerup paper will be mentioned, here we together ask the international community when it will meet its obligations under UN Security Council Resolution 1244. So, when will it be possible to return our security and customs forces to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, but not customs, which is now set in line with the spatial part of the Republic of Serbia, but customs to the Republic of Albania and to the Republic of Macedonia. Therefore, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we should ask someone in this country -- why customs are allowed, but also to ask them from the international community -- why it is not set up where it belongs, in accordance with the applicable SRJ regulations and UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Also, we should not talk about Shitpar terrorists as some abstract notion that threatens the fundamental rights of non-Albanian living in the area of Metohija and Kosovo, if we know that authorised representatives of the international community have not disarmed so-called. The KLA, which is also the obligation of the international community under Resolution 1244, has already changed them into new uniforms and given them new markings. So let Mr. Hans Hekerup and Dan Evers, instead of trying to translate our people and the state through water, planting something that is not in our best interests, make sure they implement in their lives all those provisions of UN Security Council Resolution 1244 which are just the interests of our people. Because of everything previously exposed, I believe that our generation should not give up the vows of its ancestors, the interests of future generations, but to use the only but powerful weapon that we have left in this situation -- we will not, will not, will not and will not give. And one more thing, I remembered what one man told me in the middle of the last decade when he came back from his trip through Russia, which is that the most common graphite on the walls of Russian cities was "Serbia - Stalingrad". Let's not be the only ones who haven't seen what everyone else has seen in a long time. No one can force this assembly to formally accept the denial of its most vital interests of our people -- Kosovo and Metohija. It's the key moment of the entire debate and our strongest and most powerful weapon. Dear colleagues and colleagues, co-operation with the UN in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, in order to create favourable living conditions, does not mean at all that we have any obligation to change our legal acts for this reason, let alone to bring them into line with those which they - foreigners - are now imposing on us. All these acts of UNMIK and Resolution 1244 have only a temporary character, and our right to the Metohija is eternal and permanent on our Kosovo. Today there were words here from my distinguished colleagues about some cooperative Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija. However, let us remember examples from not such ancient history, which can convince us that these cooperative Serbs have not had any success in working with their enemies. Let me give you an example. An example of the Banjski camp, in which some cooperative Serbs allowed more than 80,000 non-operative Serbs to be killed. I think the example is more than convincing. They accused us of inoperableness and forced us to be cooperative. Haven't we called more than 20 times on the Ship's national minority to co-operation, to talk to the country's most legally elected authorities in Pristina. They don't even want it then, and we can see they don't want it now. So, the problem is not who is in power in the state of Serbia, but for them, only Serbia and those Cypriots in the space of Metohija and Kosovo that are not the Cypriots from that space are the problems. But that's why I'm saying all this. I'm talking about all those famous and unknown heroes who have given their lives for Metohija and for their Kosovo in Serbia over all those exiled just because they're not Shiparians who live who know where and in what conditions, because of their kidnapped families and friends. I wonder and ask all of you, who was disturbed and threatened by the pigeons by young men from Peći, Ivan Obradović, Zoran Stanojevic, Svetislav Ristic and Dragan Trifunović or by the pigeons wounded young people Radević, Lončarević, Sabović and Nikola Rajovic, many others known and unknown. Their murder and injury, as well as the murders of others, are a crime that overcomes all crimes with its cruelty, insolence and cowardice. Dear colleagues, I will finish my presentation with the verses which, when they first heard, cannot be forgotten "In my heart, the pupils of the eye, I keep for you the most beautiful dreams. Raise your head, early deep, we're not leaving you, you're staying with us, my Kosovo." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8331	The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8332	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the question of who is to blame for this situation in Kosovo and Metohija, we must be self-critical and say that they are all guilty. It's the wrong position, it's the opposition's fault. It is even the citizens who consider themselves apolitical, who do not want to interfere with political debates, and from the end condemn one or another policy. It is the Serbs, the Shiptari, the international community, and that is the state it is, and we remain to do what is our duty and what is our task, to save Kosovo and to keep it in Serbia-Yugoslavia. One big question arises when it comes to UN Secretary-General's powers, as by circumstances I had the opportunity to take a direct look at the UN Charter. The UN Secretary-General is the UN's chief administrative officer. The logical question arises, how is it possible that such an officer could pass on to someone named Hans Hekerup all these powers that this man has. If the UN Secretary-General had the authority to change borders, social order, ethnicity in certain states, surely it would not be Kofi Annan, and before that, Butros Galli, Kurt Waldheim or U Tant. There would be world wars around this place and everyone would fight for that position. So, we're aware that it's just the officers and that politics is being run elsewhere. As UN Secretary General Hans Hekerup's special representative, he did something he absolutely had no right to by adopting this constitutional framework. That's what I want to say. Since there are no government representatives here, I wanted to suggest that in all contacts they insist that we have a serious excess of authority and that we have a transfer of authority to someone who couldn't possibly have it. This declaration, which is likely to be adopted at the end of this session, should not be the end of the activity and say that this problem has been solved in this way. It should only be a beginning and an inspiration to all those politicians who are at the head of, above all, the republican authorities, this assembly, the government and all those who represent the state from the federal level, to work on it. First of all, to insist on applying Resolution 1244. When it comes to United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244, we all experienced it at one point as defeat or capitulation. Then we hoped to achieve more than the rights given to this resolution. We expected to outsmart that world community, that something more would be done than what was given to us on that occasion. We are now in a position to fight for the realization of Resolution 1244, to fight for the minimum of those rights given to us by that resolution. I would not repeat, we all know that these are rights to the return of the military and police to Kosovo and that the resolution clearly and unequivocally states that Kosovo is an integral part of Yugoslavia. When it comes to the fact that Resolution 1244 provides for a temporary solution to be found in Kosovo, the temporary solution is incompatible with the notion of elections. Because a temporary solution, temporary administration or administration could mean that the authorised representative could appoint those authorities of local authorities, provinces, etc., but that he himself appointed them, in order to sort out certain parent records by municipalities, and not select the authorities. The choice of the authorities means, in practice, that the will of the citizens is expressed in this way. It is very difficult after that to return it to an administrative or temporary solution. There's another question to ask - why is he in such a hurry? According to the understanding of us from the Soviet Union, at best, if everything were ideal, if Resolution 1244 were to be implemented as it says, if all the exiled Serbs returned to their hearths, if security were guaranteed, the conduct of the elections could only be expected in three to five years. Realistically, in ten years, one fair election could be held, I say, with these previous conditions being met, to guarantee, first and foremost, the safety of everyone. However, there is an impression, as if the world and Europe want to free themselves of this ballast and, in practice, by holding elections, that is, by accepting this temporary constitutional framework, to return this problem to us and to give some of our territory to the Shiptars. The people are asking a few questions, and these questions are in place. The first question is - who at this point exploits those natural treasures that Kosovo and Metohija are famous for? Who exploits those economic potentials and energy potentials that are also well-known to all of us? In the end, who's going to collect taxes and taxes tomorrow and who's going to have the funds? All these questions are addressed, above all, to the Serbian government, because it would have to all the forces to fight for this to happen within the institutions of the Republic. If that's what it says in Resolution 1244, that it has to be done in collaboration with federal authorities, I don't think it bothers anything at all and there shouldn't be any conflict of jurisdiction or even impatience here. Maybe that's what it's all about at some point. Special attention should be paid to the discussions of Kosovo and Metohija MPs, who were the most honest in their discussions and presented the most arguments. I think these two days, they've been mostly on the subject. Normally, the rest of us need to accept criticism if we haven't done it. The Serbian Unity Party believes that all state authorities, at a republican and federal level, need serious and decisive, but also reasonable and wise to lead national policy, to finally define Serbian national interests and to work on their permanent protection. I think we've stopped here a little bit, that we're all a little concerned with all these changes and that these national interests aren't being taken care of enough. I think that's the question where there shouldn't be a deal, where all the political forces in this country should agree, and then, when all this is in place, we deal with our interparty conflicts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8333	The word is made by MP Dragan Lazic. Since there are no more registered MPs, I will then give my word to the presidents of the parliamentary groups who did not exercise their right. The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8334	Mr. President, I have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure to report. First, one that happened when you weren't in the O.R. In the future, I'd like to ask you to step out of the O.R. and leave one of the vice presidents to replace you, that vice president meet at least two basic conditions so he can replace you successfully. The first is that he feels no hatred for the MPs of the SRS. The second is to understand what the messengers say. It happened, as Mr. Bozidar Vujic spoke, that the lady who replaced you did not understand. He spoke completely in the context of the subject, and she gave him two warnings. Then she even, in the end, took away his word, citing two reasons for taking away his words. One that doesn't talk about the subject, and one that, for God's sake, is out of time in about 24 seconds, as far as it's really been, which is no longer supposed to happen. I read the stenogram, Mr. Vujic spoke in the context of the topic, but that should be understood. Someone who doesn't have enough I.Q., don't let him replace you. I see you're a good judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8335	Mr. Nikolic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8336	Thank you very much. I guess I deserve it. The second violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President, told us when you entered after your break, that he would be entitled to two MPs and the president of the parliamentary group to declare the declaration. We had four registered speakers. Two of them gave up their speech because there were two of them and I now replacing the head of the parliamentary group. I asked for a word, and in the meantime, you're changing your statement and saying that you can only speak to the presidents of the parliamentary groups who haven't spent the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. We do have a document in front of us that needs to be said about a few sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8337	But you won't get a chance to do that, because you've spent your right to say the word, and you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure. I would ask you to leave the pay phone so that we can decide according to the Rules of Procedure what you objected to.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8338	I did, but also by the Rules of Procedure, to respond to what you just said.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8339	At the end of the session, the subject is very serious. The document is also serious, so I'd like to ask you not to do what you mentioned half an hour ago...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8340	That is why I am asking you to allow the presidents of the parliamentary groups, who want to briefly state the position of the parliamentary group in connection with this new document, without requiring MPs to speak about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8341	This is not an open debate and you know it very well. It's a procedure we agreed to respect and apply together. Please let us decide on your objection.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8342	We didn't agree anything, Mr. President. You said the presidents of the parliamentary groups would speak as well...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8343	That's not how we're gonna argue. I ask you to leave the pay phone, to decide on your objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8344	What objection?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8345	I guess you know what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8346	Do you know?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8347	Very good.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8348	I doubt you know. I've had two objections.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8349	Mr. Messenger, I warn you a second time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8350	Do not warn me when I speak to you with reason. I had two complaints about this. Whom you wish to plead, I ask nicely. Do you want to talk about the lady running over the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8351	Mr. Nikolic, I take your word and we will plead your objection.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8352	Mr. President, will I have the right to speak of the new text that we have received?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8353	I've taken your word, please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8354	I'm just asking you if you'll allow me to state on behalf of the parliamentary group the position of the parliamentary group on the new declaration...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8355	I'm setting a five-minute break. [[Continuing after the break.]] Just to let you know that due to the power outage, I guess the RTS students, we don't have a television transmission. What do we do? Please confirm the quorum. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. Here, there's a transmission. We just took a break. The word has been given by MP Dragan Lazic, followed by MP Borislav Pelevic. I still owe you one, I'll answer. So it's not according to the Rules of Procedure, or anything else, working group participants, representatives of parliamentary groups who participated and agreed on their own behalf, cannot decide on behalf of others, to withdraw their own parliamentary applications and to speak as I have said. This was not an agreement, nor could the Rules of Procedure be written, but they declared themselves to do so, so they did so. Of course, none of them would have been given a word, if they had used it rightly, they would have gotten another one eventually. The word has been given by MP Dragan Lazic, followed by MP Borislav Pelevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8356	Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the course of these two days, it was mostly said what was to be said. There was a lot in the description. I would touch on something that was not said, which is that there is another side in Kosovo and Metohija, it is the Albanian side. How they imagine all this happening in Kosovo and Metohija. In fact, there is division in the Albanian political establishment in Kosovo and Metohija. They're only in one universe, and that unity comes down to a referendum. A referendum, of course, for the secession of Kosovo. There are other options, and first of all, one of the options that the South African lawyer has put forward at the time, and otherwise by the UN war crimes prosecutor Richard Goldstone. According to an independent commission on Kosovo, which he is headed, provided or predicted Kosovo with some kind of conditional independence. This conditional independence would follow a period of five years, when they clearly articulate and profile everything in the world of recognised democratic definitions. At that time, a referendum and an independent state would be possible for Kosovo. Normally, this variant of Mr. Goldstone was rejected as unrealistic and irrational by the president of the world organisation Kofi Annan, but in any case it's worth it. The second option, which is worth attention and is widely extended in Kosovo and Metohija, is the publicist and politician Veton Suroi's option, which advocates a three-fold Taiwanese scenario. With the three-time Taiwanese scenario, it is best to show that Serbia, Montenegro and Kosovo's status in the secretary of the state, the future, is fully independent, with some sovereignty in those countries, but could not be independent. I've done a lot of self-expression. They couldn't be independent, but that's why they could make their sovereignty come true. It means they can exercise power on their own territory. The formula was named Taiwanese script, and precisely because of what is happening in Taiwan. In Taiwan, it is on the scene of a variant where Taiwan can exercise sovereignty on its territory, but China does not approve of Taipeh's independence until today. So, as a member of the UN and the SB, it can always veto and therefore the Taiwanese variant cannot pass the world. That can serve us as a science in this whole story. It can serve as a science and that some things are extremely long-term. I'm always starting to assume that this is happening in Cyprus. In Cyprus, there is a situation like that in Serbia. Namely, there are these two entities, one is the Cypriot, and one is the Turkish Cypriot northern republic, the other is an entity with the Turkish ethnic community. Unfortunately, in Serbia, we have the same variant, where one part of Serbia's territory is with the majority, i.e. essentially Serbian life, the other is Kosovo and Metohija with the majority Albanian life, which are the two entities. Of course, I agree with Mr. Veljkovic, who quite rightly said yesterday, starting with the same circumstances that I'm starting with, that this is a hard job and I don't think this one generation is going to be able to solve. That's for a simple reason, because it's too much blood in the Balkans, so one generation can do it, even if this one can solve it. This best shows exactly the Cypriot problem, which lasts exactly 25 or 26 full years. So we can't expect anything overnight to happen. It doesn't mean that we can't create any preconditions for future generations, the younger generations that need to get one good basis, that they can do the job that unfortunately was left to us as left behind, completely ungrateful. I've heard some words on the subject of internationalization and accusations on the side when it comes to DOS. Unfortunately, I have to reassure all those who mention this internationalization that DOS has found that internationalization. Therefore, there is no speech or saying that it should now impute the DOS or the Democratic option of Serbia, however you wish, that it is guilty of internationalisation. Exactly everything is known who led to this position, and it is highly cynical of my previous speaker that the SPS parliamentary group has asked to discuss Kosovo at all. I think they've said enough for these twelve years, those twelve years of Serbia's sunflower, where we all know what position we're in, and how all of this could have been solved. If the framework constitution for the temporary administration in Kosovo is looked at and compared to the Rambuje conference, it is best to see that it is about the same position, for all of what the Constitutional Framework for the Temporary Self-Government in Kosovo foresees. That was already scheduled in Rambuje. Of course, that document in Rambuje was not accepted. It is not quite justified, but one fact that was mentioned yesterday for this speaker is forgotten, which is that the agreement in Rambuje is nevertheless fully incorporated in Resolution 1244. What's very important is our state administration, our former president and its environment have accepted it. They accepted the signature on the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin document, to accept it later through Resolution 1244 of the SB and to use the Kumanovski Agreement, where it was clear, that all these documents were fully clear and that they were in favour of state damage. Why it's done, why it's capitulanic, it needs someone to answer. I suppose there are no ideal justices in politics, there's only a real usefulness and we should always stick to it. Unfortunately, if the usefulness of our predecessors was to lose some of Serbia's territory in Croatia, if the usefulness was to lose more than 20% of Serbia's territory in Bosnia and Herzegovina, if the usefulness was to lose 11,000 square miles of Kosovo and Metohija, then this political option should indeed be welcomed. Not that they have achieved usefulness, but I can see from that usefulness that some MPs are laughing. As far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, there is a Serbian option that is much different from what is happening on the Albanian side, which is quite normal, it is our country, our territorial integrity. Options for cantonization appear, options for two entities appear, which has been misread in the last days in our public. There's another option that I'd like to confirm. When it comes to cantonisation, sometimes in a joke, and sometimes in reality I say that cantonisation in Kosovo and Metohija has already been done, in the way that the international community has determined through KFOR, which is cantonisation across the security zone. When you look at any security zone, you can't go any way you want, but if you're going from England to the German zone, then you're being taken over by the German Corps. It's this kind of cantonisation, and I think it would cause a lot of damage to current relations in the political and territorial sense of Serbia, so I wouldn't take that part seriously. When it comes to the two entities' options, on the principle of ethnic and historical values, this could be acceptable. Unfortunately, it's more pessimistic than serious, for I don't know what reasons, because there's no territorial demarcation there. This should be seen through one political vision, a strict political vision of demarcation. What I apologize for, I will end right now, at the very end of the day, is an option advocated by President Kostunica, which is very close to the Democratic Party of Serbia's option, which is to find a moduso which would mean autonomy in the context of autonomy in this situation. It's the only thing that's certain, and it's the only thing that can happen in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8357	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answer for a word? Mr. Pelevic, that's right, then Mr.... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8358	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, today we have received a new document that is likely to be adopted by the Assembly and called the National Assembly Declaration on the State of Kosovo and Metohija. It is good that this document will be adopted. In any case, it's better than the government's conclusion, and it's especially better than the Federal Foreign Ministry's information we've received in support of the government's conclusion. Information on the constitutional framework of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a document that is truly condescending and that is quite courteous in relation to the international community. The information says that the Constitutional Framework no doubt gives elements of statehood to Kosovo and Metohija to a certain extent, but therefore says -- statehood elements do not necessarily prejudge the state and international legal status of a territory. The constitutional framework is then said not to mention explicitly that Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia, but it is justified because Resolution 1244 allegedly stands behind it. The constitutional framework is certainly not satisfactory, but in reality any serious opposition would go to harm both the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. If we adopt that, if we agree with the Constitutional Framework, then there is no more Kosovo and Metohija, then there is no more Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. That is why it should be approached, according to the Information, co-operation with UNMIK and the OSCE, on voter registration and election preparations. I don't think we can agree on that at all, but it's the same federal government whose one minister, the justice minister, submitted a bill on co-operation with The Hague tribunal, first Carly Del Ponte for approval, then to the federal MPs in the Federal Assembly. How can Serbs go to the polls when no single Serb has returned since KFOR and UNMIK's arrival in Kosovo and Metohija. That is why KFOR, after arriving at Cosmet, managed to return tens of thousands in a few weeks, hundreds of thousands of Albanians who have fled, and have escaped precisely because of their bombing. No Serb has been returned thanks to KFOR. What's so much to talk about in the media about the war crimes of our officers and our soldiers in Kosovo and Metohija? What is not to say about the crimes that Serbs have suffered in Kosovo and Metohija before KFOR arrived, and after KFOR arrived in Kosovo and Metohija? Why does no one talk about more than 1,200 Serbs killed after KFOR arrived, why does no one talk about 1,046 Serbs abducted after KFOR arrived and more than 250 Serbs abducted before KFOR arrived in Kosovo and Metohija? Why does no one write about Serbs living in Gorazdevec as in the ghetto and in many other enclaves that represent actually the ghettos in which they live, in which they actually live. Crimes against Serbs have been committed continuously for dozens of years, but no one writes about the crime against Djordje Martinovic in 1985, and the crime is just an example of how the state can blame Albanians on Serbs. The crime is an example of a state conspiracy against Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, with the help of Broz generals. It turns out in the end that Djordje Martinovic himself was injured. It's a shame, and we haven't talked about it yet. This was discussed several times by the Federal Assembly and the Serbian Assembly during the communist period, but we do not discuss it. We talk about a lot of other things, but not that. After KFOR arrived after the bombing, Djordje Martinovic lived in a village called Citluk near Kruševac, in a small room, but with 20 members of his family. Three sons and two grandchildren went to fight for Kosovo and Metohija, and he overcame, died of torment and longing for them to return. When they came back, he was already dead, buried. Why is no one talking about six young men who were killed in the Serbian cafe "Panda" in Peca in 1998, but that's why we're talking about invented coolants in Kokin's Brod, and they're invented by some kind of Natasa Kandic from the humanitarian fund and some humanitarian law fund. Why doesn't he call himself responsible? Why divers are sent, which is why divers are not sent to Batlavsko Lake in Kosovo and Metohija, to Lake Gracanic, which is why they are not sent to Voluyak Lake divers, which is why they are not sent to examine the White Dream trough, where many Serbs have been killed by Shipara. But we're talking about coolers, we're talking about Serbs, police officers and soldiers who committed war crimes in Kosovo and Metohija. Who today wants to make peacemaker and hero of the so-called Captain Lashi, who died in conflict with our men, with our army, in the uniform of the enemy army, the Liberation Army of Preshevo, the Bear and the Bujanovac. Who is talking about why the newspapers write so much about what kind of peacemaker was fighting us, who fought in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia against Serbs, Kosovo and Metohija as a KLA member. This framework is indeed the constitution of Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately, and it is good that today this declaration will be adopted, although we will not vote for this declaration, because we believe it is too mild, but it is good to call it a declaration. That's what we're looking for. It is good to say -- the document The Constitutional Framework for Temporary Self-Government is not accepted, but it is not good to say -- it is proposed to the UN Secretary-General to co-operate with representatives of Albanians, Serbs and other approaches to the revision. Why is it proposed? We should demand, this is our right under Resolution 1244, which is not good for us, but we have to catch up with it because it is the only document we have to catch to keep Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia and Yugoslavia. Why doesn't it say in this declaration that we should insist on returning part of our army and police, which is determined by Resolution 1244? Only if they return will we be able to obtain at least some conditions for our people to return to Kosovo and Metohija. We have proposed to the Serbian Parliament and Government the declaration of the Serbian Unity Party, which is not and will not be accepted, but I will read it: 1. The constitutional framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo and Metohija is not accepted because it is contrary to Resolution 1244 because it creates an ethnically pure Albanian state in Serbia, not even providing minimum conditions for the survival of Serbs in Cosmet living there, as well as minimum conditions for the return of exiled Serbs and other non-Albanian communities to Cosmet. This document annuls the basic human right of Serbs from Cosmet to live where they were born. 2. All the political factors of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia, all political parties must make a common strategy for resolving the Kosovo problem. The unity of all political actors must not only be on paper, but a joint political body must be made up of experts from all parties. The political body would deal only with the problem of the Kosovo crisis. Meetings of a joint political body with representatives of authorities in Yugoslavia and Serbia and representatives of Serbs from Cosmet would take place in Kosovo's Mitrovica or Gracanica as symbols of the survival and remnant of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. 3. The sooner we form a strong Serbian lobby in the United States, composed of our people living abroad, especially in America. The job of the lobby should be to spread the truth about Cosmet, the United Nations, the U.S. Congress, the State Department and Dr. Lobby would put additional pressure on Congress, the Security Council, the NATO Pact and other international organisations. 4. Regularly submit reports of a systematic violation of the human rights of Serbs and other non-Albanians in Cosmet, the Security Council, NATO Pact headquarters, the European Commission and other international actors. 5. That the government of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia provide full support for Serbs who remained in Kosovo, to visit them, to be constantly present at Cosmet, to let them know that the state did not abandon them: (a) an urgent agreement between the government and KFOR on strengthening the security of Serbs who remained in Cosmet; (b) permanent humanitarian aid to Serbs in enclaves whose food reserves are at an end. Six. That the state authorities everywhere and in every place insist on applying Resolution 1244, the return of the troops of Yugoslavia and the police designated by Resolution 1244, as well as the security of conditions for the return of the exiled Serbs and other non-Albanians, because it is the dream of every exiled population of Cosmeta. Seven. Until the final return to Cosmet, the governments of the SRJ and Serbia must provide conditions for the lives of the refugees and exiled who are worthy of man: a) hire the unemployed until the return to Cosmet on jobs they have already worked on, as well as ensure regular payment of guaranteed salaries for all exiles who do not receive salaries; (b) resolve the accommodations exiled in co-operation with the UNHCR until their return to Cosmet; (v) find a solution for the compensation of the exiled, since all their assets remained on Cosmet; (d) provide benefits for the payment of electricity and communals to refugees from Cosmet. 8. To put pressure on UNMIK, KFOR, UNHCR and other international organisations to shed light on the fate of 1,300 abducted Serbs, who have been kidnapped or kidnapped by Cypriot terrorists. Nine. Not to release another single Albanian who maintains his sentence in our prisons until the kidnapped and arrested Serbs and other non-Albanians are found at Cosmet in camps and prisons. Ten. To take action against those who invent refrigerators full of Albanian corpses at the bottom of Lake Kokin Brod and to stop accusing our soldiers and police officers who defended the state of Cosmet in 1998 and 1999. 11. The University of Pristina is a significant national institution, a temple of science in Cosmet, and the government must find a solution to the teaching at the university's universities normally, where possible, until the University of Pristina returns. This university must remain part of Serbia's overall higher education system. 12. He strongly opposes the announced elections in Cosmet, scheduled for 17 November this year. They choose to organize only when all the exiles return to Cosmet and they are provided with a normal and safe life. Going to the elections under the current conditions would mean legalising the creation of an Albanian state in Serbia, completely independent of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. It would repeat the same situation as with the local elections in Cosmet. Finally, the conclusion -- from the above, it follows that the federal and the Republic government must urgently form a team of experts who, in broad consultation with all relevant national institutions, will develop a national programme of Serbia, with clear national interests, respecting the interests of all Serbian citizens, regardless of national, religious and any other belongings. The Serbian national interest must already be clearly defined in Serbia once, as all other countries in the neighbourhood and throughout Europe have long brought their own national programme.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8359	Mr. Ivkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8360	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as I went out for this pay phone, I looked at only 150 of us in the O.R. Of the 250 MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 150 are present. So, 100 MPs, two-fifths of the assembly's MPs, estimated that at the moment Kosovo and Metohija are being discussed, a couple of excelled national issues, they will not be in this room. I think that everyone who is not here, and also the heads of Parliament's groups, should take that into account, because Kosovo and Metohija are not only a national issue, but is also a natural issue, a question of the standards of citizens and the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We have reached an agreement on the declaration and the Socialist Party of Serbia will vote for this declaration. We believe that we have found the measure, the measure that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and all the state authorities leave room to act by relying on that basic document, which is Security Council Resolution 1244, which is adopted by those who now decide and who have decided for ten years on these premises and very often this people and how they are harassing, and who have to be put in a position to have a legal act, a clean legal act which they have adopted, consistently and in full application. It is very important that all MPs present in this assembly vote for this document. It is very important that we understand and understand that, nevertheless, the international community, regardless of the strength it holds, of the growing and greater pressure in the essence of this nation and of this country, understands and understands that there are political parties here that have different political options on many things in life and even when such a national matter is at stake and when it comes to the country's primary development, which is artificially blocked by the creation of problems in Kosovo and Metohija, can still reach a common agreement, that minimum to define, that there are no political problems between them, the calculation and that, in essence, the united and citizens of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. This declaration doesn't carry a fight with the international community. This declaration, which I hope you will adopt unanimously, essentially carries a message: we are no longer asking you for anything else, but to respect the document that you have brought, but not to respect Article 10, and to forget Article 9. Apply all members, from the first to the first, how many of them there are. Apply them consistently and comprehensively. There's nothing more and more to ask of you. We'll have a measure, we'll have an understanding. We accept the registration of possible voters, but expect a comprehensive programme to be developed to meet Article 9 at the same time. Resolutions, which is the return of exiled and refugees to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and the implementation of the programme, are expected. Then we can discuss Article 10, then we can discuss the elections, then we can discuss the elements of self-government and essential autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija within the limits of the sovereign state. It is a message, but also a requirement for the government of the Republic of Serbia to continue and further increase activities, especially in the areas of education, health, humanitarian activities in Kosovo and Metohija. It is also a requirement for all competent state authorities to continue and strengthen co-operation with both the OSCE and UNMIK, and with KFOR, above all to consistently and fully implement Resolution 1244. And that's where all the full value gets one long-standing endeavor of this people to bring everyone in this world back to legal currents. One force of the former U.S. administration, and we see a significant difference between the former and the new US administration, one impertinence, cowboyism, which led to an illegal, dirty war, we return to the legal flows of the UN and we demand, and we expect, and we expect, normally, that the UN, these legal flows, its legal flows, its body of the Security Council and its decisions, through its authorities in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, through its special representative, through its security authorities, implement you consistently and comprehensively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8361	There is a word from the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8362	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 137. For two days now, the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been having a debate on the proposal for a conclusion, delivered to us by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and before the government is set before the MPs, and now present here, Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. We have today, and you solved it in the meantime, in the afternoon part of the debate, the declaration, not the conclusions. I ask you, according to the Rules of Procedure and under Rule 137 of your Government, and us MPs, whether or not she gave up and withdrew her conclusions, as in the meantime you came to the vote on the declaration. And you did not give the opportunity, even though you had entered the hall, with an hour-and-a-half delay, to be able to speak to two MPs and a representative of the parliamentary group, you did not allow - contrary to the Rules of Procedure, you took away the word of the SRS deputy president, Mr Tomislav Nikolic - to speak about what is now a declaration, so I ask you - whether the government has drawn conclusions and has given you consent to this text of the declaration, which you served us an hour ago, afraid to hear a few sentences from the representatives of the SRS, or the deputy president of the Parliament group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. What we do and how we act is only in the interest of those citizens who sent us here or in the interest of the Serbian people, and above all when it comes to such a matter, in the interest of the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. You should know that we, as MPs of the SRS, wanted to point out -- what's negative about this text of the declaration, which you gave us an hour ago, and you -- by breaking all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, took away the word to Mr Tomislav Nikolic, and by who knows which way, whether it's being transferred or not now, you're playing with your DOS-vision cat and mouse -- showing that you've fallen all the masks, that you're not any Democratic opposition to Serbia, but one of the worst possible powers that are now in Serbia, in the SRJ, unfortunately the entire Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8363	The word has a People's MP, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8364	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this item of the agenda has come from our intention that parliament be a place where reasonable and responsible decisions are made. I reminded you that three weeks ago we discussed Kosovo and Metohija and that we have made a very clear, concrete position on the constitutional framework for the temporary self-government of Kosovo and Metohija. Meanwhile, the framework has been formally adopted and we are today in a position to, as a parliament, mean the most responsible state institution, reacting to what happened in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. In this reaction, we must take care of the consequences, and we must find the outcome of our last session, where we discussed Kosovo and Metohija. So we have to have a result that would be consistent with our intentions and with the interests of society and state. In the declaration adopted at the meeting, which preceded the afternoon session, we have shown two basic intentions - that at any time we insist on the rights arising from the Security Council Resolution 1244 and that we fully respond to the obligations that follow those rights, which, as a society, bind us in accordance with that resolution. All that has been said in the previous two days should be interpreted as an honest intention and the insistence of the MPs that the Kosovo and Metohija problem, which is the consequence of heritage and which is sufficiently said, should be dealt with in the most concrete way, regardless of what was the subject of the debate. So I expect the MPs of the Republic Parliament to adopt this declaration. I would like to say that we have maximum respect for the opposition's views, that it is not only the efforts of representatives of the parliamentary groups, which are in itself inappropriate forms of declaration and context in which we want to treat the problem of the constitution for the temporary self-government of Kosovo and Metohija. We expect this declaration to have a different epilogue than our last resolution, because certainly the Republic of Serbia (and the SRJ), on the basis of this declaration, will be able to respond to our basic intentions - to achieve the right resulting from Resolution 1244 for the citizens of Kosovo and the Metohija of Serbian and non-Albanian nationality and to fully respond to the obligations that we, as parliament, place before the government. We ask DOS MPs to support this declaration and we expect the MPs of the other parliamentary groups to, in accordance with the interests of society, recognise in this declaration our sincere intention to resolve this problem without party disputes and without bringing them down to party programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8365	I conclude a unique search and give my word to the proposing representative, Mr Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8366	fellow Members of the People, on behalf of the Proposer, I believe that in this text the declaration contains the essence of the proposal made by the Government. I would only have one small proposal for a slight cross-over of the first and second points, if you have a text in front of you -- so the first point would read in this proposal -- it does not accept the document Constitutional Framework for Temporary Self-Government, because it prejudges a final solution to the damage to the state interests of SR Yugoslavia and Serbia, Serbs and the rest of the non-Albanian population in the province -- and now follows the supplement: thus significantly exceeding the powers of UN Resolution 1244. And the last sentence would be (so, that would be the end of this point one), that last sentence would be added to point two, and it would read - the constitutional framework offered for temporary self-government does not guarantee institutional protection of freedom and the rights of non-Albanian ethnic communities, so it would be clear that in the first point it is merely claimed that the constitutional framework offered is contrary to the resolution, i.e. now overpowers, and the issue of protection would be put into this second point, where a proposal is then put in place to create conditions that all ethnic communities, national communities, participate equally in life in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-31-0.u8367	So you have already been informed that during the break the Working Group, which followed the course of the debate, discussed the proposals and suggestions presented in the debate on the proposal for a conclusion and that, based on these proposals and suggestions, it prepared the text of the proposal for a declaration that was presented to you, we will only have a little problem with this intervention that we have heard, which we will install in the definitive text, and I will read the declaration in full. Let me get to know the public first, because you are already familiar with the text of the declaration. Declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the state of Kosovo and Metohija, the obligations of the international community and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to discuss the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, the document - the Constitutional Framework for Temporary Self-Government - and the obligation of the representatives of the international community and government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia established the following positions: First, the document - the Constitutional Framework for Temporary Self-Government - as it prejudges a final solution to the damage to the state interest of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Serbia, Serbs and other non-Albanian population in the province, which significantly exceeds the authority of Resolution 1244 of the Security Council of the United Nations. That document does not guarantee institutional protection of the freedoms and rights of non-Albanian ethnic communities. (Dott 2 has a supplement in the end, as second attitude. We'll appreciate what we've heard, so it'll combine in a definite text. ) Secondly, it is proposed that the UN Special Representative, in co-operation with representatives of Albanians, Serbs and all other national communities in Kosovo and Metohija, join the revision of this document in order to ensure broad autonomy for Kosovo and the Metohija by adopting effective guarantees and reliable institutional guarantee of the rights and freedom of Serbs and other national communities, as required by United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244. Third, it is believed that holding elections that would involve all national communities is their common interest and confirms that KFOR and UNMIK have so far failed to provide minimum conditions that allow Serbs and the rest of the non-Albanian population to go to such elections. It is required by the civilian and military authorities of the United Nations to ensure, without delay, a comprehensive return programme for all exiles and refugees and approaches to its realization, as well as to provide conditions for the safe life of all citizens and the full achievement of all human rights, in accordance with the obligations of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244. Fourthly, it is considered necessary to co-operate with UNMIK and the OSCE on voter registration, including all persons displaced from Kosovo and Metohija, with participation in the registration process in no way prejudges the final decision to leave or not to go to the elections. The decision will depend solely on whether the legal and security conditions are met, as well as the return within the meaning of point 3 of this declaration. Fifthly, the authorities and representatives of the international community are required to strictly respect and fully implement United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 and in particular the provisions set out in point 9 of that document. The competent state authorities should continue to co-operate with UNMIK and the OSCE on the consistent and comprehensive implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1244 and this declaration. The sixth, it undertakes the government of the Republic of Serbia to lead a policy of strengthening Kosovo and Metohija's ties with other parts of Serbia in order to preserve the sovereignty and integrity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in line with the said resolution. In particular, it points to the activities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the fields of education, health, traffic, trade, finance, culture and state administration and is required by the Government to submit regular monthly reports to the relevant assembly committees. Seven, it insists that UNMIK, KFOR and other international community bodies brighten the fate of all kidnapped and missing in the shortest time since KFOR's arrival in Kosovo and Metohija and their families provide true information. Eight, an agreement with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on the status of UNMIK and KFOR mission in Kosovo and Metohija is required. Nine, the UN Security Council is required to assess the consent of the document professionally and impartially -- the constitutional framework for temporary self-government with UN Security Council Resolution 1244. "I ask the Members of Parliament to declare the proposal for this declaration by a vote. For 160, there were no 11 abstentions, 9 out of 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, the obligations of the international community and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I am concluding the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
