ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u2994	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I open the session, I would like to inform you that the session of the Committee on Finance will be held in the session session of the National Assembly in the second floor. I am opening the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I call on you to pay our respects to Rajica Petrovic, a member of Serbia's MUP in Kragujevac, who, honorably doing his duty, has lost his life. Praise him. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 136 MPs. To determine the quorum, please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the absence of the following MPs has been granted: Alen Selimovic, Bosko Ristic, Milan Milosavljevic, Goran Ciric, Aleksandr Krstic, Slobodan Adžic, Branislav Pomoriško, Predrag Stojanović, Ljubo Slavkovic, Dragan Milentijevic, Milos Radivojčević, Dusan Budišin, Dusan Cvetković, Jovan Todorovic, Aleksandr Stefanovic, Dragor Hiber. In the morning work, the absence of Nedi Arneric, Leili Ruždić - Trifunović, Petru Misic, Momcilu Trajkovic, Sanko Kovacevic and Bratislav Đuric announced a delay. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We're moving on to the agenda. In the context of this session that has been delivered to you, the draft agenda for the session has been contained. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on a proposal to supplement the proposed agenda of the session. We've received one proposal to supplement the session's agenda. National MP Zeljo Huric suggested that the agenda be complemented by a new point that reads - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts concerning the allegations of MP Vojislav Seselj on the intention of Muslim fundamentalists to take Serbian villages at the administrative border between Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 14 February 2001. Does MP Zeljo Huric want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u2995	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, honourable fellow MPs and members of the government, as you have heard, I really applied on 14 February for the establishment of a committee of inquiry on Mr. Vojislav Seselj's statement at the Second Extraordinary Session, January 25th. That statement, as you got in the material is full of insinuation and inaccuracy, and of course, based on the context of the whole statement, the Sandzak citizens were quite excited and asked for one such reaction. This Sandzak has been in textbooks since the first grade of primary school, and if you are not informed, look for textbooks and you will know where it is. So, gentlemen, as I said, it contained a lot of falseness, the whole context of the statement was full of false. However, at the last minute, after consulting the president of the assembly and the head of the DOS parliamentary group, I decided to withdraw this proposal. The reason is, to say, some of the more important interests, but I hope there will be a time when we can discuss this. I expect, gentlemen, not only from Mr Vojislav Seselj, but also from others who sometimes knew something similar to that area, that they would think carefully in the future and not make such statements lightly. These citizens deserve it, they don't do anything to anyone. It is precisely our interest to respect and respect equally all citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u2996	I thank the People's MP, Mr. Huric. I find his proposal to supplement the agenda has been withdrawn. We have a proposal to conduct a joint principle search. National MP Dusan Proroković, based on Articles 84 and 133. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on drafts of the law at paragraphs 5, with the 11th point of the agenda. The proposal is therefore to bring together a debate on: a proposal for a corporate tax law, a proposal for a law on property taxes, a proposal for a law on taxes on use, the conduct of goods, a proposal for a tax on financial transactions, a draft law amending the Law on housing, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government and a proposal for a law on income tax. Does MP Dusan Prophetovic want a word? If he doesn't want to, I'll put him to the vote... (Božidar Vucurovic, from the post: We have another proposal. ) as there is no debate on the proposal for unification, and the second proposal is submitted by the Rules of Procedure within a specified time limit, which is 72 hours before the beginning of the session. If you agree, we should discuss this at another session, that we should now really conclude a decision on Parliamentarian Dusan Prophetovic's proposal. I would like to put to the vote the motion of MP Dusan Prophetovic to conduct a joint principled search on the drafts of the law according to points 5. - The 11th proposed agenda. For 115, against 41, the abstentions were not voted by three, and a total of 159 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u2997	Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u2998	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u2999	Mr. President, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure again. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure is it foreseen that the debate on more points of the agenda can be brought together. Then it is pointless to set six points, if a single debate is to be held. There's no such thing as modern parliament practice. It exists here, where the tyranny of the dossal majority is carried out. Why don't you call off the full debate? Why this debate? Cancel the parliament. Six points of the agenda, a single debate, will be held again for just five minutes, and then you attack the opposition to obstruct. The opposition you prevented from being even an opposition in the true sense of the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3000	I cannot plead, since a member of the Rules of Procedure is not listed again, for which a violation of... (Vojislav Seselj: Please specify a member by which you can do so. )......................................................................................................... So we can continue with the determination. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3001	Please, you can't specify a member to do what you're doing. You are bound by parliamentary rights, and you do not have a legal foothold for that restriction either in the Constitution, nor in the law, nor in the Rules of Procedure. You're preventing MPs from talking about all the points of the agenda by making them talk about six points just once. Is that a rule of law? Yes, it is. You don't have a foothold in the Rules of Procedure to do that restriction. You keep doing it. Now you're asking me to tell you by which member. There's no member. The bottom line is that you cannot limit the rights of the MPs of the people, if that restriction is not envisaged in advance. No right can be denied to the MP unless the possibility of denial is provided for in advance. Unfortunately, the possibility of denying the duration of participation in the debate is foreseen, but in this way the implementation of restrictive measures on parliamentary rights is not envisaged anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3002	I have tried to avoid what you are objecting to, which is a constant challenge to your proposals, although always justified by the position I am in, which is my duty in the Rules of Procedure. Well, since you haven't already listed it, then may I remind you that what you claim doesn't write anywhere, it says in the attitude of Article 3. I won't read it, but you can do it yourself. As in Article 133(2), if there is a need, I will read you what the Rules of Procedure says. These are old provisions, they are not novounte, they are provisions in which you participated when this basic text of the Rules of Procedure was brought. It's just like that. There's really nothing else I can tell you, but to ask if you're satisfied with the answer, or if you're satisfied with the fact that what you're saying isn't written, it says in article 84 and article 133. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3003	You're still insisting on something that's pointless. Uniting discussions by the spirit of the Rules of Procedure can do the most for two points of the agenda. You're uniting six key points. For example, the Judicial Committee submits a proposal for more appointments of judges or public prosecutors, well, it can logically propose a single debate on all, because one will talk eventually about one, the other, or none of them will. You're asking for six key laws to conduct a single debate and of course I know what's next. Now your proposal follows that everyone can only speak once and for five minutes at a time. It's the destruction of the spirit of the Rules of Procedure. Connect two points of the agenda where there is a logical connection. But you're only connecting incompatible to formalize the debate, so that there won't be any fundamental debates.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3004	Then I still have to end this by just reading what I said to write, which is, "The National Assembly can decide to conduct a joint principled search of several laws that are on the agenda. "Two isn't anymore. You claim he can't do more than two. Two laws are no longer said. So, we're not talking about the ghost here, we're talking about the letter here, and you as a former law school professor know what that means. This is the Rules of Procedure. [[Laughter]] Let's decide this and move on. So we don't talk about the spirit, it explicitly says what the National Assembly can do in the Rules of Procedure. Since you are not satisfied, I assume you're asking the Assembly to plead on this matter. I ask the MPs to plead on Mr Seselj's claim that by joining the debate, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been violated. For 18, against 121 abstentions 14, not voting 8, a total of 161 MPs were present. I find the objection not accepted. We can continue to determine the agenda of the session in general. I'm putting on a vote on the draft agenda in general. For 157, no one against, no one abstention, has voted four, a total of 161 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - THE PROPOSAL OF THE FINISHING OF THE FUNCTION, THE DISCUSSION AND THE CHOICE OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE FUNCTIONS For this item of the agenda, you have received proposals from the Committee for Justice and Administration, and this is: 1. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the court's office to judges of general jurisdiction and economic courts, 2. Proposal for a decision on discharge from the Judge of the District Court in Valjevo, 3. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the function of the public prosecutor's office, 4. Proposal for a decision on discharge from the post of deputy district attorney in Kragujevac and 5. A motion for a decision to dismiss the post of deputy district attorney at the Fourth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. In addition, you have received a proposal to amend and supplement the motion for a decision to suspend the Judgeship of Judges of General Jurisdiction and Commercial Courts and a proposal to supplement the motion for a decision on the termination of the functions of the Public Prosecutor's Office, submitted by the Court of Justice and Administration. You have also received the amendment of MP Milos Nesovic to the motion for a decision to suspend the court's office to judges of general jurisdiction and economic courts, which in written form contests paragraph 9. It's a proposal for that decision. You also made proposals for decisions made by V.D. The Republic's Public Prosecutor, and that's: 1. Proposal for a decision on the selection of district attorneys, 2. Proposal for a decision on the election of deputy district attorney in Belgrade, 3. Proposal for a decision on the selection of municipal public prosecutors, and 4. Proposal for a decision to elect a deputy municipal public prosecutor in the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Management on the examination of the proposal for decisions taken by V.D. The Republic Public Prosecutor. I propose that all proposals for decisions on the termination of functions, the resolution and the choice of judicial officers be subject to a single search, and that the National Assembly be particularly clear on each proposal. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 141 against 18, the abstentioned were not voted on by 12, a total of 171 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. In accordance with Article 153 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single review of the motions for decisions on the termination of functions, resolution and selection of judicial holders. Do the proposer's representatives want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3005	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a number of motions for resolution from judicial functions, which fall under normal procedure of dispensation from judicial functions for going to regular retirement or disability pensions. These are cases called the termination of the judicial post due to the loss of ability to work. It's not about anything too serious. In front of you, the motion of the Republic Public Prosecutor to appoint a prosecutor's office, at which the Committee on Justice and Administration gave its consent. I thought this proposal deserved a certain explanation for two things. First of all, this number of retirements suddenly have because for a very long time this National Assembly, in its previous meeting, has not resolved because of retirement, although the holders of the judicial functions have met the conditions for it, so today we will have debate and decision-making and proposals for the retirement of judges who have met the conditions for retirement far away in 1997. Secondly, in a number of cases, the Committee on Justice and Administration has arrived at the request of judges whose retirement was proposed to extend their working relationship for another two years in accordance with the Labour Relations Act. The Justice Committee and the National Assembly are not responsible for this. Only the head of the judicial institution in which they work is responsible. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the case which is the subject of a written letter from one of the MPs. I'm not sure that an amendment to the decision of this species is possible. He refers to a proposal to dismiss Serbia's Supreme Court Judge, Mr Dragomir Lelovec, for his retirement. The proposal was sent to the Justice Committee by the Supreme Court of Serbia, as Mr. Lelovac was born in 1935 and turned 65 in 2000, so he retired by law. Mr Dragomir Lelovac also addressed the Supreme Court and the Justice Committee with claims he was not born in 1935, but in 1937. The Justice Committee, of course, was not authorized to establish such a fact, and had before it a final document in the debate a judicial and final solution of the Justice Ministry, which was adopted in 1998, in a procedure in which Judge Dragomir Lelovac asked for his year of birth from 1935 to 1937. The then minister of justice rejected his request because all the evidence was against it, so he couldn't respect it. Therefore, the Justice Committee could not respect this request. Finally, the Justice and Administration Committee also discussed a proposal by the Republic Public Prosecutor for the appointment of prosecutors to the district prosecutors' offices in Belgrade, Negotina and Pozarevc and municipal public prosecutors in the First, Second and Third Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, as well as several deputy public prosecutors. The Justice and Administration Committee found that these proposals were made after, by law, a public competition procedure and that all proposed candidates met all the conditions prescribed by law and did not find any other reason why they would be against the proposed candidates, so it proposed that these proposals be adopted as they say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3006	Does the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3007	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a very interesting personnel policy that DOS is leading in courts, a negative personnel policy. The DOS promised in a pre-election campaign that it would fight for the judges and public prosecutors to be elected the best, most professional, most qualified, most unsuspecting cadres etc. In practice, everything happens the other way around. In practice, DOS proposes the worst. We've seen about Leprechaun Karamarkovic. The worst you've chosen for the President of the Supreme Court, and in the first exam, the Supreme Court has already failed, in a test of respect for the Constitution and the law. Now you're suggesting the same thing. You're proposing to the district attorney in Pogorevec, for example, a certain Dimitar Krstev. Directly from JUL, immediately to DOS. Here he is, in front of the Faculty of the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevec, proposing that Professor Mirjana Markovic be elected wife of the decade. As this man treated JUL, he now treats you, and you are the first catfish to be caught on your hook immediately, for you are not better in your ranks. (He's a voice from the O.R.: He's a professional. He's very professional, you can tell. Like V.D. The prosecutor dealt with party policy in the worst possible way, and now it serves you the same way. It's your personnel policy. And last time you chose the same, and you choose the ones most corrupt. You chose Vojko Simic as the president of the First or Second Municipal Court in Belgrade, and he is involved in major malfeasance over the import of Mercedes. Mercedes were imported through the Mercedes representation in Belgrade, were co-operated together by Mayer, the director of the representation and a certain Slobodan Sarenac, director of Inexa, who has actions in the office, at the firm in Belgrade. 200 vehicles have been imported and are customs dutyed as medicine and pharmaceutical material. They sold 45, and when the affair broke out, everything else had to go back. Then, they sold, as the highest quality, Mercedes that lacked equipment worth 18,5 thousand marks, had many hidden faults and were destined as bofl goods for Kazakhstan. Here they are sold, and you know, when powerful companies are thrown around with money, they buy so randomly, when the affair opens, then the courts cover up, Vojkan Simic, his current deputy Dragan Cesarovic, a certain Biljana Radovanovic, who is the municipal prosecutor in the Fourth Municipal Prosecutor. Adviser, Bogdan Pajkovic, Judge, Gordana Milosevic, Vladimir Ilic, etc. However, you have replaced this Vladimir Ilic, and you have kept all these others. It's your personnel policy in courts. What was worst with the Socialists and the Juveniles is now best for you, on the side that you have brought back many who have been resolved for crime earlier. Now you're bringing them back, and you're bringing them back to public enterprises, both in electricity and in the oil industry, you're bringing back what's worst, and that's your successful human policy. It would be nice to explain to this Dimitar Krstev that he is now going to be the district attorney in Pozarevec, and you are now not letting Miri Markovic live in Pozarevec. You've announced that you'll be expelled and she's fled to the main no matter what, and that's the one who's the one who's the most carpeted there, which was the largest half-tron, you're now promoting to the public prosecutor, instead of doing the opposite. Check the court records at Firevac, check everything, and you'll see that signature. Check there and get the data out. I hear there were some ideas for survey committees, so they're more or less withdrawn. He can do this, and he can do it on the Raska area and this training camp in Peca. Therefore, your human policy in courts is catastrophic and we will now have worse courts than in Tito's time. What you're doing in the judiciary can be measured by what Tito was doing until 1956. After 1956, Tito also made sure that, if nothing, formally agreed with legal norms, he made sure that this legal norm was respected and, of course, welcomed that his followers from DOS were now moving again since 1948 and from absolute lawlessness, the rule of chaos, violence and the like. This affair with the corrupt judges, the Mercedes affair is just one of the most impressive. There's a lot of others we'll also point to when we get our chances. In this case you fall for the exam, your courts don't work, in your courts the main word leads much larger half-trons than they did in the previous period, much larger half-trons than those that used to serve left-wing parties, which you so deliberately attacked. I guess they should have cleaned the half-trons out of the judiciary first, the sold soul, the ones the people simply called the intruders. They don't clean themselves out of courts, they get promoted, they run the main word, and it's no accident that our legal order fell into the parades. I have a number of documents about what I'm talking about and about the various lawsuits that have been brought about, about false criminal charges, about everything that followed this Mercedes affair, including a lot of judges, who are now representatives of DOS politics, sworn DOS people, people who are willing to execute every warrant just to remain in those functions, so that someone doesn't call them to account for earlier dirt.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3008	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Are any of the MPs answering for a word? The word has a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3009	The Honorable Presidency, the esteemed representatives of the government in exile, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the negative staff selection continues. A lot of judges change, a lot of deputies and public prosecutors change, not everyone can cover themselves with a discussion, but there's something that's symptomatic. Mostly the worst are placed in the most responsible places. In the prosecution, I will only remain in the prosecution, in the Third District Public Prosecutor's Office to appoint Mrs Gordana Colic as municipal public prosecutor. The public prosecutor's office is running a lot of fun statistics. The entertainment statistics say that Mrs. Colic was at work at the time of her work in the prosecution, which was about five or six years, a total of 210 days at work, 210 days out of 6 years, which is an excellent average. Another thing that is even more interesting, then we solved Mr. Milan Petkovic as incompetent, as a man who does not meet the tasks set. It's a gentleman who's a socialist man from Arangelovac, who was paid by the D.A.'s office to spend a month in a hotel using a garage, with breakfast, a living room, and everything else, and the people who work in the D.A.'s office calculated that he cost himself how many deputy public prosecutor from Belgrade. We, as incompetent, replaced him a month ago and a few days ago, and now we're putting him in the post of deputy district attorney, we're continuing to pay him a night's sleepover with breakfast, a garage rental, a living room and everything. It's just a sign that the revolution that brought you here hasn't thrown out the same number of quality personnel, you're collecting waste from the previous regime, you're putting them on public functions, and how they're going to be, who they're going to judge and who they're going to sue, that's what we're going to see.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3010	The People's Messenger Slavoljub Matic has the word, and then the MP Goran Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3011	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is very difficult to argue with the people who perform their basic function here with the desire to devastate this parliament, and not the basic role of the opposition in the Republic Parliament. I want to say a few words as an MP from the Fireman. What rots in the judiciary can't change overnight. So our judiciary is what it is. It has its own staff, and for these staffs it is not necessary to appoint personnel in judicial functions by political likeness. Exactly if there is a proposal, which is most likely out of the profession, and the profession from Pogorec, of course, is subject to criticism, and we are particularly pleased to hear that criticism from the people who were -- Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, or in a parliamentary group that certainly has excellent insight into these functions. I'm just wondering why they haven't responded by now, if they know what kind of people they are. Why didn't we hear that from them at the time when they were wearing those high functions, why didn't they react? But they appear now when the judiciary needs to be externally formed and the waist needs to be dominant, not political likeness.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3012	Here you go, Mr. Seselj. This is the second call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3013	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's true there's a lot of rot in our judiciary. And that rot has been piling up for decades. It is true that the previous DOS MP cannot be eliminated overnight. But that's no reason to improve what's most rotten. You didn't even try to remove it rottenly, but to advance the most rotten in the judiciary. Secondly, I was Deputy Prime Minister, but you should know that the government under the Constitution has no jurisdiction in the judicial system. Only the National Assembly for Apology and Resolution is in charge. We insisted that Dragan Arsic, deputy public prosecutor from Zrenjanin, be resolved, because it was proven that he was voluntarily bribed with 100,000 marks to break away from the SRS and leave with Glamocan. But there wasn't a lot of people here to do it. We relieved one of the ministers because she tried to promote her own brother from the office of Judge of the District Court in Nis as judge of the District Court. And now the former minister is also in DOS, on Vladan Batic's website. Because the most corrupt, all the worst waste goes to his party, like Alexander Stefanovic, who bought a diploma in Sarajevo... (President - Mr. Seselj please watch your language and respect...) What?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3014	Please take care of the dictionary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3015	Please, my dictionary is fine, because I make the arguments first and then I give the qualifications. Is the fact that Rada Trajkovic was relieved of the minister's post when she was found to have tried, forcibly, to act as his brother's promotion. That's a fact. When such a difficult fact is presented then there is a difficult qualification, but that qualification here doesn't matter. It's important to the DOS that takes all of this into its ranks, which receives the worst from other parties. There, Aleksandar Stefanovic bought a degree from the Faculty of Pharmacy at the time of the war in Sarajevo (votes – Pharmacy). Now he's a pharmacist, a pharmacist, let go -- it's not a pharmacist. You know, one of those Serbs who ran from Sarajevo took a blank degree and then stood for a thousand or two marks. He has been expelled in our country and with Vladan Batic he is a prominent member of the party and now a national MP. In the next term, Petar Panic will likely be a folk MP if Batic is represented at all in parliament, and we have kicked him out because of his tendency to crime. That's the point. Here's the Rade Trajkovic case. Now, what's worse, you see Private Simic, Cesarovic, everyone I've just listed -- not to mention their names, I can't even remember everything, but I've been properly written and documented -- you're promoting, and they're involved in various affairs. People who have been damaged in these affairs couldn't fight for their rights through the judicial system, so they've had litigation for many years, and criminal charges against them are filed to scare them and so on. Such is your personnel structure now, which you impose on the Serbian judiciary. Nothing better has changed. I'm afraid things are changing worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3016	The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3017	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is no question that the judiciary has not worked before, in the past, properly. I already noted once that Dr Vojislav Seselj once said that all the water of the Danube and Sava, if passed through the courts, could hardly wash away all the mistakes made in Serbia's judiciary. That's why the DOS government is planning somewhere around 70% of the president of the courts to resolve these functions. So it's nothing controversial. It's a slow way of doing it and proposing a new president of the courts. Serbian citizens themselves say DOS authorities are slowly injecting the human infusion into a very anemic circulation of justice. You know we've waited a long time for the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor. I'm asking you, why is that? Foreign lobbying, within DOS, has been particularly expressed at the local level to elect new judges. We have to admit that there are very much re-emergency party lists. Even Justice Minister Mr Batic announced that a commission would be formed to try to prevent lobbying and indirectly, thus acknowledging that lobbying in the judiciary exists. As of October 5th, the DOS party has just had a crucial word in the choice and resolution of the Justice Dealers. The DOS lobbying after the revolution is evidence of the necessity of changing the way the judges choose. Whether the judges and judges working in them are currently ready or not - we have yet to answer that question. In any case, we need to shorten the maneuvering space by political coding and humanizing and allow, at least to try, to create a truly independent judiciary. What I can certainly say, at least from the middle where I come from, from Leskovec, is that there is already an exact knowledge of which party needs to take office. It is known that the Democratic Party, most active in the DOS, should be given the post of President of the Municipal Court and Deputy Public Prosecutor. But they're doing it again somehow inextricably or very suspiciously. In public local media, they give a certain candidate and then they hear stories mostly negative, that he did not work adequately with that court and so on, to later put another judge as a possible president of the municipal court. So, in the end, it's probably someone third, but it's all games that will be resolved very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3018	The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3019	Gentlemen, I am an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, from the Pcinj County, more specifically, from southern Serbia, and I find myself very competent to discuss this agenda point. Mr. Prosecutor of Serbia's Public Prosecutor, my fellow citizen, Stanisa Ivanovic, 30-year-old president of the SK Municipal Committee, as he was already called, then senior SPS official, perhaps JUL, is now taking action, I don't know what to call him anymore, the official of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. Besides, he needs to do the dirty part of the work that's being put into his hands, because there's going to be party prosecutions, shaggings, mounted processes, among other things. This gentleman, the acting officer, has not been changed so far because the DOS parliamentary group has offered five people for the job, which in good part will be dirty, not accepted. You were supposed to tell me why this man is acting as a republican public prosecutor? We well know in southern Serbia what his staffing was and what was happening in the prosecutions and courts in southern Serbia, where such huge robberies were committed without anyone answering so far. All of this is indicated in its own time and Mr. Obligor is so busy doing business here in Belgrade, around the process being conducted, so he found time to come to Vladic's Han just a few days ago and to pass a message to the current prosecutors, municipal and district attorneys, that they "put down a little ball" with the previous set of SPS authorities, which in most cases was blamed for various crimes, so that certain Pcinj County personnel would not come to the wallpaper. There is one proverb in the Serbian people - that there are people with jinxful eyes. I think I have a bewitching tongue. Last time, for these actions of yours, to catch criminals, I said they were white-haired, and those poor people ended up breaking up. When I was in school, I knew what the first bench was for, it was always empty. The honor of these gentlemen who are here, I don't think the government gentlemen are coming here, because occasionally they dare to stand up to the Western powers, so they can't appear here because of their ears. It is a shame not to respect this House, this many laws are being considered and there are no, most responsible people, those who propose and create these laws. I'm afraid this fellow citizen of mine does not pass as the Serb who opened the key to the fortress, which was conquered in Bosnia. The Turks gave him the weight of gold, then cut off his head, because by betraying his former master, he would betray this one.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3020	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have opinions that, when the election is debated, the impeachment, or the resolution of the holders of judicial functions in the Assembly, the president of the Supreme Court and the minister of justice should be found before the MPs, because they should give certain reasons - which is why and on what grounds some judges or prosecutors are dismissed. What I would like to point out is that one serious question is being asked: why at this point did the 28 judges apply for a resolution? That wasn't a long time ago. I don't know what the reasons are, but the government hasn't given a valid explanation regarding this departure of 28 judges. I hope that an appropriate, valid explanation will be given, which are the reasons why people are being handled, what are the motives for the 28 judges leaving the court and asking to be resolved on their own request?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3022	He has the word MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3023	Dear President, the Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, members of the government, when we established the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we heard a statement by our Mr President on the need to establish the rule of law, build state institutions and the need to trust citizens in that institution. A few days later, the Prime Minister also said there was an independent judiciary in Serbia. Therefore, within this part of the agenda, where it is said about the choice of holders of judicial functions, unfortunately, I have to point to certain phenomena, behaviours and statements, which are contrary to the principles declared. First, I hope you remember Dragoljub Milanovic, former RTS director, some of you clapped on the news that he was arrested. I'm saying this for the reason that after a media stunt he was detained on charges of knowing or knowing about the RTS bombing. He was detained for not affecting witnesses, that a few days before the month of the indictment would be extended, in connection with the operation of RTS, as well as the request for a hearing of new witnesses. The business of RTS will be investigated and I have no right to do so, and I don't want to talk about it, but the extension of the witness list with Karl Del Ponte and Jirji Dintsbur is really funny and sad, as more than 50 witnesses were heard in the meantime. In fact, it shows the intention of keeping the defendant in prison until, to use the people's expression, something has already been found for him. Even in the meantime, the famous liemaker, Jamie Shay, denied these allegations because he said that, of course, no one could know when the RTS would be bombed and that NATO had not notified anyone in Serbia and Yugoslavia of its military plans. Secondly, why isn't the prosecutor responding to public harassment, which is being conducted daily? On Saturday night, BK TV broadcast a show about the murder of Mr. Slavko Curuvija. I didn't know the man, and I'm sorry that he was killed, and like every citizen of this country, I want murderers to be found as soon as possible, but I must say that this show has shown the author's intention to carry out the verdict before the trial, above all, of course, Slobodan Milosevic. If the D.A. has information, knowledge of who killed Mr. Curuvia, then he needs to press charges against the murderers immediately and that the judicial authorities are doing their job. If he does not, then he must react to the media, such as the BK, because in this case they are also being appointed as investigators, judges, and executioners. There's an atmosphere of arrests and pre-proven guilt, so that after detention, it's going into action to collect evidence. Thirdly, Mr Djindjic's statements concerning the proceedings against Radet Markovic (you know for a fact that he gave an interview to a foreign newspaper and there he gave his own grades), it is obvious that Mr Djindjic...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3024	Mr Djindjic has not been proposed for any judicial function.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3025	But, Mr. President, he was talking about justice. If you can tell me that the choice of legal holders does not affect the situation in the judiciary...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3026	It affects the future, but not what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3027	It affects people's proposals and choices, and what they do. Please conclude, Mr Djindjic has done several things with his statements: firstly, to disrupt the course of the investigation, to disinform the public on the course of the investigation, to influence witnesses, to pressure the defendant, to disabling the work of the prosecution and police, and to show the clear intention of the executive authority to lead the judiciary and to dictate the work of the judiciary. In the end, we heard statements by some Serbian judiciary leaders that new and quality people are needed to improve the judiciary. The question is, how much do these statements have to believe, or how much are they worth? There are other statements made two months ago by people who were at the top of the Serbian judiciary, that there is a list of similar judges, who can only take the lead, of course, in the opinion of the DOS. If we want a really legal state, then the judicial and prosecutorial investigative authorities should do their job on their own, and the only important fact that they are relevant is that neither politicians nor the media are helping, because it is a lack of respect for their work and pressure to do what they want to do. And finally, I am informing the National Assembly that the SPS parliamentary group will, on the basis of members68. and 69. Rules of Procedure, to submit an initiative to set up a survey committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the arrest of Slobodan Milosevic. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3028	The People's MP Marko Jaksic has the word, followed by MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3029	Speaking of this point, I couldn't help but get back to you, given that in the part of our state we have a judicial system that's different, it's a judicial system that he's been building, let's say, UNMIK, and basically it's a Cypriot judiciary whose goal is primarily to perform ethnic cleansing over the rest of the Serbs. I think that this government, and we ourselves have to have a view of how we're going to treat which intruder, so to speak, who has established himself on our national territory. I must say, there is still a court still in place in Leposavic, which only deals with civil litigation, though. However, we must all have a clear stance on the judiciary in Kosovo. We have more than 40 Serbs in prison, and we see how they're being tried. The man was sentenced to 15 years in prison allegedly for genocide, I think that's the first case since Nuremberg that one man was convicted of genocide. We see that there are no Serbs in that judiciary, there are more than 400 judges and it seems to me that as a government and as people, we must have a clear view of one such strong state function that has nested in our country's territory. Speaking of which, I think the government, and already has three months as it exists, must put the Kosovo issue on the agenda at the first next session. We have to have our own goal, loud and clear to say what we want and what we want down there. I understand that we have 25 points on the agenda, that they are all very important and important, but it seems to me that we have no more important problems from Kosovo. Down below, we have a Yugoslav Committee, but it only exists on paper. The main functions are primarily in the Serbian government, it has formed a commission that has not yet been revived, and there is also a Regional Executive Council that has not been disbanded. We have one separation around all functions, about all things, and we need to make it clear and loud about what we want and what we want down there. The government must propose that we open the issue of Kosovo in full importance at the next session. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3030	The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3031	I am glad that finally the DOS MP from the fire department and Braničevsky County appeared behind this pay phone, although I did not hope to report on this issue. It is not only clear to me whether Mr. Krsteva defends him personally, as a person, or as a man, or defends his actions, why he missed it. It's about a document that the president of the Serbian Radical Party has shown and it's being dated, it seems to me, September 4th, and believe me, we haven't had time to correct such personnel, so we're telling you now because you now have time to correct it and that such a man should not pass and be elected Deputy District Attorney. To be clear, it was a man who initiated a criminal case against the resistance who had been beaten up by Mark Milosevic. Now the same man is initiating criminal proceedings against Mark Milosevic for the attempted murder of the same resistance. It seems to me that the Attorney General is working as the wind blows. I trust Mr. Slavoljub Matic to have problems with the staff in the municipality of Požarec, because those personnel I took from the Serbian Radical Party, without basic moral and other values, he joins the Democratic Party of Serbia and still places him as a member of the Justice Committee at the level of the DSS Municipal Committee. People who do not even have the moral right to be members of a party, he joins and receives, engages and weighs. If that's what he's proposing for the judges, then my president won't wave one piece of paper, but a whole file. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3032	Mr. Matic has a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3033	It never occurred to me in my life to deal with the human rights issue of the judiciary, nor would it ever occur to me. Here, professional, you have courts and judges, people who are employed in the judiciary, who know well how appreciated the contribution and the work of each individual and well know who they propose. So, Mr. Arsic, I've never interfered with the human rights policy of the judiciary, the judiciary, the prosecution, and not now. And you come out with concrete evidence of the mentioned Baptizer, say what was wrong with his former biography, career, give concrete evidence, not some letters of support, or I don't know what. Now I hear about it, I had no idea, and I don't care. I'm interested in what's important to the prosecution and the judiciary, which is to be independent.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3034	The word has a National MP Tomislav Nikolic, followed by Borisvoje Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3035	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, or perhaps it would be better if we of the opposition always spoke to the people, to you who are now the parliamentary majority in this assembly really are worth nothing to say and this people sees and understands perfectly. The same remarks that were once on the street, in the market, in the village, sent to the MPs of the majority who made the left, that they only came here to sit and wait for the vote, I hear more and more often at the expense of the MPs of DOS, and I know how it ends. What's this about? When the prime minister for the composition of this Republic government, who slowly gathers as from the battlefield into the camp, explained his programme, he said that you dignitaries of DOS won't even join the boards of public enterprises to enter, that you don't even think about getting involved in the work of public enterprises, so we should expect that the judiciary will be completely free of your influence. It's not free and terrible things are happening in the judiciary, you gentlemen of the Parliament, but in the cities where you came from, it's going to be all over your head. We have a V.D. The Republic Public Prosecutor, who has met the conditions and he is serving for retirement, and now serves only to propose to the holders of judicial functions, prosecutors, to God he is the one who has seen all of this in Serbia, he proposes to the Committee on Justice and Administration, and the Committee on Justice and Management to you, and you know all these people as honest, fair, quality, independent of power and opposition, and right away vote for all of them. You're doing great harm to both the people and yourself, especially yourself, because the situation in the judiciary is terrible. The arrest of Slobodan Milosevic painted the DOS judiciary. You arrested a man with guns, socks, masks on his head, chased him like a Chicago City cop. He made one statement, and I'm surprised he could put together a statement like that, when he was three hours earlier with Ced Jovanovic. The man who had to spend three hours with Chad in a conversation was supposed to let him rest, get some sleep, make a statement. What happened next? The statement is the defense of a man. Those who read, they saw that it was the State's involvement in some affairs. They saw it was a state secret, and then what did they do? What your wonderful justice has done. What did the minister do, what are all the other ministers who turned into harangu, the judiciary, the prosecution, the investigation? You gave that statement to all the newspapers in the world, so you say, "Here, now it's clear that Serbia was involved in all the wars." Who are you accusing, Slobodan Milosevic? That's not true. You accuse the whole country and the whole people, my dear gentlemen, of something that has been the duty of this country and this people, which you have not participated in, so now you are proud of. That's your situation in the judiciary. A state secret told before the judge went to all the living newspapers, to all the Western states' embassies in Belgrade. You will convince me that this is an independent judiciary. You're going to convince me that you think well of this country. What do you mean, good? By abolishing the Constitutional Court? You ran faster to get rid of the judges. Whoever met the terms of retirement is retired, and where are your proposals, gentlemen, for new judges? What are we leaving, all the dishes without most? Just fill the Supreme Court with your staff to finally rule, and the Constitutional Court will not exist until we adopt all these packages of law. You're going to convince someone that the situation was bad, and now you're going to fix the situation in the judiciary. According to the courts, there's panic, the courts are combed, who's from the judges, and when he said one word against any local DOS powermaker, who brought him in, when he was stealing, changing exchanges and smuggling, he's now counting that he's not going to get into office anymore. You're bringing to office an incompetent judge who's been expelled from the judiciary as incompetent. You lead them to those who estimate they're incompetent. They are. You bring someone to justice for 30 years, and I don't want to tell the kids, but people who have yet to make a trade. What are you going to do when all you were, you went to the ministers and ambassadors. Now you need a frame. You're the best one who's changed the holster as soon as the power's changed. The people see it all, he is very concerned, and the citizens of Serbia know why you changed the Constitutional and Supreme Court, which was by the reputation of Milosevic. And now that you're insulting the municipal and county courts, they know you're about to drive cows out of the barn, taking things out of the houses. If they had to... (loud from the hall: dwellings), even from the dwellings. If you'd just watched what I was doing in your life, you'd have earned at least one apartment from the state. Thank you. [[Applause radically.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3036	The word has a folk MP, Borisvoje Mijatovic, and after that, MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3037	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I am not surprised at this kind of harsh reaction, such as the general criticism of the SRS MPs regarding this item of the agenda. What surprises me is the fact that previous courts had full support of the SRS all the time, while making decisions. When many electoral thefts were discovered in 1996, especially in Belgrade, none of them raised their voices either against Vladimir Ilic, from New Belgrade, or against Judge Dragan Jankovic, without mentioning other judges. They were very pleased with the daily newspaper trials under their Information Act, were very rare cases, one of the women judges in Vojvodina and Judge Papovic in Pozarevec, who abolished such convictions. So much concern for the independent, free judiciary by Mr Seselj and his MPs is surprising, when we had the opportunity on at least two occasions to convince ourselves otherwise, to see how they respected the court, first when there was a trial in the Belgrade municipal court, in the Court of Justice, according to a complaint by Professor Lilić against insults by Vojislav Seselj, and before that, according to the case of Vuk Draskovic. Mr. Seselj turned that court search into a circus, taking over the role of President of the Court, and the prosecutor, and his own lawyer, in an O.R. that was filled with his supporters. That's what the TV was broadcasting. I can't figure out how that judge lady could have played the role of Seselj's assistant in running this process, not to mention what might be the dirtiest thing that ever happened in the federal parliament during a flagrant violation of the federal constitution... (President: Please stick to the agenda. )......................................................................................................... and the adoption of those amendments, when he played the attorney-in-chief for the defense of those amendments to change the federal constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3038	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3039	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3040	There used to be quite a number of doctors in this National Assembly, and some of them were specialists in this nursing dementia, as it is already called, if anyone knows I'm not wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3041	Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3042	You know, as far as the Federal Constitution is concerned, they've been executed in a constitutionally prescribed manner. If not, then Vojislav Kostunica is anti-constitutionalally elected and he should resign immediately as a legalist. If constitutional changes were illegal, then Kostunica is also illegal. Secondly, you should know, not go out for this pay phone and do those ugly things, those ugly things should be done elsewhere. You don't know anything. In 1997, I filed criminal charges against Vladimir Ilic because he embezzled money from the Municipal Election Commission. Tmusic was the district attorney, refused me the criminal charges, and I attacked the public and Tmusic. Vladimir Ilic has been cited here several times as an example of the poor situation in the judiciary, but we did not have enough majority in the Assembly to resolve him, and the government cannot resolve the prosecutor. So on the subject of Vladimir Ilic, you completely missed, because you have no idea about anything. That is why we have fought to get rid of Ivosevic, due to multiple abuse of the judicial position. And Vučetic, of course, also abused the position of the Constitutional Court judge, who came with Milosevic's will and the Socialists, on a party basis, because he failed in the election as a party MP in 1990. Boris Karaicic was small then, maybe still sucked, so don't remember. But there are people here who remember. When he failed as a parliamentary candidate, who beat him, whether Micunovic or anyone else, it doesn't matter, then he was found in the Constitutional Court. After a while, of course, he thought the ship was sinking, so as a rat, he flew to the surface and engaged in a party. That's why he's been relieved. So where the majority could be achieved, such judges were resolved. Where there was no possible majority, it was not possible to resolve. We were mostly digging to get rid of Dragan Arsic, deputy public prosecutor from Zrenjanin, but it couldn't because he sold himself for 100,000 marks in 1994 to get the Socialists most in the federal parliament. (President: Time. ) Not only him, but also Glamocanin, Dusan Boskovic, you do not mention him now, Radovan Vukcevic and others. They were nine or seven. Covic blackmailed Dereta, your Covic, Deputy Prime Minister, to suspend his bookshop in the legate of painter Gvozdenovic, as he was one of the most radical anti-communists This Dereto, who threatened to replace his cell phones and pagers with handcuffs, Covic blackmailed him into shutting down the bookstore he and his family live from, so he blackmailed him, bought him to vote for the Socialists, to separate himself from the SRS. [[President: Mr. Seselj, this is a replica, time is up.]] Jeremiah of the Fireman also gave the master's degree. They wrote him master's work, and stuff like that. Where it could be corrected, it was corrected, where it is not, instead of correcting you now when you have a comfortable majority, you keep such people, because this Dragan Arsic from Zrenjanin will now serve as well as you, as Batic serves Petar Panic. (President: Mr. Seselj, second time I warn you, this is a replica, three minutes, and now we're in the fifth minute. Did I use two minutes? (President: You used 4.47 minutes. I can’t look at the clock at all times.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3043	There's no replica on the replica. The Minister, Mr Batic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3044	Our people have that saying -- who about what, the grandmother of the wrinkles. I don't know why many people were worried about the choice of legal holders. There's probably something there. I have to remove all the dilemmas. So there was no, absolutely no influence by the executive authority, the justice ministry and the local self-government and the government of the Republic of Serbia, on the proposals so far for selecting the holders of judicial functions. So absolutely none. The Proposer is the Justice Committee. Now I have heard for the first time that some of the holders of judicial functions are proposed, precisely because they have the authority and the minister of justice to propose, but precisely for reasons of non-interference in the work of the free and independent judiciary and the judicial authorities at all. That's one thing. The second thing, the previous time when elected holders of judicial functions were not a single word of objection to, say, the election of the Supreme Court President, Mrs Leposave Karamarkovic, because he is the best. There was no single objection to Mrs. Vida Shekro's election as head of the Belgrade District Court, because it is obviously the best. I haven't heard a single word of objection to any other then proposed candidates for the holders of judicial functions. So if the goat is lying, the horn isn't lying. I don't know what this is about. You have to argue with those claims that it's one way or another. On the other hand, the government did not move any faster in changing judicial function holders. If it were a desire to be a retribution, to be an amputation, it could have been done at the First Session of the Republic of Parliament, but it wasn't precisely for the reason why it was intended to make the choice of the best, most professional and morally undiscloded people. It was probably also managed by the Justice Committee, because I repeat, it was not the minister of justice either before or now, nor was the government proposing any legal function bearer, although it could be, through the minister of justice. One more thing, candidates for judges and presidents of the Constitutional Court do not propose either the Ministry of Justice or the Government. You know who's proposing them. So it doesn't matter the constitutional court. Further, as regards the process being conducted, give the name of a single prosecutor, a judge in Serbia whose phone was turned by the minister of justice, a single man. Freely, I stand at my disposal at all times of the day and night, to the extent that I have read in the press that the case against Slobodan Milosevic, and the investigation is conducted by Mr. Goran Cavlin, I do not know at all which judges lead the other proceedings, I do not know their names, judges or prosecutors. And this is an example of the non-mixing of the executive authority in the work of the judicial authorities. Also, on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, and on behalf of the Government, we are happy to accept the formation of a committee of inquiry. No one escapes from forming a polling committee of the Republic of Parliament to shed light on the circumstances of the arrest of Slobodan Milosevic. We're in the mood to form a survey board, to see who did what. So, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior, the government, the military, the paramilitary formations, the activists of certain parties, all the nice survey board to shed light on. We care very much about finding the truth. So don't worry about the work of the judicial authorities. Those who are guilty or feel guilty will soon face the judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3045	The word has a folk MP Dragan Ciolic, followed by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the situation in our judicial system has not been well before. Now with the resolution and selection of judicial officials, and in this very important sphere, DOS is bringing chaos. You've created chaos everywhere you appear. As is the situation in the judiciary, so is the state. If there's no need for politics to interfere, it's the judiciary. If there's anything in this country that needs to be incoherent, independent, it's the judiciary. If someone is blindly obedient and morally liked, and yet incompetent, there he is on DOS personnel list, in very important functions. What justice will you share for the citizens of Serbia if you have such personnel as we have heard from previous debaters? Is it for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia, if you replace an honorable, moral and capable legal holder with an unholy, immoral, incompetent? You don't care what he's like, just that he's a member of DOS politics, only that he's on your criminal political line. Introduce chaos in all areas of society, national, political, economic and social spheres. It's all about immorality, and there's not gonna be a word about the independence of the justice system. We Serbian radicals have an obligation to announce to the citizens of Serbia what awaits them under your authority. "Your Justice" will experience many, your immorality will come to a full extent. Your justice will be yours alone, and as you do, it will not benefit the citizens of Serbia. The generations of the work of the court, the judges of both you and your justice. Moral impotence is your main feature and mark. Perhaps it was not necessary to talk a lot about the situation in the judicial system, the reflection of everything that is happening in our country, and in the judiciary as our minister of justice, Mr Vladan Batic, is the same as the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3047	The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3048	Ladies and gentlemen, I had to answer because in his previous presentation, Mr. Seselj made a rather difficult lie. He mentioned Mr. Jeremic, a machine engineer who works behind the fireman in Kostolc, who was an MP here, was a member of the Radical Party. Later he left the Radical Party, but not because someone wrote him master's work. Mr. Jeremic mastered the Faculty of Engineering in Belgrade, I was a member of that commission ( unfortunately his mentor has already died, my dear colleague from the Faculty of Engineering). The magistrates don't write for political reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3049	Replica, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3050	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that the candidate does not write a master's degree for political reasons, but Zivorad Jeremic here in the National Assembly was written a master's work organised by Dragan Tomic. This is where the people brought the pieces, it's tailored here, this is where the Dactilographers typed, this is where it was all typed into the form of master's work, in this building of the National Assembly. That's true. The fact that you were a member of the defense committee and you didn't notice that someone else was doing this to him, I can't get into it, but Jeremiah was here in the National Assembly building, we have a large number of witnesses, here in the National Custodial Building, it was teamwork.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3051	Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Ivkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3052	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, with great attention I have listened to previous discussions and wanting to believe in the words of Minister Batic, and I really want to believe that he is absolutely not having any effect on any part of the work in Serbia's judicial system, I cannot but at this point, when new personnel are elected for Serbia's first-judicial system, I do not point to a poor great mood in the people, which I believe is coming to some of the strengths and interferences of a country's essential functions. We have a legislative system, we have an executive system and a judicial system. Unfortunately, in recent months, Serbian citizens have learned about the political system. Never in the earlier government has a college of the Socialist Party of Serbia held meetings in the government of the Republic of Serbia. These days, we have had the opportunity to learn that the DOS College was held in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that it has decided and probably brought that into the position of the President of the Assembly, Mr Marsicanin and us here to realize that we are too high, because as the College has decided, so is the executive system, and most likely the judicial system of this country is working. This is where Mr Tomislav Nikolic, whom I generally highly respect, said something that does not stand and I want to point out. He said the Interior Ministry was operating from Konvanska Street. That is absolutely not true, and that is why we are asking for a survey committee to be formed, to examine everything that has happened since March 30th, the night between March 30th and March 31st, especially March 31st and April 1st in the morning. It's about that, Mr. Nikolic, that unidentified faces with female nylon black socks over their heads, in shoes of different types, jeans, sports trainers, yellow jackets, blue and white incursions to the courtyard of the residence without any warrant, without any record of which it is, behind the back of the legal forces of the Ministry of the Interior. So, the legal forces of the MUP, which in the meantime were trampled by MPs who showed them parliamentary IDs and called for them not to be able to do that, turned their backs and let it all happen behind their backs. That is why we are asking for a survey committee to be formed, but it is certain that this assembly needs and that another polling committee, to consider, believe Minister Batic absolutely does not have any influence, but to consider writing the press and statements of certain members of the Government of Serbia, who, with great confidence, claim that there is evidence that this and this did so and that they can even assume both execution and death sentences, without Minister Batic returning and not saying that this is an influence on the judiciary. Because when a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia shows through the media his belief that someone is guilty, believing that there is evidence, believing that he should be held accountable, even believing that he should experience the death penalty, then it is Mr Batic and what an impact on the justice system of our country. The only thing left for us is to trust deeply in people who work in the judicial system, to trust deeply in their honor, in their knowledge, and to believe that they are aware that there will surely come a moment when and how to measure what is who and whether by law they have worked during the DOS period.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3053	Replica Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3054	I think you misread me, Mr. Ivkovic. I've known my grandfathers so many times that I've been to the Iraqi embassy's reception three times. I don't know where the Konanovanska street is, or where those other streets are, and certainly I couldn't tell you that the police arrested him when I didn't see the cops there, but the bandits and don't give God to any of the MPs of DOS, not one Serbian citizen to show up at night at the door of the house where they live, whether it's his, whether it's residence, whether the apartment he rented is, I don't know. The question arises whether you will accuse and condemn a man who defends his house even though you decide to re-apply such measures, which hurt or kill someone. This man lived in that house with the knowledge of Vojislav Kostunica. If you don't respect the president of the SRJ, tear this DOS group apart, build your own special group, but in person Vojislav Kostunica gave it a residence and guaranteed security in that residence, and then some of them with socks over their heads began to jump over the board. I'm telling you, there's no house in the Woodland where at least one weapon that would shoot at him wouldn't be there. Are you going to introduce this system of government? Is that right for you, are those regular police units for you? You're making a mockery of one action you've been planning all along while you've been in opposition. You made her a farce. After that, you make statements, (no, Mr. Minister was busy shaking hands with Hook), the Prime Minister says Milosevic has committed acts for which the death penalty is scheduled. How far did you get this? We're looking at 50 tax laws, you're going to dissuade the people, and over there, you think stalking arrest is enough for the people to forgive you. So, Mr. Ivkovic, that's what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3055	Third time Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3056	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has never been more pronounced since Titus's time that the executive authority was involved in the work of the judicial authorities than in the days of DOS rule. A moment ago Batic here claimed there was no interference, and we have hundreds and hundreds of evidence of what intense interference is. Here, it's already been discussed the case of the arrest of Slobodan Milosevic. He gets arrested by a gang of criminals and he doesn't make it. The two were wounded, and DOS ministers say -- wounded two police officers, but they can't tell them their names, because they're not cops at all, they're members of the DOS gang. Maybe they gave them D.B. ID later. It's not impossible either. It is not impossible for Vladan Batic to give his entire gang, and Peter Panic and Lemon and Glass, to give all such IDs to the DB...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3057	Mr. Seselj, please take care of the dictionary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3058	The word is, be careful, because people are in...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3059	I don't know what it's about, but somebody's talking about the gang - still take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3060	Wait, I'm presenting evidence, Mr. President. You've heard of Glass. He shot Peter Panic with eight bullets. He's back from abroad. He fled abroad at the time of the last government. As soon as DOS won, he returned, reported to the court and was released to defend himself from freedom. Where is that possible? Explain to me. For attempted murder, eight shots fired into the flesh, defends himself from freedom. It can only be done under DOS rule. And Vladan Batic is extremely capable in these things. He is now in a position to contaminate and Glass, who attempted murder, and Peter Panic, who was the victim of that attempted murder and barely survived. It is in a state of Vladan Batic. You see, during this gang attack on Milosevic's residence, a van that is very similar to what eyewitnesses say was involved in the kidnapping of Ivan Stambolic. The American helicopter was waiting on Drina. What was imagined - Milosevic to kidnap, transfer to the Americans, in one day's time it's over. The action was also distracted from this pay phone in the National Assembly and the resistance of Milosevic's bodyguards in the residence itself, and only then comes the official police, only then are court rulings issued on the detention, the initiation of the investigation, etc. When that gang attacked, there was no regular solution, no regular warrant. That's the facts. Furthermore, is it a lie that Zoran Djindjic is on Wednesday, I don't know what newspaper he was in, the German newspaper, doesn't matter which list, did Zoran Djindjic say that Milosevic is threatening the death penalty? Did Dusan Mihailovic say the same thing in the middle of Vienna? Are those facts, may the Prime Minister say, may the Minister of the Interior say so? Can anyone from the executive authority make such a statement? Especially since there are no elements in the criminal record to give that sentence. Something that you're only preparing in secret you're going ahead and you're going on about it. Do we have a legal order? Whoever it is. Or another example, which was just before the talk. I mocked the judiciary, not Stevan Lilic, the proven plagiarizer who sued me for revealing his plagiarism. And now it's Stevan Lilich...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3061	Well, Mr. Seselj, please go back to the subject and don't use... qualifications.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3062	Please, it's about selecting a judicial officer. The debate discusses the independence of the judiciary. Because in this case, the independence of the judiciary, the judicial branch of power, is clearly at stake. It's my fault that a plagiarist sued me and, of course, what can this process turn into rather than comedy? Vladan Batic says it is not true that he interfered with the work of the judiciary, that he did not give orders. He gave the order to Leposavi Karamarkovic, that's what it's called, I can't remember their names anymore because it's about people who are the worst moral characteristics, you know, he gave her a warrant. Within half an hour she formed a judicial council in the Supreme Court and the court council ruled against the constitutional and against the law in my case, even though it was obvious that it was a violation of the Constitution and the law. The head of the court council was Alexander Doncic, who needs to retire in a few days, or you promised him two more years to stay, or you scared him that you were going to expose him to an affair from a previous period. You, Mr. President, in one extremely incorrect way, when I couldn't react, you said I was a former professor of law school. That's not true. I am now a professor of Law School because the solution to my choice has not been abolished alive, and not even the Minister of Education Gašo Knezevic, because in drunkenness or stupidity he abolished the previous act, the preparatory act. At least Vladan Batic should know what the previous act is, an act that does not produce a legal fact that has no legal power. It was abolished, as if the Constitutional Court had abolished the draft law, not the law itself published in the Official Messenger. That's the essence of your authority. It's all so in the judiciary. Honorable people among judges are disgusted, honorable people among prosecutors, because even before, when there were a lot of abuses in the judiciary, they didn't have this kind of press, they didn't have this kind of instrumentation. Since 1956, this instrumentation has not been in the judicial system. Now they've got it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3063	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3064	President, you probably haven't noticed, you're under the impression of all of this being done in the judiciary, so you didn't notice that I answered my word. Today on the agenda we have the choice of some of the holders of the judicial functions and what you started to do in the package, which was mentioned at the third or fourth extraordinary session of this new National Assembly, today came as a continuation and for some of the proposed SRS MPs have presented their concrete actions and effects in the judiciary so far, and also concrete political activities. It really should serve you the honor of taking over JUL personnel in the judiciary, promoting them, and the fact that you are doing so both in the economy and in the levels of local self-government is at least one municipality in Shumadia, Batocina, an example. Everything that has been proven in JUL through acts that are illegal, through the failure of local self-government -- you have now taken over to temporary municipal councilal council and other functions. But what is interesting are Mr. Prime Minister Vladan Batic's claims, which we will particularly deal with at the last item of the agenda. I mean the MPs of the SRS. However, since he has already called today and said that he has absolutely no interference either as a minister, and he is the minister of your DOS coalition, I suppose he thought and that he wanted to argue, I believe that he would surely argue, that none of the local officials and leaders of your DOS coalition have any insight whatsoever into what is happening, that the judiciary is impartial, that these are primarily moral and honorable people that you propose to certain functions. I would like to tell Minister Batic what his activists didn't have to say last week, who usually deals with the staffing of Kragujevac, that one of his coalition partners at a press conference in Kragujevac last week told him publicly and loudly who the candidates for the head of the MUP in Kragujevac were for the President of the Municipal and District Court - so that all Kragujevci and the citizens of Šumadija who followed all the local televisions could hear, how the Committee of the Local DOS met, I guess that's what it is called, when you can meet, when you have a quorum, when you don't talk about various functions, when you don't kidnap what you can kidnap and so I suggest candidates. The spirits have not yet calmed down in the Kraguing judiciary. People who are proposed to these functions, whose appointment we do not have today, but we will likely have them at the next session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, have been proven in their "democratic" activities. Even the nominated president, the future district court, was moved that through local media, funded by SOROŠ Foundation, so-called. "Independent light," explains how she has contributed enough since 1996, in street protests, demonstrations, etc. And as she clearly deserves, she recommended that you appoint her to that function. In any case, those who make such statements, and they are representatives of the local DOS party in Kragujevac, and they skipped a lot of material, then you need to split the packs, agree that you will disobey the warning that they do not make such statements, that they are not public, if it is a secret for you, if you declare yourself as people who have nothing to do with it, and in fact, it turns out that they are all already checked personnel. What you said as a minister, and what moved a lot in public, in the election of Leposava Karamarkovic as president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, is that the Serbian Supreme Court building was not provided by the previous government and that, for God's sake, they have no working conditions. First, several times from this pay phone, and this is known to the general public, we said and pointed out the fact that the previous government, to the insistence of the Serbian Radical Party, provided in Nemanja Street no. 9, a building for the future work of the Supreme Court of Serbia, which (and you probably can't believe it, are your friends, like the one who was legally sentenced to 20 years in prison in our country, and who ordered this building to be bombed, your friend whom you welcome with praises), in the senseless aggression of the NATO Pact brought down. On the other hand, you said no one had any objections to the election of Leposava Karamarkovic, the presidents of municipal courts in Belgrade, which is not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3065	That's 24 or 25th of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3066	No, it's just the beginning of the 25th, I'm talking about what the minister said today, speaking of the first item of the agenda. Then you should have warned the minister. Listen carefully and it'll be fine, you're probably under the impression of more of those nonexistent spirits. Wait a minute, here, I'm done. The fact is that the choice of Leposava Karamarković was according to your standards, as you will, and the fact that it is located as the head of a Centre for the Promotion of Legal Studies (I have this memo in front of me), which is directly funded by the SOROŠ Foundation, we can imagine what kind of justice will be to us, what will these holders of judicial functions you choose. After all, the president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, also spoke about the government, which has criminals around it, who draw women's socks on their heads, while at the same time one of the Deputy Prime Minister Zarko Korac, has activists who pull women's socks on his feet.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3067	The word has a minister of justice, Mr Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3068	I don't want to deal with the controversy of how cops were armed and trained when they were arrested. We look at every evening pictures from the world, from Sicily, from Corsica, Spain, from America, that people in similar actions are dressed in a similar way, as it now seemed. Something will say about the MUP and the survey board if it's formed, but I'll remind you, these people didn't go there to pick flowers or catch butterflies, they were shot by some armed men, shot from within by some armed people. I hope it'll all be determined by the board of inquiry. From what I've read in the papers, police officers have been wounded, their names have been released. So it is not true that their names have not been published (Hessel, from the place: When? )......................................................................................................... in the daily press, but this will be made clear, of course, by the MUP, by the committee of inquiry, and we care very much for all these circumstances to be made clear. So no one's running away from all that. It's constantly mentioned, I see in this proposal for a 25th agenda, some kind of gang that I've formed, the names of people I've never seen in my life, never met, never heard of, never met. So, I've never spoken to Peter Panic in my life. I know from the press, he's been to another party before. Never in my life, until this proposal, have I heard, seen, met, spoken the word to people marked by names or nicknames "Limun", "Glass" and so on. It's just that it's just a bunch of silly things, but it's all allowed here, because that's the way some parties are acting, and they're slowly disappearing from the political scene. After all, the effects of the work of the judicial authorities should be asked Serbian citizens - what do they think about it? They think best of all, and I'm letting that people's worth again: "Everyone scratches where it it itches." (Employer Seselj is looking for a word for the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3069	According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3070	Mr. President, my words are incorrectly interpreted here, I'm going to make it very short, half a minute, just to let Vladan Batic explain...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3071	Mr. Seselj, we will plead your objection.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3072	That Vladan Batic explains that this Glass is not in prison, attempted murder, eight bullets in the body.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3073	Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm concluding a unique search and we're moving on to a decision. Since a number of proposals v.d. have been challenged during the search The Republic Public Prosecutor, I remind you, is that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 172, paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure shall immediately decide on each contested proposal and then decide on any other undeniable proposals in general by a public vote. So I'll put the V.D. proposal to the vote first. The Republic Public Prosecutor's Office to elect Dimitar of the Baptism for the District Attorney in Pozarevec, whose candidacy has been challenged. I'm asking you to make this clear by voting. For 105, against six abstentions, 36 did not vote 22, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dimitri Krstev as District Attorney in Pogorevec. I put the motion V.D. to the vote. The republic's public prosecutor, to elect Miroslav Srzentic, whose candidacy is also disputed, for the District Attorney in Negotin. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare themselves by voting on this proposal. For 131 against four, abstentions of 27, 12 MPs did not vote, a total of 174. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Miroslav Srzentic as District Attorney in Negotin. I am putting to the vote the motion of the performer of the Republic Public Prosecutor's office to elect Gordana Colic, whose candidacy has been disputed, for the municipal public prosecutor at the Third Municipal Court in Belgrade. For 123, against one with 40 abstentions, 9 did not vote, and 173 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Gordana Colic as municipal public prosecutor in the Third Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. I am putting to the vote the motion of the performer of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office to elect Milan Petkovic, whose candidacy has been challenged, as deputy district attorney at the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office. For 126, there were no 16 abstentions, no 7. A total of 149 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has elected Milan Petkovic as Deputy Public Prosecutor at the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. We move to a decision on the proposal of MP Milos Nesovic. You're giving up? Thank you, I understand that MP Milos Nesovic withdrew the amendment. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the court's office to judges of general jurisdiction and economic courts, with amendments and additions. So we've decided on these whose bids have been challenged. I put the motion for a decision with amendments and additions to vote. For 143, there were no abstentions of 18, no 7. A total of 168 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office to judges of general jurisdiction and economic courts, with amendments and additions. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to dismiss the judge of the District Court in Valjevo. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 144, there were no abstentions of 19, there were no 10 votes, and a total of 173 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a resolution from the judge of the District Court in Valjevo. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision on the termination of office for public prosecutors, with additions. I'm putting the motion to vote, with the additions. For 142, one, abstentioned 24, did not vote 7, and 174 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the functions of public prosecutors, with additions. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to dismiss the post of deputy district attorney in Kragujevac. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 140, against one, 24 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, and 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a resolution from the district attorney's office in Kragujevac. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision on the discharge from the post of deputy municipal public prosecutor in the 4th municipal public prosecutor's office in Belgrade. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 144, there were no 25 abstentions, no 7. A total of 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to dismiss the public prosecutor's office in the Fourth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. We move to a vote on the draft decision on the election of district attorneys. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 130, there were no 35 abstentions, no 14 votes, a total of 179 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect district attorneys. We move to a vote on the draft decision to elect a deputy district attorney in Belgrade. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 130, there were no abstentions of 39, there was no 9 vote, and a total of 178 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect a deputy district attorney in Belgrade. We move to a vote on the draft decision on the election of municipal public prosecutors. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 129, there were no abstentions of 40, no votes were cast, and a total of 177 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect municipal public prosecutors. We move to a vote on the draft decision on the election of Deputy Public Prosecutor at the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 130, there were no 38 abstentions, there were no 10 votes, and a total of 178 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect a deputy municipal public prosecutor in the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. This ended the work on the first item of the agenda. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Decision appointing the Deputy Secretary of the People's Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia has adopted a proposal for a decision, which has been submitted by the Administrative Committee. In accordance with Article 153 of the Treaty on the I'm opening a single search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? Since no one's answering for a word, I'm concluding a unique search. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the appointment of the deputy secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 128, against 19, with 35 abstentions, did not vote 9, a total of 191 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to appoint a deputy secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - The proposal for a decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been adopted by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia. In accordance with Article 153 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) Are any of the MPs present? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering the question, I conclude a single search and put to the vote a motion for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 141 no one, with 26 abstentions, voted 8, a total of 175 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Tax Tax Act on Civilian Income, you have received a bill from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Jovan Deretić, Ljubodrag Grbić, Bozidar Vučurović, Petar Jojić, Miroljub Veljković, Borislav Pelevic, Stevan Kesejić, Bozidar Vujic, Lazar Marjanski, Milan Janković, Đordje Mamula, Slobodan Pavlovic, Dusan Ilic, Momir Radoičić, Dragan Colić, Dragan Tomić and Đura Lazić, Gorica Mojović and Milena Milošević, Dragan Marković, Natasa Jovanovic, Goran Cvetanović, Ljubomir Kragović, Živoko Selaković, Stevo Dragšić, Srboljub Živanovic, Gordana Pop - Lazić, Vitomir Plužarevic, Veroljub Arsic, Radojko Petrić, Milović, Milorad Mirović and Vladović as well and Vladović. You have received amendments to the Legislative Committee and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You received a report from the Finance Committee. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, which proposes to replace the number "61" in article 105, and the number "65", with the number "64", which removes the error of calling for the provisions of the bill. This proposal of the Legislative Committee on the Legal - Technical Order in Article 105 was agreed by a representative of the Proposer at the Committee's session. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (Tomislav Nikolic: breach of the Rules of Procedure) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3074	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as far as I can see, the president of the National Assembly is about to give a word to someone here in the O.R. I don't know for what reason. The government's proposal for this agenda item is Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic. I don't know in what capacity this gentleman, chewing gum at the sittings so far, would have come out for this pay phone. I hear he's welcome to be an assistant or a deputy minister. It doesn't qualify him to appear here on behalf of the legislator, on behalf of the government, because he's not a member of the government. The bill here can only be explained to us by a member of the government, not by deputies, assistant ministers. So please, Mr. President, make sure that at least that minister, whose agenda is on the agenda, attends the session of the National Assembly. Don't humiliate the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3075	Mr. Nikolic's remark stands. If there is any objection that the deputy minister is representing the promoter, we will have to respect that. The fact is, due to the fog at the airport, Mr Djelic is late on his way to Belgrade. If you think you should allow Mr. Minister to come, we'll take a break, which will be held by the Finance Committee. Until we can agree on that, Mr Jovanovic answered the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3076	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the ultimate humiliation for the MP is a situation where he is deprived of his right to do his job. Given the unplanned circumstances, which have prevented Minister Djelic from taking part in the debate in our Parliament, I would like to inform you that he has officially, as well as the President of the Assembly, informed me of this and I would like to ask the Assembly to declare his absence and to show freedom to Deputy Mr Djelic, in accordance with Article 188, which says that, with the draft law, second regulation or general act tabled by the National Assembly, the Government is notifying the National Assembly about its representatives and creditors for the National Assembly meetings and its committees. The government informed before the start of the session and the president of the assembly, and me as head of the DOS parliamentary group, so I ask the Assembly to make a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3077	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, authorised representative or representative of the government at this meeting for this part of the agenda is Finance and Economy Minister Bozidar Djelic. If he is prevented, another member of the government can do so. There's no problem. Every minister. In earlier practice, if there is no minister from that portfolio, even the vice-presidents of the government, who are in that portfolio in the government themselves, chaired by the board of directors. It is not necessary for Bozidar Djelic to talk about this law at all. If he thinks he should speak, he can speak, he's right, he's authorized in the name of the government to speak. As the Government may also have the authority of the Minister of Health to speak about this law, if it considers it competent or any other minister, but it cannot speak to parliament about the law. In executive power, all government officials, except government members, are except ministers. They're officials, they're elected by the Assembly. They can address the congregation for work they do. This is no longer a matter of voting whether we want Peru, Ziku or Djoku. There's something here that can and can't. What he can't do can't turn into "can." That's the point. We can have a debate on the proposal for this law without a minister or when the minister arrives to address the Assembly. The minister can answer the word at any time. We can move this point to the end of the session, and we can declare a break and wait for the minister to arrive from the airport until the fog passes. So these are our options, to lead the debate without the government's authorised representative, or to wait for him to come or for the government to appoint someone else from the ranks of its members, and its members are just ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3078	Here you go, Mr. Ivkovic, and Mr. Pelevic, but I think we're getting close to the solution to start the debate and wait, and at that time we'll have a regular break and then we'll continue to work with the minister's presence.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3079	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not so much to say the insolvent problem, but the problem is that the president of the DOS parliamentary group has a solution that is always present, let's vote and that by voting the DOS majority we'll do whatever we want. I think the citizens of Serbia must see it, understand and understand, that there is essentially a surplus of MPs here that they have chosen, who simply have to accept the desire to just do what most people want, even without having a meeting of the Finance Committee. The chairman of the Finance Committee sits here and won't come out and say the Finance Committee hasn't discussed the proposed legislative projects as a whole. It is the responsibility of the chairman of the Finance Committee to come out and say, dear MPs, we have in principle begun to discuss what is now there, but the amendments have not been discussed. I think the Finance Committee must do its job as a whole, so that this item of the agenda can be considered. There's one more thing that's much more important, my dear ladies and gentlemen, the fourth point is the Bill of Tax on Income of Citizens, the fifth is the Bill of Tax on Business Taxes, the sixth is the Bill on Taxes on Property, the seventh is the Bill on Tax on Use, Sticking and Wearing goods, the eighth is the Bill on Tax on Financial transaction, all those tax regulations, and now we run and keep quiet, at the request of the DOS majority, we vote all in the next three minutes, they're not worth anything, they're not worth a single bug, because the law on the basis of the tax system that sits as 16 points of the agenda at a meeting in the Federal Assembly is the basis that these laws could ever live. Since for unknown reasons, a meeting of the Federal Assembly has been postponed and we all deeply believe that it will not be there until the elections in Montenegro are held. We need to understand and understand that for no reason are we in a hurry to bring these tax regulations, because they are in direct contrast to the existing Tax System Fundamentals Act. We will do all of this and rush and fog, and plane, and it will be worth nothing, until new laws on the basis of the tax system are passed, which is 16 points of the agenda and which may be considered even in May of the month. People, please, let's go slowly, measured to work, civicly, and I suggest that the chairman make a decision on the break, that the president of the parliamentary groups sit down, that the chairman of the Finance Committee, eventually, appoint a Finance Committee, so let's see what we do next.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3080	I think we should make a deal, Mr. Pelevic to speak, so we took the solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3081	I have something important. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3082	Would you rather be Mr. Pelevic? Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3083	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the agenda item The draft law on income tax is too important for the citizens of Serbia, so that the opening statement is not submitted by a member of the government. That's exactly what I agree with my predecessors. I suggest that in order to work more efficiently in this assembly, we postpone this item of the agenda for later, and now to work on the agenda points, where the rapporteur is not a member of the government. We have several legislative proposals, Mr Branislav Ivkovic, Mr Lazar Marjanski, we have a proposal for a vote of mistrust to Minister of Justice Vladna Batić, etc. I suggest that we postpone these points that the rapporteur, Mr Bozidar Djelic, is on his way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3084	Are you giving me your word now?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3085	Just to make suggestions, see what we have to decide later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3086	This was very important, Mr. President, and since our Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly insists first and foremost on legality, in the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Article 12(1) of the National Assembly and its working bodies are represented by the President and other members of the Government. So there's no one but members of the government to represent here. I know Mr. Dejan Popovic likes to go out for this pay phone, and since he was a member of the CK Alliance of Communists of Serbia in 1990, he hasn't appeared here. If he were competent to represent this law, he would be a minister, not Djelic's deputy or assistant. We need Djelic or some other minister, including the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. There's no reason to discuss it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3087	Please like this, we have several different suggestions. First, let's see if the proposings stay on their proposals. The first proposal, you can really vote on everything here, we have this experience 10, 13 years ago, as long as it was, of course I'll put it to the vote, but I'll draw attention to what's in the Rules of Procedure and what's not in the Rules of Procedure. We have a proposal from Mr Jovanovic to represent the government at this point in the agenda, Mr Popovic, deputy minister. We have a proposal for Mr Pelevic to make a change in the order of consideration, to actually change the agenda, or order of points. Both of these proposals do not have a foothold in the Rules of Procedure. It's my duty to say that. I put both of these proposals to the vote because they don't have a foothold in the Rules of Procedure. It's possible we can take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3088	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3089	We had a proposal to continue to, in fact, open a debate in principle and continue to work, until the regular break. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3090	Mr. President, you can't put something against the Rules of Procedure or the law to vote. Only something that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or the law can be put on the vote. Here your vote should change the law, and the National Assembly can change the law, but by special procedure, not whenever anyone comes to mind. Come on, now we don't like the law, to change it by voting, it can't. You can change this law and say, next time Dejan Popovic can represent laws in the National Assembly, but to introduce it into the law, the law goes through the proper procedure, declared, published in the Official Messenger, etc. Until it is done, nothing that is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or the law cannot be put to the vote. It's enough for you to realize that there's nothing you can do about it in the Rules of Procedure, so there's nothing to vote on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3091	You really like to conduct theoretical discussions with someone who's an economist, and I can't approach you as a former professor at the University of Matter. Mr. Seselj, you're in charge of a theoretical debate here, and you know very well who decides whether something is in the Rules of Procedure or not. That's not the President of the Assembly's decision. That's what this assembly decides. So, you've been saying it in vain, I've just expressed my opinion, objected and informed, and the decision on whether or not they're contrary to the Rules of Procedure will be made by this assembly. There's a way and a procedure to determine if it's a good thing, that's another question, we can take a break about it. Mr. Jovanovic and Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3092	I will accept your interpretation, I will withdraw the proposal which was set up and which called for Article 188, and since this article has not been defined by the government in which it informs the Assembly of its representatives or trustees. I will agree with your interpretation and ask that my proposal be withdrawn, that the Assembly does not declare it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3093	Mr. Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3094	Mr. President, the Rules of Procedure are prescribed how the National Assembly works and decides. You are here, as president of the National Assembly, the first to give a certain interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. When you say it's not according to the Rules of Procedure, until someone argues, there's nothing to vote on. Only when disputes or contradictory interpretations arises. The Assembly provides authentic interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. But when you say in advance that something is not in line with the Rules of Procedure and you're all silent, no one is arguing, no different opinions, no subbolic attitudes, then there's nothing to vote on. You said, "Not according to the Rules of Procedure." No one's challenging you, everyone agrees that it wouldn't be according to the Rules of Procedure. Then what's the vote? What's the problem? Everyone doesn't think it's according to the Rules of Procedure, and most of them vote yes. You know, then it's a mockery of the National Assembly. It's enough here for no one to question you in the view that this isn't according to the Rules of Procedure, and then there's nothing to vote on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3095	To determine what we will decide, I would ask Mr Pelevic to plead...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3096	Why are you ignoring that I was at the pay phone before everyone else? Why do you have the right not to even put my proposal to the debate and vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3097	I just didn't happen to sign up. What was the suggestion?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3098	I suggested something when I went out for the pay phone. What do I look like to you?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3099	You look like an MP to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3100	I made a suggestion here, Mr. President. First of all, I said Mr. Popovic can't go out for this pay phone. Then I suggested that any member of the government come. I suppose the government can honor us with the presence of a minister who would explain the law to us. You don't hear sometimes, but only what I say about this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3101	I've heard that, but we can't decide that. We can't decide who's going to represent the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3102	We can ask the government to send a minister here to represent the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3103	That would be a suggestion of some conclusion. This should be prepared in good time as a document, sent to MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3104	You're going to put something to the vote that looks like a proposal for a conclusion, and it's not prepared?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3105	You really look like a MP to me, but this doesn't look like a proposal that can be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3106	This session doesn't look like the National Assembly either.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3107	Since there is an observation that no order of agendas can be changed under the Rules of Procedure during the session, please withdraw the proposal. Do you agree? Yeah. ) Then we just have to figure out if we're gonna have a break now. I suggest we take a break, get back to work at 2:30. In the break will be held by the Finance Committee, in the second floor hall, and by the Justice Committee, in the fifth floor salin. [[After break - 14,50]] I figure we have a quorum, and we can keep working. The fourth item of the day's work is the draft law on income tax for citizens. I have read to you what amendments you have received, that you have received amendments from the Legislative Committee and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that you have received a report from the Finance Committee. I have informed you of the proposal of the Legislative Committee on the legal technical order in Article 105, which was agreed by the committee's representative at the session. We've come to a principled search. I am opening a principled search on the proposal for a tax on citizens' income tax. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. Mr. Pelevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3108	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice-presidents, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party, I am expressing my dissatisfaction that there is no point in the agenda of the crisis in southern Serbia, as well as that there is still no discussion of the spring sowing. The Serbian Unity Party has been insisting since the beginning on these two crucial issues, and unfortunately, we do not have the support of other MPs to discuss it. First of all, the spring sowing, which obviously does not run according to plan, but the Minister of Agriculture, I am sorry that it is not there, should be more concerned with the issues of the organisation of Vojvodina and the requirement for Vojvodina to have the attributes of the state in the state with legislative, executive and judicial authority, than with what it has been chosen by the Government and by the National Assembly, agriculture, and in particular by spring set, which is why the parliamentary group of the Party of Serbian Unity will require the replacement of Agriculture Minister Dragan Veselinov. Just because he's not doing his job like he's supposed to. The request will be made for the next meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens is concerned, this law is only one in a series of tax, system law, which, according to the Serbian Unity Party, is neither reform or economic. It is not reformal because it is not based on the development of production, on the development of agriculture, on exports and on everything else that all tax laws should be based on. Employees in businesses in Serbia, who received a salary or part of the salary in bonuses or in their own productions, which is an even more frequent case, will certainly be happy with this new law, as businesses will have to pay everything in cash in the future. That's good, if it's a healthy economy and healthy businesses, who are able to do that. Also, businesses will have to pay taxes, i.e. contributions to pension, social and health insurance, even on condition and in cases where they cannot pay the salary. That's good, because taxes are paid on gross wages, it's good for the future of workers who work today, because they will have secured normal pensions in the future. The only question is whether and how they will welcome this deep age, or how they will welcome retirement, if it continues to apply such laws. The question arises, how will companies pay even wages, if before that they have to settle all contributions, if they have to settle the income tax, the income tax and all other taxes imposed on them by these laws. And we know that half of our companies are in a very difficult position. The companies are not invested in any foreign aid, which has been spoken of, which has arrived, at least $247m, but it is absolutely not seen that anything is being invested in businesses, so they are in a very difficult situation. Many companies are going to be affected by these laws and will simply have to stop working. It seems to me yesterday, in an inappropriate way, that the Minister of Work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia said that all companies that cannot pay their salaries will have to be shut down. It's all right, it's all economic legality, but what to do with people who would lose their jobs and who had even the hope that when their businesses could get on their feet. The main goal, I think, is for these tax laws to be filled, a budget that is large, which is not elastic at all, and no funds are chosen to push the money into the government's register. The only question is what will be the consequences. Half of Serbia's employees are employed in large enterprises, giants, which are on the verge of collapse. Whether the words of the labour minister should mean that these companies will be shut down and that workers will be on the street. It's over a million workers. What in that case? Whether we have social unrest or not, it will be a big concern for the government, but not just for the government, but for all of us, for all of Serbia's citizens. That's why I think these laws are really too sharp and too focused on the economy that is in a very, very difficult position. Finally, this proposal for a law on income tax did not respect certain specificities that were present in the previous Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens. Many actions, newly founded for example, are not exempt from this tax. How, then, a young man who begins to work, opens his own private store, unless he is exempt from the income tax of citizens, at least for the first three years of existence, how to justify and recover funds invested for his activity. If this is what we want to stimulate a private initiative, then this law is not really stimulating in this regard. That is why we have proposed amendments to exempt this category and other categories from that law. Since it's not time, I'll use my right, so I'll get back to you next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3109	We didn't cut time. It's 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3110	I'm sorry, I'm used to a limited discussion, and since I was disciplined, I thought it was already over. That's how much better and good it is, and since we have very important laws, Mr. Ceda Jovanovic certainly didn't think to suggest it. I'm glad you did. It is not intended to be exempt from paying taxes on the income of citizens that the obligor who has part of the foreign capital in his shop and which represents permanent capital, in the extent to which that foreign capital is invested in his shop. This is how we destimulate foreign investment in our economy, so I think it is really the opposite of what this government has declared in its pre-election campaign, and in its programme, this campaign has been under way. So unless we release the relative participation of foreign capital, then we will not stimulate foreign investors to invest in small, medium or large enterprises in Serbia. We have also foreseen these amendments and I hope that the Committee on Finance and the Serbian Government will have a bearing on this. All of this was contained in the previous law, and otherwise this law is literally copied from the previous law, by some restrictive things being thrown out and only some figures being changed. It is not intended for farmers who invest their resources in the commission to be exempt from taxes in the scope of these funds. I think we need to stimulate agricultural producers to make it possible for tax reliefs in that amount of funds they invested in the development of their land. However, this law, unfortunately, is not envisaged, and we have asked to recognise these normised costs of 20% of the rate of cadastrian income of farmers. Why does a farmer pay a 20% income tax under the new law? The same law stipulates that income tax is calculated at a tax rate of 14% for citizens. Which makes a farmer richer than a company worker who has to pay 14%. We don't think that's good, and we don't think that's protecting our agriculture. We have to remember that this country has lived from a farmer for the last ten years. If we're not in a position to respect it and if we don't respect it in this case, I think it'll come back to us with evil. Why a previous law has expelled a member who allows a private entrepreneur who has his own business in an area that has not been developed sufficiently under the republican regulations to pay the tax on a flat-rate basis, will already have a 20% rate. I don't think that's right, and we need to pay attention, especially to these small businesses and these private businesses that work, either have a shop or are doing business in Serbia's territory, which has been declared an underdeveloped area. I think these privates should be allowed to pay their taxes on a flat-rate basis. Why are they not exempt from paying taxes on maternity income, which receive income compensation during maternity leave? I don't think it's humane and it's not right, and the government had to consider it. If we want to improve the growth of birth in Serbia, then we need to do everything possible to stimulate the birth of children, so that the Serbian nation does not die out. I think it was supposed to be exempt and tax-free. However, the new legislative project is not really allowed. Also, this applies to scholarships from students and students who are limited to 1,500 dinars, and we asked for 2,000 and athletes up to 1,500, and we asked for 3,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3111	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3112	Because what's for a successful young athlete, 3,000 dinars, only 100 marks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3113	The word has a finance minister, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, honourable MPs, first I want to apologize for this delay. Obviously, I didn't want to be late for this session, but it was a meteorologically higher force. I hope you understand. As far as this law is concerned, I would like very briefly to explain why I think this proposed law is a very strong moment for our fiscal reform. I would like first to point out, before we go into this law on income tax, that, as we saw last week, there was no announced price hike storm, which was meant to take place with the introduction of a single rate of sales tax. We have seen that the three largest trading houses or have had a decrease of minus 2.56% of their total stock, which is Apple, we thank them for their contribution to the stability of prices in this country, or up to a 1% increase. I would therefore like to open this week's debate with the Law on Income Tax, and I would like to repeat that these taxes do not introduce anything drastically new in terms of the interventions of our citizens and our economy. It's simple, and with this text that we're seeing today, one thing is done, and that's the first time we've put it in the same place at the same time for all of you, and also for all of our people, to see what the interventions are, and then to start the debate, to see if it's appropriate or not. But in this law, you'll see, there's nothing drastically new about the intervention of our citizens. Does this mean that this law, which is before you and which is quite long, does not bring anything new? No, I don't. I'd just like to explain four key points here for a little while. First, that base we have today is the same, so-called. Cellular tax, i.e. taxation against all special incomes. The introduction of synthetic taxation on the income of our citizens must wait, first of all, for the transition to gross wages and the equipment of our tax administration. So we keep what was good in tax reform in the early 1990 ’ s and that lasted in such a difficult situation for the last decade. All that was good and proper in that law was actually preserved. The second thing I'd like to say is that in this law we have a very important first step towards the concept of gross earnings. I would like to say four main reasons why this transition, which is very encouraging, is for gross earnings, a very important act not only for our tax reform, not just for our economic reform, but for our future, the future of all our citizens. We have 5 key reasons for moving on to gross wages, which are: the first and key reason for moving on to gross wages is to disarm a time bomb in the heart of Serbia. It's dozens, even hundreds of thousands of our citizens who receive salaries or some money, thinking they're salaries, and they're actually untaxed types of payments: warm meals, regressions, field supplements, etc. People think they're getting paid and they're forming some wages with that kind of vision, we already have a few examples, they come in and they're looking for their pension rights, and they suddenly realize, unfortunately for them, but believe me, unfortunately for us too, that in fact their pension is not going to be accounted for by what they thought was their whole salary, which they've been seeing as a salary for 10 years, but only based on what's called a net salary. To some extent, that time bomb has been inherited for the last 15 years. She didn't live because over the last 10 or 15 years, the future has simply been sold. With this, and if you vote today and for those other texts in which there are, both social and other elements that are technically, which allow you to switch from a net to a gross salary, you will do one very deep, fair and socially positive act, with it to bring back the future to all of our citizens, that when they get some pay, when they get something called profit, they also create some rights, rights as regards the pension fund, the rights regarding the health fund. It's the first, key most important thing that makes it very important, and the whole government joins it, to support the transition to gross wages. The second reason is that in our system our citizens are not even aware of what the state is taking from them. Switching to gross wages, which allows this, in fact also transfers partial responsibility to citizens, to see what it is that the state takes from them, and not only that their employers know and what they pay on those incomes and what it is that employees pay for. We will therefore enrich this dialogue in our country, by making a decision in the future of the state, and it will be the only direction in the next months and the next years, which I am confident, to reduce some rates, this time perhaps in a different way, between the employer and the employee, in which case our employees will be able to see for themselves what the state has done for them, and that we have this richer dialogue between employers, trade unions, employees and the state. So that's another key reason for our employees, our employees, to be interested in what they pay for, what is gross wages and what is net pay. The third reason is what happened in many segments of our economic activity, which is a mass tax avoidance. These untaxed types of payments were used in many ways as tax avoidance valves. If we didn't do it before we disbursed the economy, it would mean discharging the economy that's being prepared, as you know, in the wages that will be paid in June, then we would be disbursed in an unfair way, on a jumbled terrain. Thus, in order to allow for the fair discharge of our economy, we must move on to gross wages. That's the third main reason why we should move on to them. Finally, I would like to say that the fourth thing is just as important, and the speaker before me said, about foreign investors. Believe that today we are the last country to talk about some warm meals. As deep and old habits as they may be, we are the last in Europe to count like that. Thus, in order to be more attractive to foreign capital, it is important that we have a way of calculating wages, and thus, in social relations, to have something, at least counting, that looks like the world. These are four key things and innovations, which are not only in this law, but will also be accompanied by these other laws that come, and that allow, at last, after two, unfortunately, failed attempts in the early 1990s, and then in 94 and 95, at the beginning of this decade, this millennium, to move on to this concept of gross wages, just and European concept of leading our economy. So the first thing is that this law that is before you remains on the personal taxation of various types of income. That's because we don't have an information base, although the former regime spent a lot of money on information equipment for the Republic Public Revenue Administration in nine years. Unfortunately, it wasn't brought to the end. We hope that in the next year -- the two of us will bring this job to an end, and that by next year, and at the latest in the 2003 budget, we have this synthetic income tax for citizens. And here we are last in Europe, only Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina still do not have that synthetic income tax. Everyone else brought him in. Another important act in this law is the transition to gross wages. I won't explain again why he's important. I'd like to move on to the third element, maybe a little bit more in detail, what's new about this law. First, to stimulate foreign investment, foreigners, residents, we make it easier for additional incomes covering their additional costs arising from employment in Serbia. A low rate is important for attracting foreign capital. Believe me, with these rates we have in Serbia, we are extremely competitive. With the extra disbursement that will be paid, we will become one of the most interesting countries in the form of tax policy in our environment. These rates are left, we haven't changed them because they're low, I think they're suitable for this moment, so 14% for profit and 20% for other types of income -- I think we're very attractive. We are also attractive by introducing, for those who are not residents, an additional argument to come and live in our country, to locate their incomes, and thus a large part of their activity in our country. This is what the UK is doing in the European Union, and we, Serbia, must be attractive to our competition, and our direct competition is our environment, it is Southist Europe and other countries in transition. Another novelty is that income tax relief is arranged in the way it is done in the company's profit tax. We had this discrepancy, and now it's in order. If we look at the reliefs that people have that want to invest in production, we see that we are very competitive -- competitive towards the environment, competitive and all the other countries that we are with today in a direct frontal game to attract capital and investment. What was before and what was on the paper was good, but we all know to what extent it was abused, not to repeat how many of these fake foreign investors from the Virgin Islands came in here as foreign investors, and we know where those capitals came from, because they weren't taxed when they were coming out of the country, so they came back to the country in the form of so-called. Foreign investors, so they won't be taxed again with this kind of vision. That's the end of it, and we want serious foreign investors, and for our domestic capital that's gone, there are other ways to get back. As you know, in mid-April before you will be offered a tax on extra income and extra profit. That's how this problem is solved, not in this way, and I'm not talking about that we've had a lot of abuses with some of them just opening up and closing down, so we've reopened some of the companies and thus made some tax reliefs for ourselves. It's not the right way for our country. We should, and in this law we have a very good basis for attracting foreign investors. If you look closely at the text, there is no discrimination between some foreign investors and some domestic investors. And for our diaspora, and for our domestic investors, and for foreign investors, we need to have similar and wherever possible the same conditions, to get into that game together. It's another thing that will help us attract foreign investors. The third thing, we've already talked about it a lot, indeed, we've sharpened some of the conditions. If we could see what it was about the spiders, and that's where practice has shown in the last ten years that there have been major abuses. Far from all the cobwebs misusing their status, but it has to be admitted that it was one of the main valves in our country for tax avoidance. And that's where we had to, no matter how difficult it was today, introduce some order. The honest ones, the ones who paid taxes, we contacted them, they're not afraid of this tightening at all, only those who wanted to use that valve can and should be afraid of it. However, I think there is also the fairness of a tax system, that all those who are on the cobwebs are the exception, and those who pay taxes on regular tax books are the rule. It's the reintroduction of some normality into our country and that's the justice of a tax system, here we go again and on this case we see it. I'd like to end up with two more three things. The amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and through some of the consultations we have made, membership for amateur athletes, as well as for those receiving a scholarship, are now at 3,000 dinars. So that's no longer 1,500, as was the original proposal, and that shows that we don't have any hard ideology here, but we're looking for the best solutions for our country and for the incentive of amateur sports, so we're predicting that it will be released from income tax as much as 3,000 dinars of food for our top athletes. Finally, if we look at the fines -- and that's where we sharpened to some extent. And this law must be reasonable, but it must be respected. By doing so, you will see that through this law we have sharpened those penalties, but those who pay do not feel damaged, while others for small money manage to avoid them. That concludes this brief exposure and I apologize again for the delay. So, in this law, we've preserved everything that's been good in the last ten years, which is our practice, and not the practice of another country, we've shown that it's good and it's good results. But we have introduced, which is one of the key things that we're going to talk about this week, the principle of gross wages, which is a key social act that this assembly can bring to our people this week. Finally, through various minor changes in this law, I think we've now established a base to be among the most attractive countries in our region for foreign investors. Another special law for foreign investment will come through which week, projected for May, which will further shape the matter. But that's why I want to say that, as far as this law is concerned, it's important that all taxes are respected, the fines are tightened, and some of the valves some used are closed. Thank you for your attention. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3115	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, listening to Minister Djelic, who just arrived from France, would think that we Western investors are so interesting and so attractive, as if we were somewhere on the exits of Saint Danny Street in Paris or God forbid in the Boulogne forest. But behind those sweet words of his is a dreary and cruel reality. If the DOS had managed to enter into the country six billion dollars, which he promised in the election campaign, this law would have made sense for companies to get loans, to have these loans tied to a good programme, to be obliged to return, and to be able to cope with the money, and who doesn't manage and deserves to fail. However, such a law is passed under conditions in which few of our companies do healthy business. If this law is passed, we'll have more than half a million new workers without a job at once. Why? Because a huge number of companies in our country pay workers minimum wages, so-called. Minimals, and it's messy, with big delays. The state realized that it made it easier for these companies not to fail, so that they would be completely closed, so it introduced a part of the salary deprived of any fiscal commitments to the budget. What's that part of the pay? It's so-called. A warm meal, which is now up to 1,000 dinars, city transport money and a vacation regress, which is about 4,000 dinars on an annual basis untaxed. It was something that provided workers with bread and a liter of milk per day per household member, a little, too little, but something happened. Now the government hereby abolishes and regresses for an annual vacation, lifts the hot meal stamps, abolishes and transport. How does it end? He cancels by prescribing taxes on those taxes. Those companies that couldn't even pay the minimum wage by now won't be able to buy a hot meal or regress in the future, as well as transport. Nothing's gonna work. It is not the goal of Minister Djelic to train our factories to be privatised under more favourable conditions, in order to possibly be sold to foreign investors. Its goal is to destroy all our factories, so that they are not sold as companies, as factories in the right sense of words, with employees, experts, but possibly to be sold factory halls, some remaining machine and something like that. The privatisation project was experienced by Russia, Poland, and to some extent even Hungary, with Hungary so firmly in Germany's orbit that the Germans were able to solve the bag a little bit more, that it would not have this kind of privatisation as severe as in Russia. But there, too, the factories were sold because they were turned into foreign warehouses, and the workers were out of a job. The experience met with both Romania and Bulgaria and many other Eastern European countries in the so-called transition. This practice is imposed on us by Minister Djelic. From his concept, nothing in Serbia can heal. Actually, he can. It can heal nature if people disappear. Science has proved that where people stop living, nature is rapidly healed. If Minister Djelic's goal is to keep all our meadows clean, all the rivers clean, all the mountains clean, to keep the air spotless, he will do so by this law. But there will be no Serbs in Serbia, there will be no other citizens of Serbia, because they will have nothing to live on. That's the essence of this law. This and other tax laws, which were passed in the last session of the National Assembly and which are to be passed on this one, are calculated to beat the Serbian economy, not to recover it. Some of these laws are sometimes unconstitutional. At times, the government here has set up the National Assembly to pass laws, which are not at all in the jurisdiction of the federal unit, but the federal state, but these laws are impossible to dispute before the Constitutional Court, since the Constitutional Court simply does not exist. You can laugh at the will now, but tomorrow the hungry workers, who are definitely out of work, will come before Parliament. Here in the Serbian government you have Dragan Milovanovic, a former union leader, what was called the organisation, the Association of Independent Unions of Serbia. While he was head of the union, he fought for labour rights, attacked the government, criticised, asked for more wages and regresses and a warm meal and everything else. And now that he's become a minister, he's no longer interested in workers, now he's asking for forgiveness, bankruptcy, the liquidation of all the factories, which are thus, even artificial breathing maintained in life. The easiest thing to do was to destroy that factory, to shut it down. You decided to do it. Minister Djelic taught all those sick factories, packing bags, and getting back on the plane. He's like a bird, a class in Belgrade, a class in Paris. He flies like a bird, and here the people will eat like a bird, a grain there, a grain here. It is a similarity between Minister Djelic and the people. That's why we're warning the public that these laws are devastating. You can't drain water out of dry Drenina. Our economy today is like dry drab. Of course, there are monopoly companies, which have become rich, there are private companies that have been receiving large loans from the primary show and so on. But it's too small a percentage and companies, which do successfully, mostly have very few employees. That should be in mind. Companies, whose workers live on a minimal, are usually companies with a large number of employees. There are about 500 of them, but none of them are under 1,000 employees, almost none. That's the problem. Now these workers, who at least received a monthly minimum wage, plus a hot meal, transportation, 1,500 to 2,000 dinars, won't be able to get it either, because as soon as the company has to pay the tax, it splits the total amount it can split. The company didn't avoid paying taxes, it had nothing to pay taxes on. And you're not able to, if you've brought those six billion dollars, you could say, well, everybody gets projects, everybody gets credits, so get along, whoever manages will fail, whoever doesn't manages will fail. None of these companies without credit can recover, and you have nothing to lend credit to. What's going on now? The disdain of the MPs in the O.R. You who throw, you should go out for a pay phone and cross the argument. It's the easiest thing to do and not know. You, who don't know anything, just throw it away. Here, the DOS woman's network has rebelled, and here's Minister Batic's associate is spreading the name of me to assign every lover's apartment, so if there's one without an apartment, let him report freely, make a list I've got another 400 or 500 apartments to share, so let's see. [[Laughter in O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Zante, I often joke around here, but here the devil took the joke. There's not much room for a joke here, because the economy is going down completely. And one more thing. When the government is elected here, the Prime Minister has potentiated three or four companies that bother him the most. One of them was Delta. Here, just before he was kidnapped, the owner of that company, Miskovic. I'm calling on Mr. Kasu as Deputy Prime Minister for Security to explain to us what's going on here. The Prime Minister calls someone and suddenly they're gone. Now maybe Karic will disappear, there's a lot of them, so one by one, or you'll all suddenly, I don't know. Can you get more Karic in that van of yours, then who's next? I have no reason to defend either, nor the other, nor the third, but this isn't funny. Not only do the same things happen before, it's much harder and much worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3116	He has the word Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3117	Just two three-things. But as far as dry drenina is concerned, those who have run the last 10 years must explain to us why our economy is in this state. Secondly, those with whom 150 - 200,000 people have been preparing a disaster for 10 - 15 years, with their pension not being prepared, must explain why. [[Applause]] Those who want us to continue to rule as they ruled by the system - close your eyes, so it will pass, it can't, it can't do this anymore. We have to face problems, and there are many in our country and in our economy. We need to put things on the right, healthy foundations and build on it. It can't be built in one system, where there are so many people who are betrayed and don't know, because any government in any year, if we don't leave anything behind, we leave it all on this mold, one of two things will happen: or such a social rebellion, which will destroy everything in front of it, any government, or, if at that moment, any government, any one, backs a new, third hyperinflation in our history, because some money will be printed for some pensions or some health benefits, for which it hasn't been paid off. I don't want anyone to fall for any demagogy. This is the opening of the eyes, this is helping people eventually find a future for themselves. You can't suddenly get out of a very difficult situation, but this puts things on a healthy footing. By the way, not only do we move on to gross coats, but the government through the rationalization of the administration, and savings and various other measures found places, but in those salaries that will be paid in June. That's what we've been talking about. Let me do it again today. In the first gross salary, so the one that gets paid in June, we'll do two things. For everything that goes into the salary bill this time, which is a warm meal, a regression, a field supplement, it will be taxed, but at smaller rates. We are now calculating and guaranteeing that neither workers nor employers will be lost in this, because the rates will be proportionally reduced. Therefore, in the first gross salary, we are going to further disbursement our employers, because we also think it is very important that our workforce must be not too expensive, so that our businesses can continue to maintain their workforce and that they can continue to operate. So there's going to be an extra discharge of about 8 to 10%, and then we'll see, and all of our citizens will see that those 105% on 100 dinars that are being talked about, just by expanding the base of gross wages, it'll be seen that already today, when you add everything together, and contributions and taxes, in fact, between 75 and 80% and additional discharge, I hope it's going to be around 70%, and hopefully even below that. Now, that's what this government is going to do, not just build a future for our workers, but it's going to be able to dissipate the economy and give an extra boost in everything for our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3118	Second call, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3119	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it surprises me that Minister Djelic is asking a question and asking for an explanation from those who have been guilty for the past 10 or 50 years or who knows how many. Those who are guilty of the current situation in the economy, they responded in September's elections and therefore fell out of power. Now you're here and now it's part of your promised six billion dollars, it's foreign aid, American aid. There's nothing out of that money. You've had your eye on two things. You've had your eye on a warm meal, which so far has been completely untaxed, and you've had your eye on the regress for an annual vacation. You'd make a small amount of money to steal, to strike, to fill the budget, and the result will be that no one will pay for a warm meal anymore and no one will pay for the regression when your law comes into force. That's the point. When you couldn't give up that one grand per employee, so you say, well, we won't tax those thousands of dinars of hot meal, let anyone who can pay it, and then we'll tax the rest. You want everything, you take it black under your fingernails. That's the point. Why didn't you leave those thousands of dinars untaxed, and that's because it's your only chance to catch something. When you grab it, it won't happen either. Why not, let the minister answer, was it so difficult to leave a hot meal item without taxes and contributions? You think someone for this four thousand dinar regression is going on a vacation. No, you're flying around Greece, Tunisia and who knows where you're flying. You're not going from that regression to the summer. Yeah, you're not going. I didn't go to Iraq for a vacation, I went to work. Next time, I can take one of the DOS women's networks, 'cause there's blondes at the price. You're a blonde, too. Where you don't even give a chance... Alexandra, is something funny? I didn't hear what was funny. The DOS still has a problem with the offensive, and since there's no arguments, there's a laugh, and I'm comfortable with laughter, but don't include that time. It should be explained by the minister. Why does that last grand have to be taxed, why does that annual vacation regress of four thousand a year have to be taxed? The minister's showing again, he says - he won't be after retirement. If all your social programme is to restore the pension fund by taxing a warm meal and taxing the regress for your vacation, then there's nothing from your pension fund. If you are not otherwise able to fill the pension fund of the Minister, perhaps even that deputy or assistant Dejan Popovic has not informed you, but he has created here the economic and financial policy that you are now attacking, as a prominent official of the Union of Communists, and after the Socialist Party expert, so contact him for the mistakes of the previous period, and if you are not informed, the total mass of pensions is 15% higher than the total mass of salaries, so if you think that contributions and taxes can be paid by pensions, then you make a terrible mistake. You're an uninformed man. There's no possibility of any. . . What, the women's net is up again? I've got all the apartments you need, just take it easy. If you think it's possible for these taxes to collect enough money, pay taxes, a warm meal, a regress, to pay their pensions on a regular basis, then you're making a terrible mistake. It's not possible to pay out of that pension, not even for the past 7.8 years. Only 700, 800 million marks from Telecom's sale went to a pension fund. That's all. That's what Dusan Mihajlovic was selling, he was in the Serbian government at the time, and I was in opposition. Don't pin it on me, I've got enough of what I'm guilty of. Don't give me what I didn't. I'm one of the culprits that you DOSs came to power, I wasn't convincing enough to explain to the people who you are and who you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3120	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Mr. Ivkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3121	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister, a man who listens to you is beginning to believe that you don't even know what's been going on in this country for the last eight years. For your information, this country was under a terrible embargo, and all cash transactions were cut off, oil imports were disabled and certain that many of the solutions that were present were necessarily evil in order for this people to survive at all. However, even in such a difficult time, even after the bombing, this economy has done much better than it does today, Mr. Minister. Here, the Prime Minister admitted that today only 25% of the economic capacity is operating, compared to a comparative analysis with September 2000. I would very much like to talk to you here about comparative analyses, what she was doing in Serbia's economy in September 2000, and what she's doing today. I want to tell you, this is just the consequence of your desire to make three or more times the budget for 2001, rather than for 2000. Those 20 billion, invested in rebuilding the country and reconstruction, don't count them in the budget, you don't carry out that reconstruction and reconstruction this year. So, in a quantitative sense, your budget is three and a half times higher than your budget in 2000, and unfortunately, social benefits, and when a man listens to you, I'd think that you and the Socialists and you and the government, as much as you stand for social activity, for education, for health care, and there's not a three-and-a-half increase in budget, but it's far less increased. Where you planned these funds, you know it best, and when you look at 19.2 billion dinars directly managed by you and your fellow energy and traffic ministers. One thing you know, metal-processing industry and construction can't stand your proposal that you made here. This is a country where there must be a way to increase social benefits compared to personal incomes. You tax the regress, the warm meal, the field supplements, you tax even the costs of transport over 800 dinars. Please, these companies in the field of construction and metal - the processing industry will not be able to withstand it. You'd better do a budget rebalance, you better cut the budget, and you'd better create space not to tax these things that I've just said. Over a year or two, when the economy is stabilised, when the economy starts producing and providing personal income, then think about integrity. I welcome this idea that gross personal income everywhere in Europe, and it should also be here, so observed as gross personal income. We all had someone or worked outside, and we know what gross personal income means. You're right there, but this economy only a year after the sanctions, an economy whose 18% of the economic capacity is destroyed by aggression, an economy that doesn't operate, can't stand it. Leave that part of social justice, leave that part of solidarity, that way that companies that are on the verge of existence can survive, stand on their feet, start to work, and then introduce in a year or two years, something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3122	The first registered MP is Jovan Deretic, followed by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3123	Dear Mr. President, dear fellow MPs, we have a new draft law on income tax for citizens who do not actually differ by any other five tax laws. It is seen immediately that the Serbian government either will not understand or is unable to understand how the people of Serbia live today, which is still being caught up in it. Here's a few examples. The tax rate on profits is 14%. If average wages in Serbia were 1,000 marks a month, it would be quite all right, but the average salary in Serbia is slightly above 100 marks a month and this is a deadlyly high tax rate. There are here and there are no taxes in any Western country. These are some specialities of the Serbian government, such as inheritance and gift tax, even on the smallest gift, some dolls for children. The arms tax expresses the Serbian government's fear that the people possessed weapons, so it taxed even the trophy weapons, to disarm the people by tax, not only the people with manifestations and whistles. Tax on financial transactions and income tax is one speciality where the Serbian government has found a way to double tax the same thing. These taxes will quell this economy of ours that can barely breathe and throw hundreds of thousands of workers into the streets. Secondly, the taxes for agricultural producers are so high, they really won't be able to handle this tax. The government is unable to predict any economic plan for the country's recovery, neither the start of economy nor production, but it is incredibly capable of cutting taxes. We believe, the Party of Serbian Progress, that the only solution for Serbia is that this government resigns as a whole, in order for Serbia to get a new government, more capable than this and the government that will take care of the citizens of Serbia and their lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3124	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic, and then by MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, listening to Mr. Djelic's presentation, and as a private entrepreneur for over 20 years, I think this law that he has proposed should wait at least 2-3 years. Why? The only hole in the law used by factory directors to somehow pay off some low wages was over a warm meal and a regression. This law can be applied when storerooms are filled with repromation and when warehouses are filled with finished products, and for that we have to wait at least a year to two days. I guarantee you that after a month, or since June, when this law comes into force, at least 700,000 out of a million workers will be out of work and the directors will have no place to pay them. The Serbian Unity Party has also requested over its 40 amendments, and I will mention only a few, that according to bonds that do not comply with its obligations, a daily rate of 0.2% of the debt interest to the state, and this government did not, and this government did not, either, today or today, that all those bonds asking the state, whether it was through agriculture that they handed over their agricultural product, and did not charge them, whether it was over pensions that were also three or four months late, over a paid child's allowance, that all those asking the state, that the state did not charge them interest, because they are subject to this law of rigorous collection and so-called kidnapping of property debtors. The Serbian Unity Party also asked for a reduction in the agricultural tax rate from 20% to 10%. Why? Because the agricultural producer has a once-a-year palm tree and that the product of the agricultural producer does not follow the rate of growth of prices to a small extent. As was the preceding period, so is today. The Minister of Agriculture is not here with us today. Before his appointment (as Minister for Agriculture) he promised it three and a half months ago that the price of grain would be 11 dinars, to say 15 days ago that the price of grain is 9 dinars. Agricultural producers say that for the simple reproduction of today, the price of cereals should be at least 12 dinars. Also, farmers who guard cattle cannot receive a single annual salary, nor can they renew a simple reproduction. The Serbian Unity Party has asked that the flat-rate, proposed by the government, or the minister, be of three million dinars, because we believe that 3,300 dinars per day for one taxpayer who is very small in the group, given that each co-editionist has between one and three workers. Mr. Minister also said that drastic price growth could not be seen these days. He also saw himself on that very layer of the poorest population. The price of tickets in urban traffic has been increased by 100%. If the electricity, one of the impulses in production, left for April 60% so that the price of the product will not be increased and how will it remain the same? If we know that every month, a percentage of the rise in electricity prices will be determined. The Serbian Unity Party has also asked for the oil that has come to be directed for agricultural producers. Mr. Agriculture Minister said the oil will be divided 40 liters per hectare, and no longer divided by 20 liters per hectare. It's also a direct hit with 20% on the agricultural producer, if the government hasn't given him anything and if we still remind ourselves that this oil came as humanitarian aid and that we've charged it to our agricultural producers. I must say that several amendments, proposed by the Soviets, were rejected by the government, so that's the number we've proposed as if the government had suggested. May the government not be ashamed if something is suggested by the Soviet Union and if it is of benefit to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3126	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3127	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've heard our flyer, Mr. Minister. I've been trying to determine these days whether he's a resident of the Republic of Serbia, whether he's being taxed on the income of citizens and I haven't been able to establish, doesn't fit into this law at all, except maybe in Article 19(3), which says he has the right to tax exemption if he comes to a job that won't last more than three years. I guarantee you that, Mr. Secretary. The way you started, the way you got involved and the gang you got into breaking up Serbia, this job of yours won't last three years. (Glasses - warning. Remind me as much as you want. Just to remind you that today we are not talking about the global failure of DOS, or the problem of international blackmail and behaviour towards your authority, or the platform adopted at the Vojvodina Assembly and DOS divisions on that basis. Today we are not talking about southern Serbia, today we are not talking about the increasingly difficult life within Serbia, today we are not talking about increasing perspective, today we are not talking about promised incredits from international banking institutions, global, or regional economic institutions and integration. Today we're not talking about donations, today we're not talking about gold negotiations in Basel, which you've accelerated by a terrible procedure just to get to some money as soon as possible. Today we're not talking about promised reforms, today we're not even talking about stopping privatisation, today we're not talking about how much the budget increases affect prices, today we're not talking about the inflation that's at our door. We are talking today about a package of tax laws that you have been announcing for days on state television and on all the media, praising them as something new that has entered Serbia, which we Serbian citizens, so primitively and lagging behind, could not have imagined that it exists. And when we read your laws, Mr. Minister, we find only changes in digits and changes in order within the law, so we don't accidentally realize that this law hasn't actually been changed at all. What's new in this law, except for the things we're attacking you for today, not because it's like an opposition job, but because we're concerned if the workers will experience the fate their minister announced for their work and said - who doesn't pay the salary will shut down the company and the state will take care of the workers who are out of work. And who's going to pay the workers who lose their jobs if you close the business? We'll drink that whiskey that's cheaper now than it was until you came to power. We'll smoke so much foreign cigarettes, drink whiskey, we'll settle all taxes. Someone here is going to smoke, I just think you're getting into something that...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3128	Mr. Nikolic, please be careful in the way you express yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3129	And what did I say? Minister Batic realized that I'm talking right, about cigarettes, right. Of course, Mr. Batic. What's this all about? You're saying -- they've ruined the country so far, they've made it possible... Not two types, several kinds of payouts without income tax. You as smart, educated people, you, Mr. Minister, as a man who has already pulled several states out of the economic bottom, you say -- now we're going to get Serbia out of all the economic crises it's been in. We're going to tax a hot meal, a vacation regress, and we're not going to tax food on the official trip, which I don't understand at all. Well, you're saying that an official worker can feed on 600 dinars without a citizen's income tax, and a worker who wants to eat lunch in a factory circle can't eat 1,000 dinars a month without a citizen's income tax. And everything in a circle like that. New taxes on catastrian incomes, new taxes on anything that moves. You're saying now that the contributions are going to be about 70-80% on net earnings, and when you're turning the net into gross, you're multiplying somewhere even by three. How we get to the base of taxation, which may be 70% higher than it's ever been before. But when you adopt a budget, which with a federal budget and everything we need to finance is certainly nine million marks, then you have to follow the laws to provide income for that budget. I understand that, but from where, Mr. Minister? Is there another country in a world where the economy doesn't work at all? Is there another country in a world that's never been so badly sown as ours this year? Which could... Yes, yes, it knows Zechariah well... which could withstand this kind of budget. You know, you put some data into the computer. You're looking at it strictly monetaryally. You're not tied to this country. Don't tell us about our crises. Whoever is to blame for them will answer. Whoever put up with them was gone. Whoever put up with them is here, but you have nothing to do with these crises. So you fall from Mars to accuse us here of our crises. You're telling me, Mr. Minister, that we've been falling asleep for 10 years. Where have you been for 10 years? The ones who took us down on our shoulders. What were you doing there, Mr. Minister? Co-operated with them, Mr. Minister. Don't tell me he went to school. What kind of minister did he go to school a few years ago? It's just a matter of work. I think the minister can teach high school, not finish high school and come to be a minister. You taught him quite well to speak for this speaker. The minister learned from books what a modern state should look like, but the ministers -- this is Serbia. In this Serbia, you say, you will tax a warm meal and a regress for an annual vacation. I'm telling you, it won't be paid anymore. You're saying, "I've been cut off." It's the workers... that's why he retired. No, they knew it was free of all giving, they knew it wasn't going into retirement ground. Now these payments won't be made. Why would they pay if it was the same price as the price of a profit, so why wouldn't it all be a profit now? What about social motives? What about our workers who otherwise cannot eat? What about those who took part in a warm meal home to feed the children? Is it all our fault that we have lived here in Serbia or is it the fault and those you have lived with, so now it's nice - bring down our economy. We will not vote for those you help. Bomb us, we won't vote for those who help you. It's been a year, it really comes to an unsustainable state, power changes, and now all of you who have influenced this state of ours to come and teach us how to live and work. Why did you interfere with us 10 years ago? To make this state look like all those mentors of yours, your financials, where you're resident for tax pay, didn't interfere with our internal lives. There wouldn't be this much hatred between us. He sees, there is one messenger on one side who cannot go out for a pay phone without being hated by others. What do you care? You were late for your session this morning because of the fog. It didn't occur to you, Minister, as our MPs, that you would come here last night to arrive on time for the session. No, you 250 MPs will be waiting for you to land from France at the Paris airport. I'm telling you, whoever's in power needs to be buried in this country, to stay there. No travellers, no visiting ministers. There's no visiting authority. And for those of you who are not prepared at all for the sittings, for those of you who would not know half of the laws to state, which are on the agenda today, I am again giving you a word of advice to the vast majority of DOS MPs - so far you have not been known in the streets, and now they will know you. So far, others have been to blame for their difficult and bad economic and social situation. Now that guilt is moving on to you, think about it. On these prices, which Mr. Minister has convinced that from a minus 2.56 to a plus one increase in prices. Well, Minister, in the morning, go to the store with the land, bring 100 dinars today, bring 100 dinars tomorrow to see how the earth shrinks. Don't trust the merchants, especially the director (is there Slobodan Radulović), which you believe Slobodan Radulovic, he sells sugar from donations, and our domestic sugar is failing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3130	Mr. President, MP Tomislav Nikolic has injured Article 101. Rules of Procedure. Member of the 99th says that the MP cannot say offensive words for this speaker, and MP Nikolic did so, absolutely respecting the right to criticise the government, to criticise our MPs from the DOS, to criticise the state of the country, absolutely has the right to do so, but has no right from this pay phone to express offensive words and to say that he has joined the gang that is breaking up this country. I have intervened and warned you, Mr. President, you have missed the opportunity to give notice to the MP in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It's time to eliminate from this pay phone insults, insults, incorrect relationships with each other. Take a look at the small parliament of Republika Srpska, the parliament of Montenegro, the parliament of Croatia, and you will see them struggle hard among themselves, but in a dignified and cultural way. Let's do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3131	I accept your objection, at one point I was wrong, I really didn't accept it, believing that the public knew where the gang was and that there was no need. I accept your objection. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3132	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the legislator of the income tax laws provides for rates that are very high, that citizens will not be able to bear them as an imposition of this kind, given everything they have to pay through sales taxes, excise taxes, taxes on services and other expenditures related to budget laws. This bill covers all revenues, with high and unacceptable rates, as the proposaler failed to look at the overall purchasing power of our citizens, in a way that would encourage work and production, as well as profits, as opposed to the feeling that the Serbian government only cares about filling the budget, neglecting the most important effects of development and production. As a particular problem here I see a way of taxing earnings, in which the base of the income tax includes, besides pay, all additional incomes, such as -- regress, warm meal, field supplement, overtime, work during national holidays, night work, etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government would have to come to their senses. In our people a mother said to her son, "Son, if you lack a hat, I would buy you a hat, but your son is missing something under your hat, and I can't buy it for you, because you can't buy your mind." I think the government would have to bear in mind the circumstances that a large number of small and private enterprises will be forced to fire workers. There will be no large number of private workers, who will be able to keep those workers who are currently working with private workers and I am afraid that workers, Mr. Minister, will come into the situation that the employer will fire many, or will be in a situation that they will not be able to pay their profits, will be forced to pay them based on income tax. That's why I don't think this law, at this point and at this time, will find its application in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3133	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3134	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to speak with a few words to Mr. Minister - Mr. Minister, whenever I discussed, I made a concrete proposal. As far as the agricultural tax is concerned, it has increased from 100 to 110 times. So farmers, farmers who paid taxes, should count from 100 to 110 percent of the tax hike. I'm going to give you one example -- in the grain municipality, the aggregate tax was 93.21 percent, and this year it's going to be 185.63. The land rate remained 12 per cent, however, the water industry went to 155 per cent. This law provides for many penalties, fines on real estate, penalties on movable property. Does this mean that our peasant will be taking away tractors, trailers, or land? This law has 180 members, and 60 members are only about penalties, charges, seductions, sales of moving goods and forced collection. It's even given the opportunity to do it at night. As for small companies and small businesses, I find them in a difficult position. Those small companies won't be able to pay a good deal of personal income. The possibility given to them for a warm meal and a regression has been lifted. Namely, what awaits them now, which taxes - salary tax, warm meal, field supplement and regression. There are construction firms, and my firm is a construction company, where 60-70 percent of people work in the field, where we have transportation, so that's what we have to pay taxes on. Is there a tax to be paid on night labor? I haven't found that here yet. In fact, technical improvements and patents are being taxed. Technical improvements and patents can only be taxed when in practice, in the economy, they prove to have a promotion, that they have profit, that the product is faster off the tape than it has ever been before. I believe that this taxation could only come after 5 or 10 years, when it is determined in the very process of production that technical improvement or patent has been proven in practice. I think this law is the most burdened by medium and small enterprises, especially agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3135	Before I give my word to Parliamentarian Ljubisa Djokovic, I would like to inform you that you have accepted Dr Sinishi Popovic's resignation as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the consideration of this resignation with the proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88(2), and paragraphs 2 and 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the mandate of MP Dr Sinisha Popovic, on the day of his resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. On a proposal from the Administrative Board, the National Assembly finds that the term of office ended before the time it was elected, the MP Dr Sinisha Popovic, and was elected from the election list SPS - Slobodan Milosevic on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. In addition, since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish a mandate in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for vacant seats and to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, to fill the seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Committee, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the Members of Parliament were met, with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate for MPs elected from the DOS list by Dr Vojislav Kostunica, and that, Ljubisi Kesic, Prof. Dr. Milan Radulovic and Miomir Tadic. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs Ljubisa Kesic, Prof. Dr. Milan Radulovic and Miomir Tadic. And to whom I also congratulate you on your choice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3136	By working as you suggested, and we're in the process of considering one item of the agenda, and now we can't do that. It can be done when we adopt this item of the agenda, if we really want to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Then we'll be a thousand times in the middle of some agenda, doing something third. When we absorb this item of the agenda, then the Assembly can determine, because we are now in debate, and, Mr. Seselj, if we were to strictly interpret the Rules of Procedure, this is not even on the agenda. So we started one item on the agenda, and it's time to at least finish it, so then, that's half an hour, an hour, so at least we stick to the formalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3137	This is not part of the agenda, and it can't even be on the agenda. This is just information and a finding at the moment when you received it, I have found for the efficiency of the work and that MPs, whose mandate has been confirmed, can be informed that they are attending tomorrow's session. Nothing further than that. The spirit or the letter of the Rules of Procedure has not been broken, if you think it is, tell me which member, so let's see what it is. Do you agree? Thank you. The People's MP Ljubisa Djokovic has the word, followed by the MP Milorad Mircic. Since the MP Ljubisa Djokovic is not there, the People's MP Milorad Mircic has the word, followed by MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3138	First of all, I'd like to ask Mr. Minister, where you're so cheaply getting food, after these tax laws, to tell all of us, to go, to take advantage of that convenience. Mr. Minister, if you've been deceived, you can't deceive the public anymore, the people are going to the markets, the people are going to the shops, the people are buying, the people are buying, the people are after the laws you've proposed, much more expensive pay for basic food. The fact that she's cheaped the washing machine, the fact that they've cheaped the import cigarettes, don't throw the dust in your eyes, Mr. Minister. What's hard to admit? Or maybe you're in a fight with that governor of the National Bank, and his name is Dinkic. He openly states in public that your proposals for fiscal laws have been given an inflation and that the NBJ has to react quickly with reserves, of course foreign reserves, and to prevent the possibility of greater inflation. Of course, he's just like you. He offers us the opportunity to buy import cars for war, which lasts three to four years. You can imagine what a joy it is and what a privilege it is for a people and a nation, which is barely held at the edge of existence. However, since the law was proposed by the government, it is clear that essentially all tax rates have been detained, but the basis has been increased. Based on the tax on income, citizens are now entering those items that they were not before, which are, as we Serbian radicals of the DOS gentlemen met you, because you obviously do not read this material, regress, add-on for a warm meal, and that is the addition to the terrain, i.e. for transport. What you wanted, Mr. Minister, to say, that the economic situation is favourable in Serbia, that it is an economic climate and that it is extremely favourable, so that you can, with these tax rates, which you say in the European frameworks, add to the burden of such a weak economy. Imagine the consequences, except that they will not receive wages, except that many workers will be fired, you will increase the number of social cases, which these days or in the past as much as they have received a church. You will now bring them to the employment desk, you will bring them into order in folk cuisine, you will share their food, you will be the humanists who take care of the workers. It would have been better, Minister, if you had looked at the real situation, the economic situation, the situation in the economy, the situation in Serbia at all, and then, based on the real situation, you were proposing laws, or legal rates. Simplified to say, to you from DOS Corporation, since you understand it best when a man simples you, although you will not admit, that hypothetically assume Nikola Tesla is alive, he would pay a bigger tax than Nice Bren and a bigger tax than Zoran Djindjic. Here's how, under these laws, he would only be granted five years of thinking for his inventions. Because you're so prognosticated by this law that a man has the right to enjoy compensation for his inventions, only for five years. Secondly, Leprechaun Brena, meanwhile, would, according to the minister's decision, which has the authority to decide on the frequency of its public appearances, from its sale of audio carriers, and according to the ministerial criteria, it would acquire large capital. Which is why Nikola Tesla would pay more taxes than Zoran Djindjic. On a number of grounds. First, because all of us and you, as well as the DOS, know that he invested his brains, intelligence to invent something. Zoran Djindjic got bigger money, and neither was he smart nor invested intelligence, and he got Bambi. For that reward he won in Germany, for loyalty and loyalty, there's no record of him paying, as a resident, tax. Secondly, one part of its tax obligations pays in another federal unit for what it owns, which is sailing the Adriatic Sea, which is under Montenegro's authority, or Milo Djukanovic, Djindjic has not yet delivered a certificate. It wouldn't be a problem for him to deliver a certificate, of course a fake, because seven years ago he said he was so skilled in counterfeiting that he forged a driving ticket in Germany. Imagine what kind of counterfeiter it is when the Germans are fooled by a fake. (President: Mr Mircic, we are talking about a bill on income tax for citizens. Yes, but I'm just simplifying, Mr. President, to make us understand. I understand that you DSS read some laws. (President: You're too simple, Mr. Mircic.) ) After all, that's why you're separated from these. They don't read anything. Mr. Minister, you might want to come out now and say that you have accepted some amendments or amendments proposed by the SRS. The crown will not fall from your head, which the people say, if you admit that you have at least used some clever idea, at least some realistic or optimal solution in the bill of your own. If you boast that this is all your solution, to cover up what you've taken over from the board in the meantime and as a government, as an amendment from the SRS, it won't help you so much to wash yourself in front of the people, which, gentlemen, you wanted it or not, but it's getting harder and harder to live. After all, you see the mood and how this policy of yours has been accepted by the people. The best part of the break was explained by the president of the assembly. You went to local elections in the Odjak municipality separately, the DSS especially from DOS. The DSS beat you. That's the reputation you enjoy from DOS, and the DSS uses a little more credit. If you don't dump these autonomists and these incompetent ministers... (President: Mr Mircic, move on to the agenda topic. What's the matter, Mr. President, aren't the results correct? Tell me how much you won. Mr. President, did I not say that correctly? (President: Mr Mircic, we do not analyse the results of the additional elections, which I am pleased with, but you talk about the bill, most kindly please. ) What do you think the results of the local elections in this municipality are part of your popularity? No, gentlemen, it's what you brought. Imagine the popularity you've had since October 5th. For what? Because you have passed such laws, which make life even more difficult for the people. That's why I'm giving you this as an example. After all, you are the easiest to understand when an example is given to you. I know you won't admit it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3139	The People's MP Miroljub Veljkovic has the word, followed by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3140	Mr. President, I don't understand, if you've already combined a discussion on a package of tax laws, how come you've singled this law out of a package of tax laws? For example, in a package of tax laws, you added the Houses Act. I'm interested in what expert suggested it? I suppose it's the Secretary of Parliament. That's the only way to come from him. Minister Djelic said earlier that there is nothing new, radically new, in this law on income tax for citizens. That's right. The law is mostly prescribed, so compared to the solution we've had so far. However, what little is new in that law is disastrous, Mr. Djelic. The bill is bad and is directly due to the 2001 wasteful budget, which DOS MPs supported and adopted at a previous meeting of the National Assembly. So you first adopted such a budget at the last meeting of the National Assembly. Normally, now you have to fill that and that budget. How to load? Over the back of the people. You say in writing, in this draft law, that the basic headings in the area of taxation on the income of citizens are: firstly, the full affirmation of the gross earnings system, as the basis of the tax. You're praising it, just now, as a good solution. You say it's the right thing to do. However, I must warn you, professional public, trade unions and all employees claim that this is a bad solution. You tax employees: a warm meal, a regress, official travel, student scholarships and students, food suppliers. You're simply taxing people everything. You government gentlemen don't have a soul. Then, by this law, you malts end the flat tax. You intend to make small craftsmen form entire accounting sectors. In real life, there's no standoff. Well, you're not gonna let a man who sells burgers on the street have a head of accounting in his shop, are you? Imagine the tailor, the shoemaker, the shoe shop, the tailor shop, how to deal with periodic calculations, final accounts, etc. Furthermore, you hereby abolish all tax reliefs for small businesses, or people who live out of self-employment. You're going to close these small firms with this law. I don't know if Minister Djelic knows how many people live off these activities today in Serbia? All countries in the world are promoting such actions through a variety of tax reliefs, because it is a sector that employs many people. You know what a Japanese has done, say in this small sector, not to speak even that France, where Minister Djelic comes from, etc. We're about to close down these activities with these tax solutions. They're so-called family, family companies. So it employs two to three people, so people in the family and eventually, one to two workers. With tax solutions like this, we'll close those stores. You're doing the opposite of what you were taught in France, Mr. Djelic. You say you're starting tax reform. This is what we adopted in last session, that set of tax laws, and what we're about to adopt with the support of this silent majority of DOS, it's a real Turkish harrass, from that time of the Ottoman Empire. Dear MPs, we will try to amend the amendments to the government's proposal. I hope your mind will prevail. Don't adopt something he won't be able to live. It's just that a people of this kind won't be able to pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3141	The People's MP Goran Cvetanovic has the word, followed by the MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3142	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really do have an understanding for the Minister of Finance who was late, because I suppose he probably went to pay income tax in Paris, so his delay is justified. But there is really no excuse for bringing it out to the public that since the new tax laws came into force, the increase in retail prices and wholesale sales is only 1%. The minister was probably out of the country the whole time, so he's not in progress. Under the new law, proposed by the minister, those who have not yet paid their workers' salaries are likely to go bankrupt. Apparently, the state will assume an obligation to provide workers, possibly to provide them with a job or retraining, to find employment and get incomes from which they could later live. The employer is obliged to make payments, even if the payments are not paid. The main objective of this new DOS tax package and the spending of money in the government register are high budget expenditures, unelastically inflexible. As a result, no funds are chosen to make money, and no consideration is given to the consequences of such conduct. Economic opportunities are getting worse and worse, as the government is not doing anything that large businesses, where more than 50% of the employees in Serbia are employed, are starting to produce, so I'm afraid the new government will soon start printing money. We need to know the tax compensation is currently being paid to 47,393 workers who have lost their jobs and are expected to receive a larger inflow of workers who will be declared unemployed for an advanced period of time. The paper is to propose that the suspension of the provisions under which workers, who came to the Bureau after 30 years of work or internships, could receive early retirement or new employment, and now have the right to do so only 24 months. I ask the question - which company will the workers who already have a year or two until retirement accept? In the end, I would just say that an employer, under these new tax laws, could be imposed even a ban on doing business within 60 to 90 days if he did not pay the minimum wage. I'd ask a practical question -- in case a 90-day ban is allowed, that's three months, what about food products during that time period, because there's gotta be a change in organoleptic properties, or, say, if it's a textile industry, if the winter period is to be banned for three months, in those three months, the season changes, so the goods can't be interesting for the market anymore? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3143	I suppose the lady thinks that Patriarch Serbian, Mr. Paul, will send a letter to Orthodox believers for the other day for our greatest Christian holiday, and as far as I'm concerned, I am an MP in the National Assembly, Natasa Jovanovic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the tax system that you are proposing as a model for European standards, to what is prescribed by the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and all those organisations that you expect to help, which will not reach our country, should be such that it is reconstructed in the right sense of words, that from citizens and from businesses, real tax rates, it will affect what citizens are able, after almost 10 years of sanctions, and the economy as it is, will pay and imply that such real procedures from citizens and from the economy will enable the achievement of incomes that will be distributed in the most proper way and stabilised legislation. As Serbian Radical Party MPs have said before me about this proposed law on income tax, you have essentially changed nothing in legislation, except that you have increased tax rates and, as you say, you have affirmed a gross profit system, which will be charged with a 14% tax. Even a month ago, when the first news about these famous tax laws was leaked to the public, indeed many workers, almost all workers and all employees in our country, regardless of whether they are in a situation of how much they produce, whether they work in the state administration, etc. or those who have been on the unpaid, or paid leave for years and who are concerned about their existence, will ask how long it will bring us and what will happen to the mere survival of themselves and their family members, who could just as well have some of their life supplies to obtain through a cash compensation for a warm meal, or to use money for public transport, or money that is foreseen in a certain amount for an annual regress, which they could not use for their vacation and their families. Minister Djelic also promised many things to his Western dictionaries -- as you praise him and once upon a time, Prime Minister Djindjic himself said -- that he was a pure genius -- tried to explain, using, above all, the state's "association", and then all the other media, giving various interviews to the newspaper, that nothing would be scary, that it was no blow to the population's pocket, and in fact you should have said, Mr Minister, and 15 days ago, when in this assembly MPs from yours, according to counterpart Mircic, the DOS interest group adopted a sales tax of 17% and excise duty, that these further packages of tax laws, which in the second part of the debate would be said, prepare another robbery of citizens. You're saying it's not a high rate and that it's going to be better for the citizens anyway. You remind me of Mr. Maric, who says in a memo about someone who is damaged and who is denied rights, he will be better off. How will it be better for employees if you go to tax a warm meal, tax a regress, and companies are required under the law to pay the government first, and then, if they can, the employer does not strictly commit to paying the employees. You were talking about some time bomb. I really don't know what kind of bombs and explosives you're an expert on. I assume you understand that when you use that termology. But when I say "temporary social bomb," first of all, I think of those cities in Serbia where tens of thousands of people are unemployed, working with minimum compensation, and those working in an industrial and metal complex that all these 10 years, even though they received, under conditions of unprecedented sanctions and blockades, profits that could be paid and survived by getting that warm meal in cash every month. You're saying that they'll be better off because it'll be a better basis for calculating their pensions, you who've promised a lot of things, first of all 6 billion, as soon as they've received you in the "hug" and the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, how they'll come here without knowing how much credit, how our economy will recover, you should have come out with a concrete proposal on how to reform our pension fund, how to make pensions even more regular and to be bigger, and not to promise citizens that their future will be safer and better because they get a warm meal and regress. It seems to me, and obviously it is from the behaviour of all MPs from DOS and all ministers who are in exile, exile, because they are not here at all, except you who have landed with Orli right in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that you have no ear for what is happening and that you have forgotten the circumstances and conditions under which you have come to power. I will always use this pay phone, like all MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, to remind you under what conditions and under what circumstances you came to power -- with the help of your mentors, above all America.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3144	I will, on the basis of article 101, give you a warning to stick to your agenda, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3145	Absolutely, ma'am, I'm on the agenda, so listen carefully and please don't interrupt me. So, with great help, financial and logistics, you promised people towers and cities. You were saying, first of all, that you would bring in experts, that, through the media, we could listen to it, in all cities and municipalities, to carry out root tax reforms, that you would have one restrictive budget, and now you have to, as you know and know, move to some amount of the 130 billion budgets you planned for this year. You didn't dare today, Mr. Djelic, to say that this budget deficit is even higher, that it amounts to over 40 billion dinars because they are reduced, under pressure, excises, and that the income tax on citizens in this amount won't help you fill the budget items, get the income you planned, because this won't have anyone to pay. You have to face the fact that we have hundreds of companies, which have hardly produced anything since you, a pig, came to power, that we have a situation that there is no possibility of recovery of our economy. Seven days ago, your employer was in Kragujevac, the one who gave you precise instructions on what to do in front of that famous October 5th. So, William Montgomery came in, and when he left the flag, where first of all the workers with a warm meal, who had not been taxed, tried and managed somehow to survive, the one who was breaking into the flag appeared with long and short pipes, a certain Miodrag Savicevic, and said, "There was nothing Mr. Montgomery promised us. "He only came to record the situation, as he and his similar agents have recorded for years, with the goal of completely destroying our economy, this country and this people and he will continue to pass on the information. You have said it yourself several times, and because of the fact that you came from today, everything seems to me that you have no clear idea what's going on in our economy, and if you do, you don't particularly care. We, like you and Russia and Poland, are just one more experiment for you, which will cost a lot of this impoverished citizens, who today need to fill the consumer basket of four average salaries. And the question is with this income tax, which you are predicting, will be in any employer's situation to pay regularly and to earn a minimum gross amount.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3146	There is a word from MP Stevan Kesejic, and the next registered MP is Dragoljub Stamenkovic. I ask the MPs to stick to the subject for limited time and, if they may, avoid insults.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3147	I understand, Vice President, she hasn't lived yet, because I've been through this stage, where she's now, so I won't mind this remark that's been sent to me. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia in principle have always had a fair relationship with their country. They had an honest relationship, and when it was supposed to work voluntarily for that state, when humanitarian actions were to be carried out, they had a fair relationship with the state when it was to be defended, when it was to be killed for it. Also, Serbian citizens have always had a fair relationship when it comes to paying taxes, those the state expected of them, because they knew that without the state and the nation themselves could not survive. As a result, it is also a greater surprise for Serbian citizens today to pass such laws, which in fact want everything that the citizens of Serbia have done to be thrown under their feet, to promote their commitment to this country and to polarise between the state institutions and the people, the citizens of Serbia. After economic bombs, which have fallen under our economy by passing previous laws, which is the Tax Act, the Excise Law, one word of the Budget Law, these new laws should contribute, among other things, to the proposal for a law on the income tax of citizens, once again to the standard of citizens. We've heard here that nothing important has changed since the previous law, but what's most important is that it's actually changing. The social category, of which the employees of Serbian citizens lived, is precisely those of the incomes, which are now to be taxed, which is a regression and a warm meal. In fact, it was for citizens in very bad economic entities, where they worked and did not receive regular personal incomes, that they came as a melem to the wound, because they were able to achieve a minimal existence to themselves and their family. By introducing this category of income, it is certain that companies, which have so far had great pains, have managed to isolate these funds for hot meals and regress, will cease to do so, because they themselves will be burdened by this new income, which will be taxed, and it will also be the same for workers whether they receive these funds through regular salaries, as it is said here - wages, profits, or through some other kind, if they apply the tax rate equally to each other. The 20% tax rate on income from agriculture and forestry shows, indeed, the Serbian government now in the best way, and how the DOS leaders acted before the elections, in the election campaign, when they promised to help agriculture to the extent that agriculture helped the overall civil economy of Serbia. In this way, by unequal taxation of economic activity, so in the second, non-agricultural activities and in agriculture, so 14% and 20%, the most obvious and vivid figure is how much the new DOS government cares about the development and reform of agriculture. This is where we often hear that the main strategic and natural resources are right from agriculture. This shows that the government does not care about the preservation of these natural and strategic resources either. So they will not only destroy factories and those institutions, where DOS are now on boards, but also want to destroy meadows, pastures, cattle and all that is otherwise natural wealth and necessity in surviving this Serbian people. You'll destroy everything, because you've only learned it and you're applying it very successfully. The workers will only work for social security. Salaries and everything else they've received so far will be only nominally increased, and the real one will actually be just the basis for social and health insurance. Everything else will be just one farce, so you can talk to the citizens about an increase in employees' salaries. In fact, since that increase, it won't be anything. It is also best shown that, for example, the egg before 5 October was to be given 1.5 to 2 p.m., and today 4,00 dinars. So, on this basic need, you can see how much inflation is and how much DOS has contributed, in these five months, to even more expensive eggs. What citizens can find on the street, give it and tax it. You'll also tax your cell phones, the neighbor next door won't be able to come with a hook on his shoulder or with his hair to help, to do his jobs, to bathe the corn, to cut down the hay, because you're going to have government draws that will track these people with tools and you're going to put them in jail right away because they haven't paid their taxes. Of course, people who have to survive, who work in companies and who don't have the opportunity to earn money for basic needs, are so far, and will surely have to deal with some additional work in the future. These works could best be found right now in the deficit force, in agriculture. For example, when you bathe your sugar tail, finish your work at the factory, go on three or four hours to do the job, to earn tomorrow for the milk and bread to your children, and you tax it, he gets tired, falls off his feet, and then everything he does, and heavy physical affairs, you will push into your budget, and that budget will be used for those purposes that we don't even know today. Of course, you laugh here, you laugh at the blood and sweat of this people, and you will laugh until the hooks and the disruptors come before the congregation, and they will know well, and they will recognize who took that money from them. He'll recognize it well. In this law, a number of irregularities can be observed, and these irregularities are also in the next - elimination of a warm meal for factory workers, compared to...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3148	Time, Mr. Kesey, it's the eleventh minute now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3149	Wait a minute, I hope your time isn't coming. So, taxing a warm meal to factory workers and non-taxing those who go on official trips, to the height of 600 dinars, shows in the most obvious way in what layer of citizens you want to do and help, which you don't care about. Therefore, the SRS will consider this law on income tax, as well as any other taxes that will be on the agenda, to be the atomic bomb that you DOSs dragged after NATO's aggressor after you, and now you want to activate it at the most awkward time when the time comes for Serbian citizens who are in a very difficult economic situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3150	The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and the next registered candidate for the discussion is Radojko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3151	The representatives of the SRS have already warned that this law is destimulating and that it prevents development, above all, of self-operation. Take an example of one lawyer, while paying contributions to pension insurance, contributions to health care, other monthly fees and 20% of the sales tax on services for each service, pays rent for a local, telephone, heating and utility costs, costs of materials, it's somewhere between 25 and 30 thousand dinars. How much he needs to make to make himself a minimum profit of tens of thousands of dinars. Who can do that? Although, there are some lawyers, we've heard they make a lot more, there are even here, and now they're even ministers. They don't make it in a fair way. (Yes, Miroslav Ilic gives you some money and that's easy. ) We first adopted the budget and now it is necessary to realise the planned revenues. Incomes will not be realised if self-activities are choked before that. Perhaps the finance minister, as a guest in this country, is not aware of how small the wage power of the average citizen is, but you should have advised him. Recently, a finance minister visited Nis TV 5 in Nis. He said everything went up by 1%, even if there was a price reduction. I went to the first butcher's house, Rajic's street, to check it out, and it got more and more expensive than the minister explained on TV. Says the Minister of Health - pay for the participation, you'll be better off, because you'd better pay for it, so you have a favor, rather than pay so you don't have a favor. Minister, it's best if we pay the entire price of health care, then it'll be our best. Your people chose not to tell us what we did, how we did, and where our mistakes were, but to correct it, to help us, and not to impose new charges and expenses, there is no one to pay. Whenever you take something from us, you hit a new tax or you raise taxes, you say - you'll get better. You just don't say when we're gonna get better, I guess you want to surprise us. Let me finally read one view of the law, and I think this really needs to be fixed, unless you fix anything else. It reads this: "A tax on income from agriculture and forestry is not paid on cadastrian income," so it goes on to say "for those taxpayers who are over 65 years old for men, or 60 years old for women, unless they have other incomes and have no other household persons who can do these jobs, or have no personality legally required to support them". There are persons under the age of 65 and 60 for women, who are prevented from working on the property because of sickness or disability and who earn certain cadastrian incomes. The law should also specify that the categories of citizens should also be seen in relation to the tax exemption and the tax relief. It's clear to me, when you tax a hot meal and a regress, there's nothing out of those six billion dollars. Mr. Minister, when you're alone here, tell the ministers that a minister who doesn't listen to the MP doesn't listen to a part of the people. Those messengers were chosen by the people. This is disrespect, not for the MPs of the people, but for the citizens and the people who chose these MPs and finally, we chose you ministers in this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3152	The word has a health minister, Mr Joksimovic, and after that, MP Radojko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3153	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been directly called to say a word about participation, which is constantly mentioned in the means of public information, including here in the Assembly. Of course it is a subject, but we have to introduce participation for many reasons. One of the key reasons is that the health funds are empty, and we inherited them so empty. So, in the times that we inherited, which you broke while you were in power, along with the Socialists, you spent all possible health reserves. The question is how many health debts are in general, what are mutual claims in health care, because debt on various grounds is probably more than two billion marks. The Health Fund is under 420 million marks. You're now trying to say that it's a new government, DOS government, how it can overnight and from nothing to create something. We can share the poor with each other evenly and see that we all endure, as much as possible a burden of non-poverty, not to tell colorful and beautiful lies about how someone is eager to do something, but there's another that doesn't. The Minister of Health is just an ordinary man, average in all things, and you can throw me, not defend me, you'll understand me. Not health minister, incumbent Minister Obren Joksimovic, invented participation, it was something that existed and was suspended on several occasions for advertising reasons. We intend to return the participation, that's what we've proposed as a safeguard measure. It is better for health institutions from these funds that they collect during the day to buy at least what is most unnecessary, to buy fuel, and to go on a home visit, to get recipes on which they write, to buy soap to wash their hands, to wash the sheets somewhere, rather than pay anything, but to get nothing or to pay nothing, and to bribe someone or someplace else to pay much more expensive. So this is how participation should be viewed, not as a measure of coercion and experience over patients. That's one thing. The second thing, from the participation will certainly be the exception of pregnant women, children, old people, sick and changed faces, evasive faces, faces without receiving, of course diabetics, etc. It is not necessary to view participation as a measure of coercion and something the current government has invented to deceive its voters. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3154	Third call from Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3155	Ladies and gentlemen, I thought I'd spare you my third announcement on this agenda point, but since the health minister spoke this inspiringly, I just couldn't help myself. Turning to Joksimovic, when Serbian radicals entered the Serbian government in 1998, the health fund was already completely empty. So it wasn't us who emptied it, but it had been emptied for years before. It was emptied at a time when Nebojsa Covic was high, one of the highest officials of the Socialist Party, while he was burning and burning over Belgrade and Serbia, while he formed a villa on the Kostunica and with his firm made unfavourable contracts with state firms and delivered to the army a corrupt can. It's all connected. When it comes to fiscal incomes and fiscal spending, it's according to your system of merged courts. You can't have a healthy policy and a full fund in one area and others have a sick policy and empty funds. As soon as you're in one fund, in one area, it's spread to everyone else according to your system of combined vessels. So here the roots are much deeper than it looks to you, than you'd like to present in public. In addition, New Democracy was in the Serbian government from 1994 to 1998, when the biggest problems arised in health care, pension insurance and education, and Nebojsa Covic was a stagnant of the ruling policy at the time of the biggest, terrible operations, inflation at the cube, which ruined Serbia, inflation that began naively, and then was programmed and therefore called "inflation operation" and we eventually became world records. When we tried to bring down the Socialist government, Nebojsa Covic was one of the most strongly defended governments, and now you are directly assumed by the same Nebojsa Covic. He is to you, Obrene Joksimovic, health ministers, Deputy Prime Minister and you should refer to him on various issues. He needs to give you suggestions on how you're going to solve this, how you solve it. He's not a naive people. This people remember many things. They'll remember you and the DOS of those six billion-promised couples from abroad. You've deceived this people, and now everyone knows there's nothing out of 6 billion, and you've hit an insurgency on the fairies. Someone mentioned the Turks during the debate. It was much easier under the Turks. The Turks were paid 2 taxes, a third and a tenth. The third is 33%, the tenth is 10%, and that's 43%, and yet there's nothing left. What you're introducing is much worse than Turkish taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3156	The word has the Minister of Health Obren Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3157	Mr. Seselj is, of course, a brilliant speaker and everything he imagines he's trying to turn into some point, let's say he scored goal and usually likes to score goal out of contrast. In this case, we're a little mistaken, Mr. Seselj. It turns out, for everything that's happened in recent years, it's either Nebojsa Covic or Dule Mihajlovic. While working with them, while you were friends with them, while you had coalitions, minority governments, majority governments, you didn't attack them. You didn't attack them until they were in power and they weren't my bosses. That's what you're wrong about. I only have one boss. She's got four kids at home. I don't know if you have one. I'm just part of the government and that government is working together, in agreement, I hope for the well-being of Serbs. Do not transfer responsibility to Mr. Covic and tell me that he is responsible. I don't deal with who's responsible for what in health care. I am dealing with something else entirely, and by doing what is responsible, other services are involved and other services will investigate what Nebojsa Covic is responsible for, for which Dule Mihajlović is responsible and for what Mr. Seselj is responsible, so we will see who is responsible in the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3158	Vojislav Seselj, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3159	Mr Joksimovicu, whenever Nebojsa Covic was in power, we Serbian radicals were in opposition. No one has exposed any more criminal affairs of Neboja Covic from us. As early as 1995 and 1996, we listed all criminal affairs in order, so we published in our newspaper, in the "Greater Serbia", and we advertised the paper at Study B, so it was a basic motive for Nebojsa Covic to kidnap Studio B, in which privatisation was already almost completed and to state it. At that time, we worked together, with Djindjic and Kostunica, demonstrated in front of Studio B building against Neboja Covic. We strongly defended Studio B from Nebojja Covic. Now the same Nebojsa Covic, whose criminal affairs we know about, is one of the top officials of the Serbian government. And how can you convince me of the correctness of your policy and the sincerity of your intentions? If you didn't have Nebojsa Covic and people like him in your government, you might have some argument. They brought Djelic, no one knows him, and if I didn't know Dejan Popovic, I would think Djelic was an expert, but since I know Dejan Popovic, who is his deputy, I know that Djelic is not something special either, because he would not take Dejan Popovic. So are you with Nebojsa Covic. It's only with him that you'll have a big headache. As far as Serbian radicals are concerned, everything is transparent with us, you DOS people like that expression to be used. We're clear. We refused in 1993 to join the government with the Socialists, but we said, we'll give you a chance, and after three months, we asked the government a question of trust, and then we gave them another three months, and then we went down, when the government failed, and it turned out to be bad. We entered in 1998, when she threatened the threat of you coming to power under American control. The goal was to prevent you from coming to power, and we are to blame the Serbian people for failing to stop you. It is our fault, and you will see how you will surface with a government that includes Nebojsa Covic. That's what you'll see, because whoever's with Nebojsa Covic planted pumpkins on his head broke. Here, now that the trial of Jezimir Vasiljevic will begin, it will be an opportunity to see the role of Nebojka Covic from the time he was recruiting so-called. private banks. You're attacking the regime that's to blame for these banks. Yes, the regime is guilty, but whoever took the money directly in front of the regime - Nebojsa Covic. Well, like back after 200,000 marks. There were others who took them, but those who took them are no longer in power, so you know, I have no will to attack them either. I only attack those who are in power and at the peak of strength. I can't bleed to death against whoever you've already arrested or threaten to arrest or persecute or hide in a mouse hole. I only attack those who are at the height of power and influence, who pretend to have authority, so let's see what that authority is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3160	The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3161	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, respected members of the government, today when we continue the debate on a package of tax laws, I would like to point out the difficult explanation of the parliamentary majority's approach in the last session. On the agenda was the adoption of the budget and a number of tax laws. Several hundred amendments were submitted to it. As is known, no amendments submitted by opposition MPs have been accepted. Normally, it could not be expected that everyone, not even in the majority, the amendments would be accepted, but it was extremely abnormal and inexplicable not to accept any of these submitted amendments. For citizens and this country, it would be better if more tolerance had been expressed, if appropriate suggestions and suggestions had been accepted. It was seen that, during and after the parliamentary session, citizens were infuriated. They have also embarred that because of new tax burdens, which directly burden the standard of living, and because of the unanimity of most people, only to support government proposals, without looking at and accepting better proposals. The consequences of applying these laws have been reported to the public. The reason is not only the arrest of Slobodan Milosevic. The people want to draw attention to the other side, to scare the people, and if they can remove the SPS from the political scene, as the strongest opposition political party. Look at the people and they won't cheat. When we adopted the budget for this year, we saw how much it required to meet the needs of all public spending users. When there is no increase in production, then it is clear that there must be increased procedures both from the economy and from the citizens. Why does the promoter, i.e. The government, not openly announced, is talking about some discharge of the economy and citizens. It will also make it easier for citizens to accept increased obligations, but with an illustration of the truth, and to put into real look when there will be improvement. We are now considering a series of proposals for tax laws, whose adoption of the government explains why a discharge should take place, I mean the dispensation of the economy and the citizens. Basically, explanations are unsupported by convincing data, both for us MPs and for most Serbian citizens. He's moving on to the gross profit tax system. This implies that, in addition to basic earnings, the tax base includes all additional receipts, such as a warm meal, a regress for vacations, field allowances and others. It is said in the explanation that it creates a space for fiscal redundancies. Consider that by the end of February, all legal entities had submitted annual accounts, so as to say earlier final accounts, to the National Bank, to the Office for Accounting and Payment, and could have done the collection of data, has just been done, and now it is normal, could have made an example of the billing in one month, for all of Serbia, and suggested how tax enforcement would be under the current law, and how much tax enforcement would be under the new law. We could also get comparable reviews for another set of draft laws that are on the agenda of this session. If the reform of the fiscal system is to be adopted, let us present real and true, complete data. We don't need special funding for this. We have the Department of Accounting and Payment, which is located in the NBJ, this powerful institution, which runs economic statistics for all legal persons. On the basis of these pooled statistics, important economic policy measures are being prepared, including tax policy. On the basis of the proposed concrete data, we will also bring more valid regulations and will make it clearer for citizens and will give less resistance to their implementation, i.e. their application. Several tax laws, which are now on the agenda, are said to increase financial discipline as fines increase by about 100%. It is said that the grey economy will be significantly reduced. By increasing repressive measures, although necessary, it will not be resolved to avoid paying taxes. These measures must have more preventive than fiscal character. It's impossible to prevent a black market or a gray economy completely. No state has ever been completely free of corruption. This also applies to companies with successful economies and a long market tradition. The problem with us is that the necessity of paying taxes is not considered a moral issue. No moral standards were built to stamp non-payments. In the world, tax evasion is treated as a thieving of the worst kind and a rigorous punishment. Why does the government not propose measures to strengthen the education of citizens to pay taxes? When the government says it is implementing a reform of the fiscal site, why does nothing say what it is doing to better organise and raise the efficiency of inspection services. What will be done to synchronise the work of the Financial Inspectorate at the Office for Accounting and Payment of the NBJ, so we have the financial police in the Republic Public Revenue Administration, then the inspection in the Republic Fund for Disability and Pension Insurance and Employment, and the inspection in the Republic Health Insurance Office, etc. Whether they will unite their work and raise efficiency or each will work part-time for their part of tax collection and contributions. In a situation where we have a decline in production, a drop in living standards, a deterioration in the liquidity of the economy, an increase in the prices of most products, an increase in taxes, an increase in the number of unemployed workers, an SPS, as a social justice party, the burden of the obligation is to be shared more evenly in society. I expect that, when we consider these tax laws in particular, the parliamentary majority will respect one of the tax rules, which is tax justice. I hope that, compared to the Government's proposal, they will also accept a series of amendments that redistribute burdens, protect the living standard of workers with the lowest incomes, those without a settled housing issue, those who remain jobless and repair the state of all socially endangered citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3162	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3163	Dear MPs, honourable Minister Joksimovic, I also wanted to welcome Minister Cedomir Jovanovic, but he ran away. (He votes - he is not a minister. ) Well, I don't know, these days I saw him in the Serbian government holding a press conference and I'm judging he became a minstar. I was just wondering if I missed a session of the assembly. Otherwise, it says in the Rules of Procedure that the heads of Parliament clubs and MPs can organise a press conference, but in this home that is ours, not in the Serbian government. Ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda point, after the budget was adopted, unreally bloated, it was necessary to follow such a set of laws, including the Law on Income Tax, which transparently shows how the citizens should be "pulled off their skin from their backs". You don't think about whether it's possible or whether citizens can make that income. You affirm the gross profit system, as the basics of the tax, including the income as the basis of the tax all the additional incomes, and already my predecessors have said what are the receipts - a warm meal, a regression and so on. However, all this goes to the expense of taxpayers, because wages can not even be paid, but what needs to be paid to the state, that is, what the budget needs to be charged to, must certainly, under the threat of being forced to pay. To which all income is paid tax - on earnings, gross earnings, income from agriculture and forestry, income from autonomous activity, from copyright and industrial property rights, income from capital, income from immovable property, capital gains, and all other income that are not taxed. And I was just wondering -- what else could a tax be imposed on, when we received material with the amendment of DOS MPs, Gorica Mojovic and Milena Milosevic, who asked to be in Article 31. (Heading to Chapter III - income tax on self-employed activity) extends the subject of taxation, and says this: "Income from independent activity is also considered to be achieved through permanent or seasonal land exploitation for non-agricultural purposes, extraction of sand, gravel and rocks, production of chalk, bricks, crepa, crepa and similar production of vines and other fruit and vegetables, incubatory production of livestock and other similar activities, regardless of whether they are as independent activities registered with the competent authority". What the government misses, some, not by any chance, give some more money, here's even some of this kind of work, when a man digs up a little bit of clay from his estate, builds a brick or crack, he has to pay taxes on that too. The DOS advocated in its pre-election programme another concept of radical economic reforms - therefore, it does not stand in that concept - taxes and excise duties to cover all products and services, all income with minimum releases, does not even stand for such tax rates. You lied to your constituents, which isn't your first time, and it certainly isn't the last. Mr Djelic (I'm sorry he's not here, I don't like to speak in someone's absence) made Russia and Poland happy, on TV he was showing us some cookies, comparing France and Serbia, so I guess someone smart told him that it wasn't quite appropriate, that France had moved far from Serbia, so the next day in a similar show compared to Croatia, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary and so on. It seems to me at last session, Minister Djelic here said something that he would get a unit in the first grade of economic school, and that is why I don't take it seriously anymore, when he explains one of the laws (Dejan Popovic probably didn't have time to refer him to it). He said inflation is 7.5 per cent for the first three months of this year, so it can be expected to be 30 per cent on an annual basis. It's something that once a minister doesn't really feel like saying. The basic question, when I studied this bill, was for me -- why is the new law, not the amendments and the additions of the law, when it's only about changing the digits, and the essence remains the same? The only thing worse than the previous law is that the tax base is increasing, which is also more harmful to the taxpayer. In his opening statement, the minister underestimated the citizens of Serbia, he said -- we did not know that compensation for a warm meal and regress did not enter the basics for retirement. We knew that very well, but we also knew the situation in our economy, that our economy was not able to pay taxes and contribute to those fees and that it was only one way to pay workers another dollar more. So we're not stupid, we're not ignorant, we consciously wanted to do it that way. According to statistics, the bill explains that about 200,000 or 13% of workers in September were without official salary. I'd like to know how much it is now, probably even more, and they'll be just unemployed and there'll only be those who won't have that minimum profit either. What follows from this law is that we will completely destroy agriculture. The law does not treat agriculture at all as it should, in any way to stimulate young people to stay in the country to deal with agriculture. Privates will have to close their stores largely because they will not be able to withstand this much burden and will probably remain only C-market, Pekabeta and similar to them on the market. Instead of creating an ambience that everyone can earn first, even if they are stimulated, firstly, to employ a larger number of workers, and many of them have turned to self-employedness, not out of character, but out of necessity, because we know very well how many people have lost their jobs, or have been declared a technological surplus, which has taken advantage of the possibility that with 24 personal income, they start a new activity and set off a job. So that's how they solved the problem of their employment, their family's employment or support and theirs, and other families. And instead of finding some way to make it easier for them to hire other workers or to survive in general on the market, we tax them in this way, and surely we go towards the fact that privates are slowly closing their stores. As far as forced collection is concerned, it is prescribed that the procedure is urgent, to be carried out by the court, on a proposal from the tax authority, upon exhaustion of other cases and funds. So they take something from your house first, TV for example. Or some other piece of furniture, peasant cows, wagons, and then crossing, of course, to immobilities, and what is it, rather than nationalization?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3164	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3165	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, according to Republika Srpska government minister Djelic, finance and economy minister, citizens are not aware of what the state is taking from them. So it's up to us at this point, if we can at all, and have a chance from this pay phone to say something on the subject, to clarify the gravity of this tax code. It is true that in this law on income tax, citizens have no more serious tax reform, except for procedures in the area where income tax is spoken of. It used to be a personal income tax. When it comes to profit tax, I have to say that it was not in terms of the overall economy, which is covered by this income tax, i.e. by personal income tax. The weight of the time that we've been dealing with these ten years, the weight of the moment that we've suffered the bombing, because at that moment, we've lost about 300,000 workers, due to the consequences of NATO bombing and the damage caused by these circumstances. From then on, he's been trying to make a recovery of that part of the economy. But I have the impression that it won't be easy to come by, and by applying this income tax, we're going to be in a situation where another part of the employees in that poor part of the economy, because of the inability to pay off this volume, are out of a job. What's interesting in this part of it is that what was never taxed is taxed, and we'll have the principle of gross wages. He would have made sense if he'd split into several wholes, if he didn't have a coverage of who he is, because in such conditions of business having such a coverage is really amazing. What I'm saying is that some areas, and above all, I'm thinking about the textile industry, the construction industry, the Mediterranean complex and those areas that are related to furniture production, etc., are going to come to that level of profit, which is going to be much lower. When we put together a gross salary, when we put together a net profit and this on the other hand (hot meal, regression, field supplement and transport), we come up with a figure that doesn't make up about 30-40% of total income, and that already represented only one attempt to give through that kind of giving, and without taxing it to companies, and above all employees, to reach their breath. In this area you can't speak in this way, unless you mention those other actions that have enormous profits for our conditions, which is electricity, these are telecommunications and some other areas that are highly intelligent and technologically related to exports. In these areas, it certainly is not a good part of the income, and it will not be of any importance, so when we talk about reducing the total burden reduction, it will certainly be in this area 70%. In this second must go up and will represent 5-15% of the gross earnings of employees. We can't keep here, from this pay phone using data and saying if it applies to everyone, and this part when we're talking about inflation. She is in some areas, and the speakers here mentioned her selling refrigerators, whiskey, cigarettes, there's no inflation, but where people buy bread, life supplies, where what they put in a bag and buy each day, we sure as hell already have a more serious price increase. When we look at this income tax, we can look at it in two ways. Obviously, in one part of the economy, there will be a significant burden. And when we take another moment, and that's that part of the tax laws, that is, the social and health insurance laws, where the lowest bases are established, I have to say that most of that economy can't respect those basics. There's got to be a redundancy. If it's tied to 30 in the month, it has to be paid to the state, no matter how much it's going to be net profit, and if it's going out somewhere now, if we've done a good count of 1,800 and some dinars, it means that big collectives in the field of traffic, trade, provision of catering services, where big organisations are, where we have companies and in trade organisations, huge with 1,000-2,000 workers, and as far as that part of the economy is concerned, it remains that no significant shift has been made. We have such organizations in the area of traffic. These are companies that have functioned for the last 7.8 years at a minimum of survival, and given the dependence of directorial costs, to the other part. You can't take this profit tax procedure and hand it over as a whole if this part isn't taken out of the whole. What I mean in that part I mentioned, which is the textile industry, construction, traffic, catering, etc., where there are these serious business problems and that part of the economy that died in NATO bombing, where there are a large number of people who are slowly returning to work, but there is no production, no profit, no profit, no creation, especially the fact that the drop in exports in the first three months compared to last year is about 10%. So we don't have that on this strategic plan either, we don't have this to talk about the whole. I think, when it comes to income tax, something will happen that won't be of any quality. I see colleagues from DOS are taking a nap, they don't think to hear what we're saying, I guess they don't find this interesting. Maybe they didn't even read the material. Why would you read, when you read the newspaper, and in the paper mostly about the arrests of the Socialists and who will run to the next one in prison. You know, there's nothing in your media about these regulations, unions don't exist, you don't ask these, they don't matter. All you needed was for them to come out on the street with you, to change power, and then from this pay phone you say, be patient, this is the spirit of a young time. You know, time is new, but it's not good, it's not good for this people. So be careful and listen to what I'm talking about. When it comes to taxes on the total income of citizens, it is characteristic because it exists in legislation, because it existed, but a very small number of taxpayers file tax returns. It's not in this view that matters, because this law is important. It can also be earned and good, but no mechanisms are foreseen until the end, how to collect taxes from categories of taxpayers who avoid filing tax returns. However, we do not have a built information system through which we can follow quality, because there are parts of the economy from which it can be seen, but there is that other part. First of all, I mean in the field of culture, in the field of information, and in those parts, I don't think we can even get into a situation to see how much income there is, how much tax evasion is in that area.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3166	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3167	Let me finish. There should be mechanisms and a way to try in some way, to collect that part of the profits, because it is obvious that in this area the sz earns better, to live better, and especially in the spirit, in this informative sphere. I've been asking a Reuters reporter these days (she says she knows everything about Užička and where every tree and every building and every piece of it is) what her salary is, and she tells me I'm uncultured. I guess we're rude when we ask how much money is because someone's paying from abroad. I guess they know how it's supposed to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3168	The People's MP Dragan Colic has the word, followed by the MP Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3169	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, each in a series of proposed tax laws has its own meaning and weight. Therefore, they deserve to be discussed seriously and thoroughly by the MPs. You have decided here by tyranny of the majority that the discussion will come down to five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3170	We didn't limit the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3171	When I say you've reduced the discussion to five minutes, I mean a package of tax laws. The torment of our MPs will be limited and reduced to five minutes, to explain to the people the meaning and purpose of these laws. But the pains of Serbian citizens will increase by adopting these laws. You, gentlemen of the DOS, promised the people changes in the election campaign, and now you're unwarranted, illogical and unnecessary skin taxes. The people can't take it anymore. All that you have come up with and purposed for him is the insatiable appetites of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is normal for every country to collect taxes from its citizens through rational laws, but the state must also take care of the spiritual and material well-being of citizens. For now, you DOS gentlemen are very good at worrying about who's going to put their hands more and deeper in the empty pocket of the people. You didn't have mercy on children either, because if you did, you wouldn't have introduced taxes on children's shoes, clothes, school supplies. Neither health or education workers have been better off, nor have any areas of human activity avoided your tax noose that is slowly, but certainly tightening around the already state-of-the-art doors of Serbian citizens. You voted to allocate 500m dinars from the budget to Nebojsa Covic, who enjoys watching a basketball match in Vrsac, and we are giving him strong money to worry about the borders in southern Serbia. Zoran Djindjic contributes to the savings and better lives of citizens by taking pictures on the trotine. If it's from DOS leaders, it's tragic and unserious. If you don't tell me that I'm not friendly with the government of DOS, I'll give you some advice. This DOS government is also entitled to reconstruction in order to work more efficiently. I propose that we pay Minister Djelic everything he's done so far, that we thank him, so let him go to the countries of the European Union, because this is still Serbia's country. Instead of the Minister of Culture Lečić, you have a nice staff solution - Bogoljub Arsenijević - Maki, famous painter. Instead of the building minister, the baggerist Joe. I suppose the government would have been more successful with those personnel solutions. Our Serbian people sang a song - "The Move of the French Ships", and for Minister Djelic, it would probably be appropriate - the French plane is moving. Mr. Cholic, let's get back to the subject. ) While sweat workers work hard, many of them have no money for transportation to work, many of them do not have breakfast, and you end both a warm meal and a regress for vacation. Health care workers have an obligation to feed the sick, and they starve themselves while doing so. The Serbian poet says: "and no one will hear the poor cry, no pain to drunk gentlemen, workers, peasants, naked people, you are dust on the floor," he drags and drags in the DOS tax yoke rot. The DOS government reminds me of the wormy apple, and it does not wait for the storm to bring it down, it is the first breeze. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3172	The word is from the MP Slobodan Janjic, after which Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3173	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, unlike gentlemen of the ruling majority, we, the MPs of the SRS, prepare for each session very seriously to criticise these laws, all in order to improve them a little. I, as an SRS MP from the Pcinj County, when I get this material of yours, make a nice copy of it in 20 copies, so I divide it from the workers, the businessmen, the mayor of the municipality, the farmers, the cafekeepers, everyone. I pick up an opinion from these people who are concerned with these laws, and then I discuss it. When you proposed this law, you had no ear for employees of companies who suffered material damage in the bombing of NATO aggressors, whose basic assets were totally destroyed or damaged to such an extent that they could not carry out their activities. Since the Government has not taken any concrete measures to help these companies, i.e. workers, in the form of loans, donations or loans, I believe that these workers should be freed from taxes. Companies would return to normal production within a short period of time and enter into regular flows and settle their obligations towards workers and the state. They'd hire workers who were out of a job, so they could survive. You, as the ruling majority, said in the election campaign that you would not be on boards, that you would not function except those for whom the people chose you. You're entering boards of well-being companies, cement stores, Danube security, the Oil Industries, where there's something to take. Which one of you doesn't go to the Machine Industry, to the Electronic Industry, to the ruined Krusik or to another firm in Vojvodina, which is on the air. Show your knowledge there. Mr. Janjic, please stick to the subject. Lord Chairman, when you warn me, let me also warn you. During the last meeting of the National Assembly, a large number of MPs were poisoned. Just laugh. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] You haven't notified the National Assembly of the investigation into this case, so I'll give you a guideline in which direction you need to investigate. Your ministers and vice-presidents of the government have so dirty their fingers over these four months that once they get through the dining room, they're causing the disease. What else to say about this bill, there is no exemption from taxation of citizens' incomes from the damages of the benefit. You've lost it, you've got no use for it, you've got to pay your taxes. You are required to pay taxes on illegal termination of employment. If you can't pay someone's debt, or you've forgiven your debt, because you have no one to charge for it, you have to pay the tax. And from where? The essential paper of the proposed solution consists of the fact that the basic income tax includes, in addition to the earnings so far, wages, earnings and any additional incomes paid by the employer to the employee on a collective contract or other basis: regression, a warm meal, a field supplement and others. A special story in this bill is criminal provisions. Unlike the solutions so far, there is no right to appeal to the census record, as well as to the right to conduct a administrative dispute, which is in accordance with the law governing enforcement, which, otherwise, does not allow the right to object. Furthermore, listed items are arranged, taken away from the taxpayer, as well as to be left for storage, by making it visible that they are taken on the list, and the debtor warns of the ban on the availability of those funds and the criminal consequences of the action against that prohibition. It is also arranged to sell listed items through oral public competition or direct contract between the buyer on the one hand and the tax authority. The owner who's been taken away from a particular thing, an example of a car, has no right to buy if he comes to the means to settle his obligations and recover his car. Lower limits of fines are also increasing. The fines go from 2,000 to 200,000 for a legal person and for an entrepreneur from 1,000 to 100,000 and for a natural person from 100 to 10,000. Who can pay for that in this country? The parliamentary majority should start acting as MPs, not as a voting machine of the government. I'm guessing you're MPs, and you're not the government's voting machine. The only thing you didn't tax the chimneys on the houses, probably because the green season was over, so the citizens would tear down the chimneys so they wouldn't pay taxes. Tell me how many leaders took your money to destroy all the production of the tobacco industry and agricultural goods, the machinery industry, to give them that money, so far a beautiful house. At the last meeting, I submitted an amendment to Article 4. "Cresum, plant protection and seed material." Everything would be fine if it wasn't in the text of the government's amendment to "complete feeds for feeding cattle". Whose proposal was that put in? Isn't Mr. Djindjic's best man the head of the herd, the biggest cattle company. When we point to your mistakes, or the legalization of the robbery of citizens, it's obstruction, and if we keep quiet, then we agree with you. Turns out we're into it, too, so we're not. What else can I tell you? Forgive them, God, they don't know what they're doing. And you, our citizens, remember who stands for what in this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3174	The People's Messenger Marijan Rističević has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't mean to take my word for it, but one speaker before me mentioned two topics, agriculture and Vojvodina. Since he's stepped off the agenda a little bit, you'll let me step down, too, because there are some things I have to defend. That speaker has been in the opposition party for 10 years. He said well that in the past 10 years agriculture has suffered the greatest burden. But in those 10 years, he did not ask for Jova Babovic's resignation, did not ask for a resignation, nor did he ask for Ik Djonovic's resignation. These are three ministers who struck a death blow to Serbian agriculture, of course, with two or three parties who supported the ministers and the government. For ten years, we have dreamed of getting rid of some taxes, such as fertilizer tax, seed tax, diesel tax, compound feed tax, livestock food, plant protection, plant tax. For ten years we dreamt about it and finally when we won, the government had hearing and it respected those taxes. The government also heard and did not raise the cadastrian base to the peasants, so their tax remained at the same level as last year despite inflation. So this is the first government to have little hearing about agriculture, and it's strange that someone is seeking the resignation of the Minister of Agriculture or the government's objection to agricultural policy. The other thing is Vojvodina. When a Montenegrin comes and resents us because we advocate the economic autonomy of Vojvodina - no one resents Montenegro which requires even independence, independence etc. That's not good, but we think it's their way. But then there are some of their members, allegedly of the Serb family, who resent us from Vojvodina for seeking economic autonomy, the autonomy that will be in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. There is nothing hostile about the state of Serbia. I'm sorry I stepped off the agenda, and now I'd like to say something about taxes. We are not satisfied with existing solutions, nor are most citizens. But it is necessarily evil, because for ten years, the three ruling parties have raptured agriculture, economics, industry, as if we had been in the museum for ten years. The technologies are back in the '70s, it's all worked out, it's all used to make people survive somehow. One common poor thing was made. The cheap bar patriotism policy has created one mugging state, capital has been regrouped, 1% of people have been enriched, and 99% of the formerly good middle-class citizens have become poor. Those people who ran that policy of cheap bar patriotism, which caused other people to die, which made other people run out of houses, poor, and now they're showing up, and then they're making the poor, and they're crying over the poor. You made that poor girl, you orphaned them. Under your authority, they ran out of money, no capital, no houses, no lives. Now you resent us for calling taxes on the poor? We're not satisfied with the solutions, but we have to start with something real. You had a budget, but you also had passing accounts under your budget. You printed the money. You said you needed to print the money. The printing of money is the best tax on the population. Make a smaller budget, print 70% of the money mass, that's 70% of the extra tax. That's how you've been hiding "insinuating the fairies," and now you're moaning. We're not satisfied with the solutions, we're not satisfied with this law either, but it's necessarily evil, it's a necessary measure. It's the first step to get to the right system, to develop the economy. You're the past, and we don't need to talk to you. Your clients should be banned. We don't need to compete with you. What opposition are you? Last term, there were 5.6 opposition MPs. We've always had our tone covered, but we're not using the right of the majority to challenge you. Six MPs you couldn't listen to. The sessions lasted three hours. You're rebelling now? Your parties should be banned. You're the past, you're the avets. We're the future, you should be banned. We need to compete. Thank you. [[Vojislav Seselj reporting for replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the agricultural situation has deteriorated for half a century. When did the deterioration begin? Right after World War II, when Father and Uncle Dragan Vesenov ripped off the peasants' mustaches and forced them into cooperatives. The father and uncle of the current agriculture minister, and Marijan Risticevic is from his party. (A voice from the scene: I Covic's grandfather. ) He may have been Covic's grandfather, but I don't know what I don't know, I don't speak, unlike you DOS. But Covic was here somewhere safe, you know that. Then comes this period of sanctions, blockades, crackdowns of the previous Yugoslavia, etc. What father and uncle did, that's what Dragan Vesenov does in a traitorous camp afterwards. They were destroying peasants, and this one tried to beat up the Serbian nation. With all the enemies of the Serb people, they agreed, with everything, and helped them spiritually against Serbia-Yugoslavia. And here, and now this same Marijan Risticevic and his boss Dragan Vesenov are doing everything to get to Serbia. This autonomous projection is clearly and widely known to everyone. Its purpose is the Duke's Republic and the independence of the Vojvodina. And what is the moral motive of this policy, it was seen in the last term, when Dragan Veselinov, in one far-fetched way, deceived Nenad Chanka, to get him kicked out of the National Assembly and to put this man, who speaks of the avets, into the Assembly. This man probably recognizes himself somewhere in the mirror. He's talking about banning parties. Of course, any one who has no arguments resorts to a cannon. Since DOS has no arguments, he's most often ready to let go of the topless. You DOS, who advocate this tax policy, forget that in your ranks they have found the refuge of the greatest tax havens. Here is one of them, called Miodrag Kostic, who is the financial director of the Democratic Party and the godfather of Nenada Canka. He owes 1,400,000 dinars of taxes, and he won't pay, because he's protected by DOS, the Republic Public Revenue Administration, the Novi Sad branch, etc. I don't know, Gordana Comic has avoided giving her public opinion on this case. She said it is not a matter of the Democratic Party to declare it. That's what the state authorities are gonna talk about. The state authorities are DOS, and they're quiet. So where there's a member of the DOS, he can go to his will, get into crime. If he is not a DOS member or is not ready to join and pay for a certain racket, he is threatened with prison, liquidation and many unpleasant things. Now I understand, I was surprised that 95% of the JULs passed overnight into DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3177	Mr. Seselj, I'm warning you that time has gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3178	I'm finishing up, be patient, another ten seconds. And I see all those who were known for their criminal activities at the SPS overnight are in DOS. Like, they've always been DOS, only so far they've been skillfully hiding.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3179	According to the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Risticevic has the right to the replication, due to violations of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3180	Rules of Procedure, Rule 96, have been injured. Unlike the gentleman who spoke before me, this article says: If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended about the MP, he has the right to reply. I didn't mention the gentleman, I recognized myself by the apparitions, and that's his business. But he was spreading orthodox nebuloses here. He claimed that Dragan Veselinov and I are traitors and we want to beat Serbia. What are we going to do about it, what they haven't already beaten. What can we betray? There's nothing he didn't betray, from Karlobag, Ogulin, Virovitica made it to Karlovčić, Petrovčić, Surčina It's, like, the state after him. [[Laughter in O.R.]] Who are we going to rip our mustaches off? I'm sure we can't help him because they're gone. We'll patent him, it's the best way to take down a dictator. You stick a dictator to him and he falls in two and three years. He served Tito for two or three years and fell. He served Sloba for two or three years, this one fell. Now we'll take him to Iraq. I'd be worried if I were Saddam Hussein. So let's stick it in there, in two or three years, this one's gonna fall, maybe the Americans will honor something, because a man is tearing down dictators. I don't know how it's going to go there without a mustache, but when he came here as a duke without a beard, he'd go like an Iraqi colonel without a black mustache. I'm so sorry we didn't bring a tax on stupidity here. I think the gentleman would pay the highest tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3181	The People's MP Gordana Komic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3182	Ladies and gentlemen, mentioning the name of the Democratic Party, which I run within the DOS, has been done over two topics. First, interpretation when quoted should be given correctly and should not be given in the context of this interpretation of your image of the world. I can understand why you can't possibly understand that you can win the election and you can do it by the law. So all the information mentioned here is a matter of judicial and state authorities, not political parties. The second topic, which is being misused here, misquoted, is the conclusions of the Vojvodina Assembly session, held on 29 March 2001 in Novi Sad. Two conclusions were drawn by the Assembly. The first reads: Starting with the autonomy of Vojvodina, within the democratic state of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, through the Committee on the Determining and Realising the responsibilities of the AP Vojvodina, achieves direct and full co-operation with the competent committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at the stage of proposing laws and other general acts, as well as in the phase of their previous consideration in the National Assembly, and in order to regulate relations in certain areas in the most comprehensive and legal way possible. Second conclusion: It is up to the Executive Greater AP Vojvodina to carry out permanent and direct co-operation with the ministries and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as legislators and processors of laws and other general acts, so that legislative initiatives of the province's authorities are subject to review in the first stages of the production of legal texts. These are the conclusions of the Vojvodina Assembly, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other regulations, relating to the powers of the Vojvodina. And that's how it's gonna be. Who else dreams in the state, who intends to produce fear in the country, will run into the same judicial authorities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3183	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Vitomir Plužarevic. (Milorad Mircic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure). All right, MP Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3184	I can understand that there is one collegiation between you sitting at the table, the chairman, but you must not allow a derogation from this Rules of Procedure. Article 95 has been injured. After Mrs. Comic went out for this pay phone, advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, that is. . .
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3185	She had the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3186	Yeah, it was a replica, and it wasn't even called. Her statement was made as it says in this document, but she took advantage of the opportunity to declare autonomy, or as they called it, the constitutional structure of the Vojvodina. (Vladan Batić, from the post: How many MPs you have in Vojvodina. Minister, take it easy with that machine you're working on. If he came out to replicate, then he needs to state the truth, what's standing here in this document. Secondly, we have experience with stories like this, economic autonomy. The people watched the direct transmission of the Duke's Assembly. . .
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3187	You asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Mircic, I warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3188	You can hate me, and you've all had a chance to see me at the Vojvodina Assembly. I would ask you all to have the same relationship that was prescribed in this Rules of Procedure, not to advertise the anti-constitutional decisions of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, do not think that we are so naive, that we do not know what the Archive of Vojvodina means, that we do not know how important the Mother of Serbia, the Serbian National Theatre is. What do you think, most Serbian people are so naive? Don't play with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3189	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Vitomir Plužarevic, and the next reported for discussion is Mr. Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after Mr. Djelic's presentation, it turns out that nothing new in this law is happening. Everything that was old is preserved. Only the percentage of all payments was increased, and he didn't say it like that, but he absorbed it in the gross earnings item. We need this law to disarm a time bomb that is in the heart of Serbia, and imagine these time bomb are warm meals, field supplements and regressions. These are taxes that employers had to pay workers without paying taxes. How now employers in these conditions that are even harder than the previous ones are going to do so. It won't work. For the past 15 years, we have been in a delicate political and economic situation. It is not us, the Serbian radicals, who are discussing it today, nor have we led to this situation. It has been said that when workers get paid, when taxes are paid to the state, they will get their rights. Which are the rights, when a large train is being prepared for the transport of our workers, because they are neither professional nor capable of accepting this transformation coming from the West. What they can do when they're not qualified and they need to qualify, it's a shock to the workers. What the state takes from tax collectors is wrong if they think they're going to get rich. Our dialogue, the minister says, with employers, with the union and with the state, nothing brings us any radical or new dialogue. Mass tax avoidance should be regulated with gross wages. We are the last country in Europe to talk about warm meals and givings such as regressions and travel expenses. We will not overcome this law because I believe we are neither political, economic, nor human, ready to end it. A synthetic citizen's income for 2003 I'm not going to talk this time. We'll make it possible to attract foreign capital at low rates of 14% for profit, and 20% for other types of income. Foreign capital that will go at this rate is believed to come into our Serbia, thus increasing the economic power of the population. It's just an assumption, when we know foreign capital doesn't get into unverified areas, like ours. It is south of Serbia, Kosovo, Montenegro and Vojvodina. As far as corporate profits are concerned, he was working on paper and he was fine. That's the end of it. We want foreign capital to enter the state. That's very disputable. We should have the same conditions for domestic and foreign investors. On these occasions, it's inexhaustible, it's gonna be hard to do. He won't have foreign capital revitalizing our fallen economy. They want to come to clean relationships. You know what that capital is where they want it to be. It's a high-tech technology that requires a small number of workers. Why do they need workers and warm meals, what we're discussing today? The cobwebs of this law will no longer be able to function as they have so far. The pausal is thought to be translated into legal frameworks. Who's the one who's going to be dealing with the cobwebs this way in this law? Nobody. This law tightens criminal measures, so that's the part that affects the stimuli of all of these rates to bring factories in for purposes, so that workers can function. The law we are now discussing aims to devalue the value of all factories in order for privatisation to have approximate conditions, which took place in Poland, Russia and Hungary. There, Minister Djelic was an expert in transformation, and now we have an expert in finance. When we get the promised six or seven billion dollars, then this law can be accepted without much discussion. I've proposed an amendment to Article 28 of the Law, and I'll discuss it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3191	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Garčević, and the next is the MP of the people, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3192	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, the ministers, before I go on the subject, I must point out something that the presidency must turn to the MPs, which is - there is no insult on national grounds. An MP who was, whether from Vojvodina, Montenegrins are there, will be on the bumper, there is separatism and Milo Djukanovic and the separatism of the Vojvodina autonomists, but not the citizens of Vojvodina. This needs to be separated and I will fight for everything that can be done, that all nations and peoples living in this area are equal, that they live in harmony and that our Republic of Serbia is unique and that it is the only state. The rest of the economic solution will be resolved for the benefit of all Serbian citizens, starting with Vranj, in conclusion with Sudotica. It's the only way our country can survive, on these grounds, on mutuality, on help and on solidarity. Everything else doesn't belong to any citizen. The Socialists of Sremska Mitrovica will fight for a single Serbia, to live in harmony, they have done and will always, will have hearing for all citizens and for all their problems on the territory of Vojvodina. I ask you once, until the material comes here to the Assembly, until it is formed, we have no discussion. I don't want to participate in such debates, but I'm ready to talk about the territory of Vojvodina. And if the Montenegrins defend Serbia to become unique, I will be very pleased. I think they're the citizens of the Duke's bumper. I'm going to move on to this part of the exhibition, just to say, let's not ban the party, ban everything, because there are no fascist parties here, there are parties that have been elected legally and to stop working on the well-being of Serbian citizens. These laws certainly burden all citizens, especially the full economy. I've been talking to the builders these days. They asked me what would happen to taxes on these payments. They simply do not have the opportunity to pay the workers net because construction works did not start, although it is the fourth month, so the payment consists of travel expenses and a warm meal. It's survival of a construction operation. I'm getting circumstances the other day I was at the Pirot and I see it's the same there. So it's not a matter of territory. The question is, when are we going to start production and when are we going to talk about how to speed up production without extracting all the other taxes that are necessary for the state? On the other hand, I can't even see in the funds provided for certain activities of social character that there will be enough funds to cover the taxes on a warm meal, taxes on part of the travel expenses and all that is taxed. I believe that it was prematurely taxed and that the social character of the entire population was to be seen, and then gradually turned to Europe. We can't make it to Europe with their prices and with our salaries. I think we've thought about it in such a way that we can move gradually to Europe over a period of time, but I believe first and foremost in work, in creating conditions for work, and then the product of work gives the opportunity for the population to be safer. Looking at the taxes that will appear on all grounds and the part that I personally can't accept, the appearance of a tax collector and that it can settle with someone like that on the sale of property, I think we're in the water that we're still going to have to have feelings for the social part and probably not act on one part of those laws, no matter how much we swear, when we get into a situation to realize them. I want the Serbian government and all ministries to sometimes respect certain amendments. It doesn't matter if the MP is an opposition or a position. It is important whether he wants to benefit the Serbian people and all the peoples who live in this territory. I think we all do.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3193	The People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word, and then the People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3194	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the personal income that employers pay to employees every month, included in gross earnings, and make a basis for paying taxes and contributions are: compensation for a warm meal, regression, field allowance. I don't know where you come from, like you don't see how miserable and miserable people live. Instead of pulling a line below which the standard of living of workers must not fall, you take away the minimum necessary to survive. This compensation for a warm meal serves to resuscitate the family's food budget, schooling children, clothes and so on, everything you've taxed. That fee constitutes a minimum of the right to be paid to employees for working days. Regres used to serve recreational workers on behalf of the cost of taking vacations. Today, however, it has become a reception that wants to preserve the family budget. Many look forward to it because they get a lot more money than personal income. Employees who, due to the need of the service, are required to work on the ground by the employer to compensate for the increased costs on the ground of accommodation and nutrition, or by paying the fees that in general cover the costs that employees have while on the ground. A field supplement is an important item in the incomes of workers who work in the field because it uses these funds for its own and for the survival of its family. In the present time, when no company works or works with reduced capacity in the manufacturing sphere, since earnings are not paid by collective contracts, and somewhere they are not paid at all, where the warm meal, the regress and the cost of transport are the only income, taxing the compensation for a warm meal and a regress would be devastating for many businesses, and even more so would affect the difficult material and social situation of workers. I believe that this law should be stoners until the government measures are operational and the government improves the standard of living of workers with its own measures. If we look at the situation in the sowing, the government has so far not helped the agrarian with lending and various reliefs. This year's sowing is more expensive than in the last 30 years because more expensive are imported mineral fertilisers, seed goods, protective products. I must honestly say, one hectare of corn would be sown now by a peasant costing 1,000 marks. Instead of the government liberating the peasant from this tax, because last week's drought was declared a natural disaster, and the annual income was halved, the government increased this tax doubles and so you think of the village and the peasants. That's why we Serbian radicals are looking for a shift from the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Veselinov. He's not here. He must've gone hunting, looking for plums somewhere. With this law, many companies will quickly close their gates, and workers will be out of work. By abolishing the flat-rate taxation of many trades you close, workers are left out of work and social cases arise. Workers, who after 30 years of employment, because of the company's failure to do business, or as a technological surplus, have been referred to the Employment Service, have so far received compensation until retirement, and now by new law only 24 months. Where are they going after that? I'd say something to Mr. Joksimovic, Minister of Health, I think you lived in this country like I did, I'm not a doctor, I'm a master of technical science and I couldn't steal at the hospital, and you probably could. I think because of this word, the guard, at home, you're going to get a good grab.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3195	The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and after him is the Messenger Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3196	Ladies and gentlemen, I must start by speaking to Mr. Djelic, who, in his presentation, has somewhat triumphantly claimed that the package of tax laws, which was adopted and which was in the procedure, did not cause a greater blow to the citizens' standards. In fact, the minister said there were some price adjustments. Some products have accumulated a few percent, and some have cheaped a few percent, but on average it has not caused any more significant price changes, and hence citizens' standards. I will, and I must confirm that the minister is partly right. In fact, technical goods have not been collected, it has cost, stoves, refrigerators, freezers and other techniques, however, the average citizen of Serbia buys the stove once or twice in life. On the other hand, oil, sugar, salt and other products, which are used daily in nutrition, have been expensive, not by 2%, but by 20%, and they are bought daily and are an extremely large blow to our citizens' standards. Also, Mr. Minister didn't say, he kept quiet that the power had accumulated, and that would only cause an inflationary blow and a blow to our citizens' standards. The electricity has been accumulated since April 1st. That's a fact, you just haven't agreed on how many percent in the government yet and how it's going to be implemented. It's already been reported and there's only a deal in the government waiting for how many percent and how the electricity will accumulate. As for the very law that is before us today, the Law on Income Tax, and the layman, it is clear that this government's intention to fill in all possible ways the budget that was designed and adopted in this assembly a few days ago. A budget of 130 billion dinars, which is four times higher than last year's budget, must be filled at any cost. That's what this law proves and shows. The minister said this law won't change the tax rate on workers' earnings, and that's true. She stays 14%. However, the tax base is changing, which is now increased, as in addition to the net earnings includes regression, a warm meal and a field supplement. The higher tax base, with application, means the same tax rates, will give normal and higher income to the Republic of Serbia's budget. This law, which is likely to adopt, means such solutions, the state or the budget of the Republic of Serbia, is in the positive. He's got this bill. The question arises, however, what about those who are taxpayers and who are under direct hit by this law, which are workers, they are employees of the economy of the Republic of Serbia. What are the consequences of this law for them? If this is carefully looked at and looked at, the consequences are negative. In fact, the employees of this law will surely go down. The same funds planned for the payment of earnings and other remunerations of employees must now be reduced by the amount to be allocated under this law on the basis of the regress tax, a warm meal, on the field allowance. The minister also said that these and other laws that are in the process will lead to redistribution of the economy, that more funds will remain for business organisations, economic operators, which will be able to channel to increase workers' earnings. If the tax base remains the same then I don't see a way in which the economy will disburse, only if the rates of contributions for pension and health insurance are reduced. How serious this current government is in order to fill this budget, says Article 85. It's a bill of law. This article also provides for a tax on other incomes. So everything that couldn't be covered by concrete and clear revenues is classified into other incomes, and it's also taxed. Article 85 also includes revenue generated by members of student, youth and student cooperatives, as well as the income of natural persons obtained by the collection and sale of secondary raw materials, forest fruits and medicinal products. Mr. Minister, in order for this law to be transparent, as you say, until the end, as well as the previous laws, I would ask you to explain to the villagers who collect forest fruits during the summer months, medicinal plants, that from now on they will pay taxes and on these revenues, even though they get up at 4:00 in the morning, to collect up by 6-7 hours a kilo or two mushrooms, they will cross 10 and more kilometers by forest values and then continue their working day that lasts in the summer months and 18 hours. Now those revenue from a kilo of mushrooms will be taxed. They'll have to pay taxes on those incomes. I also ask you, Mr. Minister, although you do not listen to me, to explain to the residents of the cardboard settlement in New Belgrade and other Roma who are mostly involved in collecting papers around Belgrade, that from now on they will have to pay taxes on the income they earn on this basis, means by collecting and selling paper, even though it is their only source of means to live. Mr. Minister, aren't you a little out of line?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3197	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3198	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in another country, with another economy, in another perhaps economic environment such a package of laws and a desire to make gross profit affirmative, a desire to narrow down the amount of flat tax, might also make sense. And not only that, but it would be quite real. However, we live in a country where we have lack of production, lack of money, lack of work, lack of optimism, lack of civil security, and we have a surplus of false promises, chaos, poverty, hopelessness, apathy and hunger. In such an economic environment, such a law will only make the country’s overall difficult social situation worse. It is again on the basis of one psychological burden and promise, a burden of revolutionary enthusiasm, on the basis of a psychological basis of six billion dollars, on the rapid improvement of total production, on honey and milk that will flow to Serbia. And now that the cards have opened up now some restrictive tax systems are actually distracting attention from the real truth that exists in the state. This law is actually prescribed by law with changed numbers. It was not a new law that had to be passed, but only amendments and additions to the existing law. The only difference from the previous one is that a social component has been expelled, which may at this point be the most important component of this law to bear. The social component -- that many workers have just survived through warm meals these difficult years that the country has been going through. What's absurd in this law, those are criminal provisions. Not by their size, but by the range there is. From 1,000 to 100,000 dinars, from 2,000 to 200,000, 1 to 100. It's a space for horrible manipulations that can be made in solving and punishing some of the crimes. Once again it is proved, gentlemen -- when it is not as promised to go into democratisation, it is always easier from democracy to a dictatorship than it is transferred from dictatorship to democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3199	The word is from MP Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards the proposal for a law on income tax for citizens at the moment, given the standard of citizens in Serbia, I think it is totally unacceptable. A lot of this has been said by previous debaters from my parliamentary group, the Serbian Unity Party. I just want to look back on the issue of agriculture. To point out that agriculture has been a reluctance, an institution for the purchase of social peace. Probably from that honor of buying social peace, relying on the back of agriculture, giving it an honorary place to raise taxes, and I think it should be the other way around. It's so-called. The factory under the clear sky, you never know if the invested work and the efforts of the peasants will be rewarded, because it all depends on the weather opportunities, better said, trouble. I therefore believe that the income tax from agriculture and forestry should be reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent, that is also the attitude of the Soviet Parliament group, which is already being talked about by MP Markovic. I would like to point out in addition to this, when it comes to agriculture, that from the promised regressed oil of 40 liters per hectare, a variety of filtering and playing words in the interpretation of this provision, it is maximum, and I responsibly claim, from 20 to 25 liters, depending on the government of local self-government, or how it is in certain municipalities. I think this bill on income tax even leads to double taxation of citizens, or somewhere triple. Plus, just to support it, because I'm very well aware that the tax is subject to, for example. auto transporters, taxi haulers and goods. Just to clarify that - one car carrier pays a triple tax, taking into account that his vehicle is not a basic means of work, parts of the vehicle, parts of the oil he also spends, it is not exempt from the sales tax, because the basic means of work is not included, and the anomaly is recognised as only a taximeter as a basic means of working, and in particular is a taxpayer through taxation from independent labour. I think at these moments it should have been taken care of and kept in mind that this law, made right about this 20 percent, will be broken, as we peasants say "on the coat of arms of farmers, or workers". I'm sorry, and that would end, which is not Mr. Vesenov here, to remind him, when he was an opposition in the past term, with me, we sat there as an opposition, he suggested a lot of things, and I can't say that he didn't make a good suggestion, when it comes to agriculture, or the release of agriculture from intrusion. Now, he's the Minister of Agriculture, he's actually Babovic now, and I would ask him -- why now he just doesn't implement what he suggested about agriculture and I would support him with two hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3201	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3202	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have heard the support of Mr. Secretary of Finance and his tax reform, which continues to give us all the way here. Apparently, there was a small inflation impact, and as parameters, it was served by trading houses, such as "apple", "C-market", "Pekabeta", etc. The conditions in which these companies operate are monopolies in multiple respects. In the first place, they have a monopoly on the use of strategic products, such as sugar, oil, flour, goods that are from stock stores, they have a monopoly on a large number of retail facilities, and thus blackmail a large number of producers with quantitative rebates, so that for them two, three percent, there - over here, it doesn't mean anything. However, their policy so far has succeeded, for example. that one agricultural and industrial combination, which was a giant, one of the largest food producers in Serbia, stood on the verge of collapse. According to some information I have, PIC "Tavo" sent about 60% of the workers on a forced vacation from about ten days ago. It was a policy that was conducted by these trading houses, which promise that there will be no inflationary impact. The fact is, a number of items were collected and cheaped. Where it is viewed - it is seen in the first place which are the cheap products of technical goods, cosmetics, alcoholic beverages, and whiskey. There, Mr. Minister has now made his colleague, Minister Veselinov, a problem, because this one will have to be made out of stained veins to supplement that part of the budget with its own merit, but I just don't know how Veselin will react when he finds out that Minister Djelic has also issued a 20% agricultural tax. What's most basic and what's really expensive is food. So far, there has been no more serious inflation, for the reason that old supplies are still being spent, so it was only a correction, price fluctuation, on the change in tax rates, and I would have to inform Mr. Minister that management committees of leading manufacturers and meat and meat products processors sat down on Friday and made decisions on price correction, not down, but uphill. So prices are rising. Now we are proposed in the gross salary law to tax and a warm meal. There again comes one fact that, so the employer can now choose between two things -- one thing is that a warm meal and a regress for a vacation don't pay at all, which inevitably leads to a drop in living standards, and at least I'm surprised at the reason -- why it's taxing. Because by paying off a warm meal and a vacation regress, the taxpayers indirectly, through the purchase of food and other goods needed for life, were re-charging the budget. So he's gonna have to count on that side not being able to use it anymore. There is another alternative for employers to raise prices, but, with price hikes, inflation occurs. Inflation, which Mr. Djelic, the minister, planned by 30%, mostly due to price fluctuations in the world prices of the product, again seems strange to me, because in the world, and perhaps Western European prices are interesting to him, the worker works on average for 1,500 to 2,000 marks, and in our case works for 150, 200 marks and less. In any case, it must be kept in mind that this labour price also affects the reduction of that world price in our market. I'd also like to tell you that the regress pay and a warm meal affects about 15 percent of the product manufacturer's price. Ten percent went to pay, with all the contributions going, and five percent went to a warm meal and a regress for an annual vacation. Now, if the employer wants to pay for it, he has to charge another five percent in the production price. That was at the manufacturer's. You must count that even service companies dealing with the transport of goods, for the same reasons, have to charge another five percent. Also, sales are another five percent, retailing another five percent. Someone uninformed, who doesn't know the math, and it's already been proved by Minister Djelic here once, if he didn't know, I'd say that's an inflation of 20%. However, it must be clear to him that this inflation is going to geometric progress, because five percent goes to five percent, and yet five percent can't be 20 percent, and we're already coming to that part that's approaching the 30 percent inflation, and yet not all services taxes, which have been increased from 10 per cent to 20 per cent and are not yet calculated, the new electricity price, which will certainly reflect that. Once again, we come to a geometric progression, which increases inflation and will stop in June or July to 60%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3203	The People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3204	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the public in Serbia, if not us MPs, is increasingly convinced that we really have an expert government. Why do we have an expert government? It'll show time. One of these professional laws is this income tax. With this law, we are definitely entering Europe. In addition, it is in the light of this legislative act: inclusion in European and world integration. So, this is an expert government, which is constantly advocating comprehensive economic reforms, even in the field of fiscal laws. Here, we now have one such proposal, I think it's acceptable and we could say that it is, that as a basis for income tax instead of net, it is now taking a gross amount. But it's something else. Advocacy for gross instead of net, can be acceptable, but in the second bush lies a rabbit. By crossing and approaching Europe, by calculating the base on gross amounts, apparently this expert government has found a way to fill the budget. No more stories, six billion dollars promised. If they'll ever talk again, it's a big question. And the Americans don't have time to distract us anymore, and the experts won't talk to us about it anymore. This year's budget needs to be filled, and we'll find a way. One of those ways is this one. What's interesting, which is, is that you're really going to tax a hot meal. A hot meal, the fact is, was an economic item in the company's economic business, on which tax has not been paid so far. A warm meal, in some ways, did not play a warm meal in many businesses. Because these are additional funds that employees could take home for the total income per family. Now a warm meal is taxed. In the conditions in which he operates and how the economy works, the question is whether the employer will find even one basis to pay for a warm meal in the future. If there is no longer a warm meal, the employer will, in that way, be exempt from paying taxes on it. Apparently, the social categories in the thinking of these experts from France are gone. It's obvious there isn't. There'll be a regress tax. If I do it all over again, we'll come back to the fact that the employer will slowly avoid paying and regressing. By paying the regress in cash, he'll have to pay his taxes. The failure to pay the regress reduces the gross amount, reduces the tax base and thus indirectly "helps" the social picture of the workforce in this country. What do they need, it's hard for them, and now it's just gonna be harder for them. Taxes will be paid through this gross income, through gross earnings and on travel expenses. I can do the same thing again. It's paid, and it's not tax-free or student scholarships, or scholarships for athletes, and what about "little privates". Avoiding that there are no more pauses, what is transparent and what this expert government is constantly saying will be transparent, we are coming to the conclusion that a large mass of private, "small entrepreneurs", because of the inability to pay a flat tax will close its activities, and besides that is the goal of this expert government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3205	Can't it be a little quiet in the front row?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3206	All shut down, nothing to do, empty factories to offer to Western stakeholders. There seems to be expertise, there's that entry and integration with Europe, there's that circle closing. Further poverty of economy, further poverty of employment, and even agriculture, but it doesn't matter. It is important that we integrate into Europe, it is important that Europe comes to buy everything that is going to be very cheap. For workers no one asks, experts travel Paris-Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3207	The word has a folk MP, Stevo Dragisic, and after that, MP Milutin Svedovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think, first of all, that this bill should have been considered within these points of the agenda, which will be held in a united debate, because this bill on income tax of citizens has much more similarity to those points of the agenda than, say, housing law. This bill will, in part, have a direct impact on the business of the company, on the business of our economy, on the profits that employees in these companies will also receive on the tax to be paid to the state on that profit. However, this bill should not only be considered as a simple legal act, which we are going to discuss today, but rather as a consequence of the general economic policy, which the Republic Government is trying to implement with us, which is based mostly on foreign aid. This law on income tax is one of the instruments that the government wants to fill the budget for this year and for each coming year, of course. When we discussed the budget, we could see that the government was planning a budget deficit of 22 billion dinars. The government has honestly confessed and said it has a intention and hopes to fill it, and above all, the money it needs to come from abroad. That money, which is supposed to come from abroad, can come under a variety of visions, as a donation, as a gift, as an investment in the economy, under any kind of form. This is all conditioned by political events and events in our country. As they say, with a degree of democratisation of our country. So, economic reform, tax reform, economic policy, is directly based on foreign investment, or on foreign aid. This government has not given us MPs or the public any way to know that it will at least try to put our country on its feet by training some domestic resources, but all planning, all economic measures rely solely on assistance from abroad. To get help from abroad, there are certain conditions that this government must meet. Some of these conditions have begun to be met, and one of these is, say, the delivery of war crimes suspects to The Hague. We'll see what conditions await us in the future. But, aware that she can't expect the 100% aid she's been planning, let's just say the six billion dollars DOS has been talking about in the election campaign, the government is now trying to expand tax revenues on a variety of grounds, to fill a hole in the budget that she's designed for this year of 22 billion dinars. However, it seems that the government has forgotten one fact, that our economy is in a very bad state, that the largest number of employees, held as employees, in this country in the social sector, that the private sector is as successful as possible, someone less, that 50% of the revenues made in the country are from the private sector, and that the smallest number of employees is in this private sector. There is a need for privatisation, so any future economic policy will have to count on major social problems that will cause privatisation and major social problems that will cause this package of tax laws that are on the agenda today, as well as those we adopted in the adoption of the budget. The government, which we are just discussing, has abolished the possibility of paying off some incomes, which were not previously called earnings, and they were called regress, a warm meal and some other types of income, which are now entering a profit that is being taxed at a rate of 14%. Given that companies will be notified to pay their contributions and when they do not pay their employees' earnings, we will be in a position to force businesses to fire workers who will now become a great burden to them. I remind you again that the largest number of employees are in social enterprises. Social enterprises have never been able to create some black funds, so they pay out of these black funds to black employees, and they avoid paying for social and pension insurance. This was done by private companies, many private companies, when they were unable to pay social security contributions, or had black workers or paid black wages to those who were registered. But it's the smallest number of employees in our country. The largest number of employees is in the social sector. The social sector has never been able to carry out such a kind of avoidance of obligations to the state, because it is simply incompetent to do so. When they didn't pay their contributions, they didn't pay their salaries, so they were late for a year or two, a few months. In this way you will force companies to mass lay off workers and you will have a major social problem. I don't know if the government's been thinking about this problem, how much it's going to be, whether it's prepared for that situation, but that's the situation we're sure ahead of us. This will lead to the definitive destruction of these companies, allowing these companies to be sold out for very cheap money. The question is what benefits the state will also benefit from privatisation when it is carried out over these companies. I remember the privatisation minister's promise, which said we'd soon have a new privatisation law. That privatisation bill hasn't shown up yet. According to what the minister had promised at the time, the law should have been at some sort of public debate long ago, I don't even know what he meant by that time, but that law still doesn't exist. And the question is, how is this big, big, huge economic problem that we still have going to solve? Is this problem going to cause a new problem, which is the social problem of those people who are going to have to lose their jobs? On the other hand, this law will do a lot of damage to those who have so far paid their taxes on a flat-rate basis. You said it was a rule so far for some kind of performance, and that in the future it would be an exception. Did you, in your thinking, when you passed this law, manage to assess how much grassroots businesses would be damaged in this way, how many of them would not be able to pay that tax and how many of them would have to close down their actions, which so far could function, which so far have provided them with any income to maintain their family's basic needs? I mean, and that is the conclusion based on all the draft laws that we have so far had the opportunity to see and to discuss, that the government has not taken enough care of the social aspect and the social problems that these laws will cause.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3209	The word has a National MP Milutin Svedovic, followed by a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3210	Dear People's Elections, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. President, since I do not have the right to reply to the Rules of Procedure, I am reporting that the SRS gentleman, Mr. Arsic, said one untruth here, which is that the PIC "Tavo" from Gornji Milanovac sent 60% of the workers on a forced vacation. That's not true. PIK's leadership "Sovo" agreed with both trade unions that only those who express their wish could go on paid leave. That fits the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3211	The word has a National MP Slobodan Tomovic, followed by a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3212	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, esteemed members of the Government, colleagues and fellow MPs, the reason for my announcement is that I do not accept the speaker's manners that the budget fills with tax accounts, and that in no document, it says anything in any word about the key matter, which is how it thinks it provides economic growth and improves the conditions of submission to those who need to create a basis for taxation. I will not compromise this opportunity on the types of income that should be taxed and on the grounds by which this taxation should be carried out. I would just like to say a few words from the experience of a longtime businessman about the ambience in which most of our businesses or business entities are located, as it is said. So at this point, we have neither clearly defined production programmes, nor clearly defined markets, nor an economic environment that will allow us to develop these production programmes, to reach new markets, etc. So we don't have any favourable loans or a number of other things. I'll explain why we don't have one. There's what's called big unemployment. There is an environment where it is very important to survive this situation, to preserve existing labour, to preserve some production programs, and to preserve people who are qualified and trained to do certain jobs during which these jobs can work. We in this way, by making money and what is now called a regress and a warm meal, which in certain situations served as one catalyst, because people came to work to receive only a warm meal, in this way and we deny that possibility. I'm not for anything that's relatively taxable, not taxable, but I am for it to be done selectively. I did to create a business environment first, and then to proceed with the procedure. From here I don't think it's a good service for businesses that what could have been used so far could have been used, deliberately said used rather than abused, that it can't be used, so I urge that this law be transformed so much that, when it comes to making money, it would have given up taxing warm meals and regresses at this point, and if it can't be done, at least it would have been delayed for a while. I'm saying this because in this room, and from this pay phone, we've heard a lot of times about the system of connected courts, and by the Republic Prime Minister and by Mr. Djelic, who are answering questions about what not to be taxed, said - where you're going to do it. So that's my question - if you're going to do it now, have you figured out how much people are going to be forced to use social programs and whether these interventions based on this tax base will be enough, when most businesses come to us in a situation that workers have to use social aid, will they be able to do so from these or some other procedures? If Mr Djelic answers this question positively, therefore that it has been taken into account and that so many funds will be collected in this way, and that only so many businesses will come into the situation to use social aid and some money that should be allocated for it, and that this will be covered by it, I will vote for it. Otherwise, at this point, I do not believe in it, and I cannot advocate that this law be passed and therefore I ask that at least the modification be considered whether this basis or not be accepted immediately or that the decision to implement it should be postponed for a time, until things are in principle balanced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3213	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic, followed by MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3214	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, it is quite clear that when a budget is adopted that does not show the expected revenues, which it hides, which is based on black funds, then the laws that should support and fill that budget are also bad. When a student in a secondary economic school is tasked with forming a budget, starting from the very beginning, he shows a deficit in the budget, leaving an item called the current budget reserve on the bulky side of the budget, the student gets a unit. The deficit budget, at least in current practice and economic science, does not know or recognise the item of the budget reserve. Such laws create, apart from this moment, and absolutely unrealized revenue side of the budget, simple accounting actions. If we take as a rapper the amount of imported excise goods in the last year and multiply it by the amount of excise duty under the new Excise Act, we get an amazing figure of over 60 billion dinars, which is very easy to calculate. The budget shows an item of 25 billion dinars. It is no wonder, therefore, that without words and comments, the government has reduced the excise on oil derivatives of 10 billion dinars, not blinking and not changing the revenue side of the budget or even spending, not showing a budget deficit of 10 billion dinars. The income of 60 or over 60 billion dinars, obtained with a simple bill, has not been shown, and this is the basic evidence that this budget will rely on black funds, as I say, that because of this, these revenues will remain hidden, the hand will be deeply in the pocket of every Serbian citizen. This means that alimony of public revenues for all budget users will fall on Serbian citizens. This means that it is clear to this government that there is nothing from the promised assistance from abroad. Contrary to tax practices from all over the world, where medicines, child products, books, textbooks and other food products are taxed at least twice the rate, all products and services, including income from citizens, and these incomes that the citizens themselves couldn't imagine to achieve, are taxed with 20%. That is what is so far imposed on the citizens of Serbia. But that's not all. After this there are also laws on corporate tax, on property, on holding, using and carrying certain things, about six laws that will stick their hand in the pocket of each Serbian resident. That pocket is empty. It's not empty anymore, it's hollowing your pocket, Mr. Minister, and nothing smart can be found in your hollow pocket. You've put the whole burden of the state on the shoulders of the consumer, here's how. By cutting customs duties on import goods first, and then taxing. Now Serbian citizens will buy imported products. That's how your solutions are completely choked by domestic production. The production was already exhausted by the sanctions and bombing of your friends. Your government's foreign exchanges are "transparent" and "fair". It is transparent to translate and transparent, which will say that your authority is transparent, as well as the vast majority of government members, who lack only money to be fair. Mr. Minister, your solutions are making me more and more convinced of my findings from last session that the two of us are exactly the same, starting with the name and beyond. I discovered that you and I loved at least two things in life that we didn't really understand at all. I loved, for example, space technology and women, and you, look at finance and economics. How do we support the draft law tabled by the minister, which says inflation was 7.6% in the first trimester, and then says it's 30% at the end of the year, so 7.6% times 4, that's 30%. It's 30%, but it's the same financial unit. The unit is also obtained when the plans for economic development as a basic parameter take optimism, optimism that Europe and the world will give money. Europe and the world won't give up money, they didn't give up anywhere. You talked to our neighbors, didn't give them to them either. This optimism of yours reminds you of a man who walks into a restaurant with no dinar in his pocket, orders shells, and then hopes to find a pearl there to pay the bill. There are no more pearls in the pockets of Serbian citizens. There's no one left to pay you a tax on property, income tax, car tax, non-received income tax, income tax, income tax, income tax, financial transaction taxes that are even more burdensome and tax on a fund that he doesn't even remember. There's no money with the people. He's not here to let you take pictures of yourself and make our cities beautiful. They won't let you take pictures on TV and tell your truths. The only thing that you've done well is that people don't buy TVs anymore, they buy your posters and glue them, they're cheaper, they don't say anything, and they're even nicer. And you're saying, which is amazing, and what even seven-year-old kids can't believe -- you're saying that rising prices won't affect the cost of living. If that's true, I'm sure he'll get the Nobel Prize for stupidity. You're saying it's necessary to pass these laws, that these laws come from necessity, and it's not true that the necessity of the law changes. It doesn't change the law of necessity, gentlemen of the government, the law changes the pole and that suspicious purity.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3215	Minister Djelic picked up the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3216	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to comment briefly on a few steps here at three or four points. First, the story of inflation, the most important thing in our country that has experienced two hyper inflations in the last 10 years, is that we are not playing with it now. It's a dangerous game. I'm here to offer you a few facts. The inflation last year was about 113%, it was the highest because the outgoing government, it was among the last things they did, all those prices, which they administered, which they depressed for two or three years, suddenly released, and that's why we had a 27% inflation rate in October and 18% in November. And so we came up with that inflation and where it came from. Responsible monetary and budgetary policy in the last quarter allowed that inflation rate to fall below 1% and 2% in December and January. Then we reached a rate that was 3.2% and 3.3%. This role was played by municipal services, as many local self-governments raised prices, but we already had an inflation rate of 0.9% in March. This is what is now the original inflation, this is what carries the country's responsible leadership, the responsible monetary and fiscal policy. I want all MPs and all our citizens to know that in April, the inflation rate will be slightly higher, estimated between 4 and 6%. It'll be one time in April, because at the same time we'll have two or three things, first of all this tax reform. I never said everything would stay zero, there would be a few minor effects, but it's extremely irresponsible to talk about about 20, 15%, it's absolutely not true. We're going to have this effect that we estimate between 1-2, 3% maximum. We will have an effect in case the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as it is likely willing, approves the decision and approves the first rise in electricity via the EPS Management Board. That electricity price has to go up, otherwise we'll never be able to break up our economy, otherwise it will continue to radiate and dispel indifference in other economic factors and economics. So that's what we have to do and that's why we're going to have something bigger in April, but controlled inflation. You will see already in May and June that inflation will again be much less. I think it's such an important thing that for our citizens we have to make facts, clean accounts, not listen to those that have produced two hyper inflations in the last 10 years and 113% last year. It's a responsible path. As for the gross salary, that would be my second point here, we hear a lot of people now saying we're going to lift a hot meal. Dear MPs, that's not true. A hot meal, a regress, a field supplement hasn't been lifted. Like many, they may not even have understood when they spoke, and admitted, they have long been paid, earned. That's what our people have long seen as a profit. By introducing a gross salary, we no longer want to sell the future of our citizens. We don't want tens and hundreds of thousands of our citizens to retire and suddenly they're told that they thought they were paying for a pension of two, three, four or five thousand, and then they're told, "I'm sorry, because of a warm meal, a regress, because of such an irresponsible system, your pension will be only 800 dinars." At that moment, the time bomb, which the former regime put into Serbia's heart, will explode by wanting to delay any solution to the problem. They were just stockpiling up problems and every day the danger is getting bigger and bigger. We in a responsible way want to disarm that time bomb, to go the right way. And that MP who's talking about whether something is planned for some combinations, which are going to be something more difficult, of course it is, we'll talk about it if you want tomorrow and the next few days. It is responsible to lead one country, both socially and economically, not to distort the entire system, not to sell the future of all our citizens, much of them, because they want to solve the problem of one combination and one company. That way we won't be running politics anymore, I guarantee you that. As for black funds and some cardiac reserves, it's a little hard to accept that from those who still last year had 40% of their budgets filled with special accounts, sublegal acts, various taxes, which were introduced without this parliament knowing it. [[Applause]] That's why our media and our citizens didn't know exactly what the imposition was, exactly what the intervention was. I think it's brave and fair what we're doing right now, and this first piece of the package and this second package, all our citizens see it as a palm. These laws and these texts allow them to see what tax is, what is paid and how much is it. And we see for ourselves the first wave of this sales tax proves that there is no greater intervention than our citizens. At this point, there is no release, we cannot release and reduce the arrest of both citizens and businesses. What have we decided at this point? Given the situation, we've decided at this point that the priority is to release and dissipate the economy. Therefore, when we correct the situation through the introduction of gross wages, as already indicated, we will start to dissipate already in those salaries that will be paid in June. An additional 8 to 10% contribution will be reduced and our citizens will immediately feel it in their pocket. The employers will see that this government has gone the right way. Dear honourable MPs, I'd just like to say, someone here said that this government, I don't take anything personally, likes finance and economics. So they wouldn't like it, so they wouldn't be interested. Times are such that we have to deal with these things of life, but what we and I personally love most, that's Serbia and that's what we're going to stand for in these months and years. Thank you very much. [[Buran applause.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-09-0.u3217	If there are no more registered MPs besides Mr Rajko Baralic, I would suggest that we listen to the last MP and put the bill in principle to the vote. That's what I'm suggesting more for "aesthetic reasons" than for haste, to really round up this session today that way. (One voice will be another voice.) If it is, then I'll interrupt the session and we'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to establish a quorum to see if we have any conditions to continue the session. Please confirm the quorum. I'm taking a 15-minute break. .
