ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3724	Since tomorrow is a big Friday, today is a big Thursday, I suggest, because of our colleagues from the interior to get home as soon as possible, to move the work of today's session to 18 hours (aplause, MP Natasa Jovanovic comes forward for a word, according to the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3725	Mr. President of the National Assembly, you said the ministers and the entire government were invited to attend the sittings. I must remind you that the debate continues in principle on the agenda point, a package of tax laws from 5 to 11. Since there's no one from the government, I don't know if it makes sense to call the first person who's scheduled to go out for a pay phone and speak. Therefore, it would be best to wait for Mr Djelic and the government ministers to come and then continue the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3726	There's nothing to comment on here. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I've notified who's been invited. I would like to put on a vote by MP Popovic that we are working until 18 o'clock today. For 137, one, abstentioned four, did not vote 13, a total of 155 MPs present. I agree that we have accepted this proposal and that today we will finish work at 18 o'clock, noting that this session will continue at 10 o'clock. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - COMMUNITY PRIORITY REFERENCE ON THE GROUP OF Tax LAWS ( CONTINUE) We continue a joint principled search on proposals for corporate tax, property, use and carrying of goods, financial transactions, a fund for the change of the housing law and local self-government. There is a word from the MP of the people, Srboljub Zivanovic, and then the MP of the people Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3727	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, until some time ago Serbia has found itself at the crossroads of its existence. She's now on her way back, through her destruction. It seems that Serbia has received its Mesic (I think more Mesic). I've always followed this pay phone with the agenda and the courtesy because I realized - being a MP is a great honor and obligation. Yesterday, Agriculture Minister Vesenov said, "Vojvodina cannot wait for the crisis in Kosovo and Metohija-Montenegro to be resolved first, she wants its independence." Vesenov also said that no grain of wheat since this year's harvest will leave the territory of the province, i.e. "Let every reap what he sows." Vesenov declares that Vojvodina is entitled to a referendum on its future. I ask you what to say after this, does this man deserve to continue to be a minister? I appeal to all of you as citizens of this country to fence ourselves against this statement, to declare our mistrust with this man and the minister, to take away his parliamentary immunity and to arrest him and his like. Enough of this country's five-collars. The economic and political situation in the past period of DOS has adversely affected the implementation of the fiscal system reform, which was launched earlier by the adoption of tax rules. The tax system, which has until then been established on the principle of market economy, has not been fully and consistently implemented during the DOS period, but has been greatly violated and decomposed by solutions that have deviated from the principles of neutrality, transparency and the fairness of taxes and other public taxes. The reforms launched in the previous period by the reconstruction of the country's monetary system and economic recovery began to produce major results until the October DOS revolution. Instead of regulating the entire complex of property taxation and ensuring that there is clear demarcation and preventing the abuse of certain institutes, the proposed package of tax laws further stimulates tax avoidance and abuse. Instead of accessing an analysis of the existing fiscal system, with the basic idea of making it more efficient, simpler and regular with the appropriate upgrade, and thus responding to market orientation, you are making it more complicated by changing existing solutions, allegedly wanting to be similar to the tax systems of the European Union. The guidelines for the upgrade of the corporate tax system are based on the expansion of the tax base with the retention of the low tax rate. The Law on local self-pourage aims to achieve greater independence of municipalities, i.e. cities, in deciding on the degree of burden on the debtors from their territory, or to increase decentralisation, which is a clear failure. Gentlemen, we live in a time when certain municipalities and cities were more or less exposed to war and sanctions, their businesses were destroyed or damaged, so that the revenues for financing municipalities or cities were reduced to a minimum. And that's why I think these funds should have been centralized, from where certain programmes should be given as needed and implemented by municipalities and cities. The draft financial transaction tax law wants to bring all the laws together, and this is the law on the provision of funds for the reconstruction of the country, the Law on the provision of funds for the removal of earthquakes in the Kolubar district, the Law on the provision of funds for the implementation of the Republic of Serbia's programme. These laws need to be abolished because a six-billion-dollar donation is due. When it arrives, it needs to be activated immediately. I must say, there is one tendency that this congregation in general, in its work, is understood exclusively as legislative. We're not just here to pass laws, we're here -- much more -- to control law enforcement. It just stands out here, in one very important place, that we have the right to control. The DOS government has not consulted the unions regarding the adoption of these laws. Now they don't need unions anymore. The unions have become social cases. The Tax Act on Use, Holding and Wearing of Goods suggests that any legal and natural person whose name is registered by a vehicle should pay taxes, whose height depends on engine volume. The citizens have been cheated again. They also want to tax their weapons, cell phones, and water facilities. We all know why these taxes were introduced. For rebuilding the country. It's an ugly past now. The funds for solid residential construction and compensation for the use of municipal goods of general interest amounted to 1.3% and are now proposed 3.5%, which is unrealistic and unreal. I've given more amendments to the proposed laws. I'll explain them when it's their turn. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia's economy is in collapse. There's no factory in the Sabbath community that works. If which one works, it works with reduced capacity. The Zorka Holding company used to employ 10,000 workers, and now some factories are going bankrupt. These are your pre-election promises of good life and work. You seduced the working people with promises and lies about a six-billion-dollar donation. Also, none of the meditative companies work, but one at a time they go bankrupt. When the company changes director, when he comes to power, he takes over all corporate obligations, so he can't keep pulling on the former director. So do you. It's about 100 days away. We'll see what the government says then. Serbia is in great fear today. Any taxpayer who fails to comply with the tax obligations can be arrested and imprisoned. He's not even calm at night. By this law, you can pay at night. There is no Mr. Jovanovic here, whom I wanted to tell that every substance knows well. He was neither a worker nor an intellectual from the economy, and I don't believe a peasant, so every substance knows well, even though I don't think he distinguishes a domestic animal from a wild animal. It's democracy, Mr. Jovanovic, when everyone in this country has salaries...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3728	Mr. MP, please adjust your exposure to the situation. Mr. Jovanovic is not present. There is a word from MP Zoran Radovanovic. After him, the Messenger of the people Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3729	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, a large number of members of the ruling coalition are not coming to the assembly sessions. My story totally lost its concept. There's no one from the proper government, from the departments. There is no Minister Djelic, there is no Minister Batic, there is no Head of Parliament, Mr Ceda is not there, there is no Minister of Agriculture, so we'll talk a little differently. Ladies and gentlemen of the DOS MPs, you are today continuing to carry on and bring a whole series of laws, extremely ridiculous but painful to the people. Taxing everything and everything confirms your claim that you don't lie at all, you promised to cancel all taxes, but you introduced taxes, taxes and everything else. You have not promised this to the people, so do not be angry with you. Mr. Djelic said that it is good that everything is ahead of us and before the people and that we can discuss it here and bring the right judgment. It is true that we can discuss your draft laws, but it is even more accurate that the overall knowledge of our Socialists or other members of the opposition parties you refuse, you do not vote for their proposals, you do not even accept the amendments submitted by your MPs. And you refuse those amendments. You just work like a voting machine. That's not good. That's what the people will punish in the next election. Minister Djelic said he would reduce the grey economy by 50%. I invite Mr. Minister to come to Nis on Saturday and Sunday for the holidays, so I'll take him to the flea market, see how the gray economy blooms at that market, how goods are sold from shops at the market. My thesis will be confirmed that the grey economy will increase by over 50%, not decrease. I have submitted four amendments to your laws. In all four laws, I've asked you to take off your charge for 100%. I have two reasons for that. The first reason is that you can fool yourself, so you really take off those restraints, and the second reason is the bargaining. It could be half-and-half, so you can take off half of what you said, which you would help the people. I'll review the amendments, each and every one of them, when I report for those amendments. However, I must note, in principle, that it is a luxury and a car for you, and a mobile phone, and a fishing boat. For you, luxury has served every single thing in Serbia for many years for regular and normal use. In a package of laws that Mr. Toma Nikolic has proposed for taxation, I suggest you include luxury goods and roller skates, because they cost about 100 German marks, as well as digitron, because it's luxurious to count with a digitron, when it can be counted "walks". After Minister Djelic arrived, to repeat that I invited him to come to Nis, to see how the grey economy flourishes, after that first package of laws, let's see what we do next. According to the grammatical rule, according to our colleague, Mrs Micic, once upon a folk MP and Vice President Mrs Comic, whom I greatly appreciate for four children, for helping the Serbian people...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3730	Mr. Ambassador, please speak of legal proposals. You haven't started that yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3731	Since we're talking about the bill of conduct, bearing and using goods, my next sentence, Mr. President, is that your co-worker on your right once said that Serbs shouldn't make history, but cheese and wine, like the French. To remind her and all of you that in Serbian history, weapons have always been Dick and Pride. I can't imagine a Serb without a weapon. I invite both the minister and all of you, who are now laughing, to come to a real Serbian wedding, to come to the joy of having a male child, to see a Serb shoot. Well, it's no big deal, you've taxed it, so all these people are gonna return their weapons, so it's gonna be easier for you, too. Mr. President, there's too much here in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3732	There's no big mess, you're interested in your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3733	Mr. President, the DOS voting machine cannot be interested. They vote by conscience, vote for the goodness of their people. Everything the opposition says, it's all rejected, so there's no need to interest them. You may interest them in your meetings of the congregation, so it will be easier for us. My dear MPs, the laws you have proposed by the people will be appreciated. Just to remind this group that's been winning all along, a few days ago in the DSS, the SPS, DOS in the famous Odjaks, there were three, two, zero votes. Just laugh, this was five days ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3734	The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Rada Bajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3735	The Honorable Presidency, respected and esteemed MPs, presented this package of the second round of tax policy laws, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia presented as the perspective of our Serbia and Yugoslavia, both citizens and businesses. Since I have not submitted a single amendment, I will briefly express my opinion on these legal solutions. In the company's profit tax law, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I believe that the provisions of article 39 say that this proportional rate of taxation is destructive, rather than stimulating, to get enterprises, as explained in this legal act. It's not stimulating, as you say, that's the rate taken from the previous legal solution, where we Socialists have been in power for the past 10 years, so we've ruined it all. And if we've ruined all this, then it can't be at this rate of 20%, the same rate as it was 10 years ago. If that's not exactly what it's said and how it's supposed to be a little different, as the amendment applicants have said to this percentage, I can say that in the past 10 years, our country and our economy have been in the state they've been in. If, with that rate of 20% of the corporate profit tax, our businesses have worked in such conditions of a difficult economic situation and blockade, in the conditions of NATOaggression and all those factors that have significantly affected business operators as economic indicators, then it cannot be a stimulating rate, if it is the same rate as it was in the previous regime. Therefore, Comrade Minister, I believe that there is a basis for this proposal in the amendment, you need to reduce this rate, because then you are going to run a point of opportunity that is very important to all of us here who live and work in this beautiful Serbia. As far as the property tax law is concerned, I can say that there has been a burden on all citizens, including all taxpayers, especially businesses. Here, as I understand it, the rate is 0.4% uniform, and it was 0.2%. This is no incentive if the property of economic operators is taxed and is released from taxing the property of public enterprises, or as said in Article 20, to be released from property tax in social property by those users through state authorities, service organisations, territorial organisation units and local self-government. Well, if it's a release for a number of facilities that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has, then, in this context of these proposals, it could also be a special space: workshops, factory halls, those companies that can work, that can speed up and bring about a better one. As for the legal solution in the Bill of Taxes on Use, Sticking and Wearing Goods, I don't think the word "good" is defined here. What's "good"? In the bill, it is said that these are good: use, wear, hold arms and other firearms. But good things can be natural, and others can be good. Since it's all taxed, and it's not taxed air, I think we have the opportunity here to tax something else that's not mentioned here. According to our colleague Natasa Jovanovic, she was watching the show, and I was reading the newspaper, a country in the world, I can't say exactly which one, taxed the sun, so I think I can make a proposal to tax the sun's energy, because it's the only one here that's not taxed. The air to leave so we can tax it some other time. As far as the proposal for a law on financial transactions is concerned, I believe that solutions from the previous law have been taken over. But if the finance ministry has made such a proposal, then it needs to be a little more realistic and suggest something that is constructive, stimulating. Not only do financial transactions are taxed through a viral route, but also other securities of value. So, agnition, cesium, compensation, etc. Article 4 states that tax obligations arise in the provision of payment services.... In Article 11, the calculation, the payment of such a financial transaction shall take place on the day the transaction took place, and the payment of those taxes shall take place immediately the next day. That wouldn't be so if we had a liquid economy, that we had a strong ability to pay for it all. No economic operator would be mad at this solution if the communication of cash flows moved the way it did. But we can't do that to the economy, to settle taxes and contributions to financial transactions, for example, for compensation, so for these securities of value and to pay taxes within the deadline laid down. So right now, it's the next day in money, by the way, when we know that our economy's liquidity is not regulated and resolved by this tax system. I believe, Comrade Minister, that this issue should be resolved and it is for the benefit of both you and all the people who work in the economy and who do everything to make it better. As far as the Housing Act is concerned, I don't think it's much of a suggestion, because only one member is changing. The provision of 44th existing Law and a percentage of 1.3% for the separation for solid residential construction should be abolished and transferred to local incomes. I think that Serbia's citizens, especially workers and those who have received those funds, or apartments, should hear well and think about this and cast their votes in the next election. I believe that the government should withdraw this bill and find another solution, to keep these 1.3% still in the existing law and set a deadline, from one year to two days, and by that deadline, what should be paid for when building apartments of solidarity. Where those apartments that have already been built will now be paid, and by that time new instructions for housing should be found, according to our building minister, because of the housing of living workers, living citizens, living businesses, and our government, which is assessed for the success of the ministry's work, also lives. I propose that this bill be withdrawn and that a solution be given to resolve the issue in one time. On this problem, whether there are irregularities and negativity, there is an independent judiciary in DOS that will handle it nicely in a way that needs to be solved, not in this way that it now solves.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3736	Please go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3737	I got two more minutes. I believe that what has been done with our president of the parliamentary group, the MP... (President: This will be discussed specifically at the next session. Please, let's discuss the laws. ..... That's not the way. This is the moment for us, as socialists, to point out, because I don't think this is right to do this to any MP. (President: Please don't open that question right now. ) As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, I am able to make the following comment, which is that the funds and obligations of the abolished regulation that regulates housing construction with 1.3% and the existing municipal contribution that was in the source of the public income of the Republic have been transferred to local self-government. However, there is a serious observation here about this. Transferring right to local self-government is fine, but these funds were dedicated, one for solid housing, and the other for building infrastructure facilities. I don't know how now the existing solutions, given from June 1st, are going to liven it up, to build a municipal infrastructure. You may understand it or not, but I, who work in this area, do not know how 16 regional agricultural systems will depend on the lives of all our citizens (President: Time). If one municipality decides to install it and another municipality does not make such a decision, can the system be built at all. Therefore, I believe that this should, within the framework of the amendments that people have submitted, be resolved. Finally, the Bill of Taxes on the Fund, 3.5% of gross income. It should be provided in the way that it has been foreseen so far, even in those legal solutions to say what purposes they have, that these 3.5% be for or for solid housing, how much, and how much to solve municipal infrastructure problems. Finally, the final comment, that this all makes one solution to the second stage of adopting one regulation that follows us in June of the month, which is the law on ownership transformation, which we have not passed. The ownership transformation will be made once the economy is so burdened and the citizens are so weak that the new legal solution will be easy to implement. There will be a German who will bring that money and buy our entire economy, and the citizens will think and give voice to those they trust.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3738	The People's MP Rada Bajic has the word, followed by the MP Marko Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3739	Dear President, honourable MPs, I once said here that every tax policy must have a social note and must be socially colored. It must therefore be adapted to the conditions and situation in the country concerned and according to the property of taxpayers. So it must have as the starting point social standard and the personal standard of the population and then start from the starting point to make concentration circles and introduce the tax system. You know what this country has been through over the past ten years -- hermetically imposed sanctions, because it seems that the powerful world is introducing our country and opting on us as an experienced rabbit. The war in the environment, the war in the country, and you can see that it's all already fallen into the water, and all of those reasons that led to these hermetical sanctions being imposed, which are Markales and the markets in Sarajevo, or the bombing because of Račka, fell into the water, because not a single word is true, but was intended to punish this country and this people. I will refer to several laws of this set which has been proposed, and above all to the property law, to the amendment of the Housing Act and to the tax on the carrying of goods and possession of them. When it comes to property tax, I'll look back at one of you all known facts. I think it's a very strict tax policy when it comes to the Property Act. You are all witnesses that in suburban settlements and on the edges of cities, the last ten years have been the last very large houses, where the hosts wanted to, with their personal work and effort, make a house for themselves and their family, to put that whole family there. Practically, in the last ten years, it's been very difficult to come... (Mr. Minister, I never talk when you talk) In the town's border areas, houses have been found that are worth more than 300 thousand marks to a brother-brother. These are 300, 400 or 500 square meters buildings, where the housekeeper wanted the entire family to be put there out of the inability to come up with any other housing solution. He invested everything he had in that house, worked day and night. Practically, he didn't know if there was a vacation, whether there was a state holiday or a week, he was working all the time in his own direction, possibly having to introduce electricity or water immediately, which he didn't know. I'm saying, those houses must be worth over 300,000 marks, and you're all witnesses, who come from inside or from Vojvodina, what kind of houses they are and what value they have. Practically, they can't even sell them today because nobody has that money to pay for those houses. But that's why they've now been brought in terribly high taxes on them. At the start of 24,000 plus 0.8%, so we'll say no to the 70%, as a maximum, of the tax burden, that turns out to be a year's pay for such a house of about 28,000 dinars. That's over 2,200 dinars a month. If we assume that these people have invested themselves in, that they have invested in infrastructure, whether through self-delivery, whether through a building permit they had to pay for the municipality, they are double or triple-punished. I don't mind the people who got the apartment, but you know how they bought it, that they bought it for the fish's teps, for 100, 200 or 1,000 marks at most. In fact, they are being put in the same position as those who have invested so much money and so many years of their work in the house. As far as changing the House Act is concerned, there will be a real problem. Minister Schumarac put it out, but I think a lot of disadvantages stand and practically, it can't even be adopted. You know that the law, which was in force, provides that companies, public administration authorities, allocate 1.3% to gross personal incomes for solid housing, and that this is treated as local income, i.e. local self-government income, and also to use municipal goods up to 5%, depending on how much the Republic Government has determined, sometimes 3.5, but up to 5%. With these changes, it is now lifted. These revenues are abolished, as the municipality's local income, and gross earnings of up to 3.5% are introduced. What does that mean? Practically, it means that a 1.3% solidarity fund is abolished. Yes, the minister said, yesterday I learned that information, that it would likely adopt an amendment that goes from 0.3% to 1%. You all know that no municipality is satisfied with the funds in the budget, which has been recovered from the sales tax from the Republic, and with those revenues made in the municipality, that there are a number of problems in terms of municipal economy and that, in practice, all available funds will be invested in the municipal economy. Especially in technical systems, because from the use of municipal goods you know that over 50% had to be allocated to technical systems, which are heats and water lines, that the infrastructure of these systems is in very poor condition, that investments are obsolete and that, practically, since cities are expanding, connections to water and heat are increasing every year, that many resources need to be allocated to investment and current maintenance of these systems, i.e. to invest in new investments. The municipalities will take that priority, possibly that some will separate 0.3%. Don't tell me he's making up for it now, 'cause gross earnings go into the whole tax system. I don't suppose a warm meal, which is a quarter of the salary of the average, is now 900 dinars, and the salary of 4,000 dinars and something, or a regress that is paid once a year, and that's the question of whether companies pay off, is not going to pay taxes on those fees to satisfy, to raise 1% for residential construction. It will not increase its taxes four times to make up for a percentage of 1.3% for a solid residential building. I will point only to the data from Vojvodina, with them, that in the last year, about 213 million dinars were collected in Vojvodina, that some 257 apartments were built, and in larger cities, such as Novi Sad, about 80 apartments, Kikinda 50 apartments and so on, that it was planned much more in the following year, given that the average personal income grew, and for this I will give you an example that in 2001 it was collected from these funds 38 million, compared to the first month of 2000, when 15 million were collected. If it is considered that 5% of these funds have been allocated for families of people killed in fact since 17 August 1990, we are practically abolishing that percentage, that little help to these people. I repeat, again, 0.3% of what the municipalities introduce, if introduced, if the law does not regulate it, so it will not introduce, there will be a very small amount, and no one will resort to forming that fund and continue with the solidarity of housing. I'd like to refer to the Good Wearing Act. I'm surrounded by friends who, someone is involved in sports, and some other activity, there's a lot of hunters, everyone tells me it's unsustainable to have 3,000 dinars per year on the carbine, or for every 1,000 dinars. Since you know that besides that they all have a hunting rifle, and someone else and a gun, although I'm always a supporter of weapons, these are people who have experience, they're burdened with their own team, so to speak, with border taxes and taxes, it's practically unsustainable to have these kind of influences, and we're removing a very strong opportunity for people to deal with that sport. I think this assembly has to respect this, even though I have an amendment to it. I didn't want to take it because I know what the amendment is like when the Socialists file them or the opposition, and they practically refuse to read without reading, to keep in mind what I said and that the income that the state is going to make is meaningless, and it means a lot to these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3740	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3741	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am obliged to inform you that it is impossible for us Serbian radicals to participate in the work of the National Assembly because police have begun to arrest activists from the Serbian Radical Party. Tonight they're...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3742	Where is the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Seselj?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3743	This is according to the Rules of Procedure, I'm saying we're unable to participate in the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3744	It has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3745	Last night he was arrested by Nemanja Sarovic... (President: Mr. Seselj... )......................................................................................................... He is the chairman of the Serbian Radical Party's Municipal Committee of the Stari Grad, a dipl. The lawyer...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3746	Mr. Seselj, I warn you that we are not having this debate today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3747	... What he glued these stickers to is - DOS the worst. A few days ago, Miodrag Tomovic was detained from Zemun, for the same reason...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3748	Mr. Seselj, I take your word. Mr. Seselj, please leave the pay phone. (Vojislav Seselj puts a sticker on the pay phone. Please, he'll freak out, everyone knows it can't upset anyone. I ask you, however, not to abuse this pay phone for this sort of thing. You have the opportunity to hold a press conference in this building, as a parliamentary group, you have opportunities and are played on every television, in every newspaper of your party press conference and don't let us use the assembly pay phone for such exhibitions that are really unnecessary. The People's Messenger Marko Jaksic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Hranislav Peric. - Vladan Batic takes the sticker off the pay phone. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: How can executive power do this? ) He helped the service of the National Assembly, and I gave an order to the secretary to take it down, and he apparently helped.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3749	Ladies and gentlemen, on that people's note that everyone is crying over their grave, I wanted to take advantage of the presence of Minister Djelic, to make about one proposal, given the tax laws that are being presented to us here. I could have said it myself, but I'm counting on this speaker to have more effect. Namely, what's this about? Given the burdens and taxes envisaged, I want to make a proposal to set up a special fund, which is the Serb survival fund down in Kosovo and Metohija. Of which means and of which money, of which do they impose, and of which charge? It's just, of those powerful peddlers, of those powerful materials that roll down towards Kosovo every day. We down there know you just can't get across and you can't get to Serbia, from the very powerful helmets that are following you. It is those who persecute and banish Serbs that should separate the money for those Serbs to stay down in Kosovo and Metohija. It seems to me that it is a sum of 80 million dinars very small, if we have intentions, goals and plans, to do something for Serbs down there, if we intend to bring the Serbs back, if we want to bring back all the colleges that exist down there, if we want to enable people to survive down there. I say this because a large number of Serbs are out of work, have no income, cannot process their country, and pay the goods downstairs at twice the price compared to Serbia. If we're going to leave these people down there, they're not going to be hungry or out of freedom. On the other hand, we must not put boundaries down between Kosovo and Serbia, giving immediate opportunity to UNMIK administration members to set borders on the other side of Kosovo. I think it's a bad way and we have to avoid it, and there are certainly other ways we can charge taxes from big-time skippers, new-market and Montenegrin registrations, that work down there every day. One more thing I wanted to say, given that there are still a number of tax inspectors down in Kosovo, there are a number of people who work in the Administration of Revenue, financial officers, who only live downstairs and do nothing. I think they would have to do their part of the job, expect that the collection of these taxes and incomes will be maximum, it will be symbolic, but it will be proof that they belong to this country, that they belong to Serbia and in fact, we will draw attention to foreigners that they cannot press Serbs to collect from their taxes. Surely no one can pay double taxes. I say, it would be a symbolic move, it would be some symbolic sum that would be collected, but it would clearly show that the Serbs belong down to this state. It seems to me that the desire of all of us to keep as many Serbian institutions as possible, not to let the foreigners down there demonstrate what we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3750	The word is given by MP Hranislav Peric, followed by MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3751	Dear President, Vice-Presidents, fellow Members of Parliament, honourable members of the Government, the proposal for a corporate tax code has the task, as well as all other taxes, to provide funds for the Republic's budget. It is probably the same task of the government, but we Socialists do not say they do not need taxes, but it is certainly necessary to take a good look at how and where to charge taxes so that citizens are equally represented. This tax has been charged before when times were better and were working under good and normal conditions. I don't think it's time for a tax like this for the next reason. First, our economy does not work and is in a very difficult situation. Second, the economy needs to be recovered first, put it on healthy feet, and then taxed. Third, a large number of companies will not make a profit so they will not pay the profit tax. The profit tax will be paid by small and private enterprises, which usually pay all social obligations and regular sales taxes, so it turns out that one company will pay the same tax on profits, and large collectives, large giants who employ a large number of workers will never pay the tax. The question is whether we should put this burden on their backs and stop them in further development. All income tax companies should be freed up to one million and be obliged to expand capacity or modernise production or increase the number of employees. In this way, more would be gained and the state would benefit more, and that would be: 1. They would create a stable enterprise that could regularly pay taxes and taxes, which we have already created by passing previous laws; 2. The company could plan a successful next year with more production; 3. Greater production would create more money than a sales tax for the state, which would compensate in the profit tax budget, as only produced pieces in the largest amount since the previous year would give better financial effects for both the state and the company. They would open more jobs for young people and reduce the number of unemployed. She would be guaranteed safety and employees that she would have a decent profit for our opportunities. Profit tax should not be paid by enterprises for undeveloped municipalities for several reasons. Undeveloped municipalities are unable to meet all their obligations in their territory. First, they have a small number of companies. Secondly, sales taxes can't be done as planned. Thirdly, they have a small number of employees, so 3% of the employees' earnings won't help them much. All associations, clubs, education, health care, culture, and the municipalities themselves, address these aid and sponsorship companies, and thus the release of 3% in such municipalities may need to be increased to 10%. This six-law package probably has good intentions, which is to provide resources for the functioning of the state and that's good. Some procedures and taxes can be more harmful than they will benefit. The tax on the transport of workers will be harmful to all workers living in neighbouring municipalities, next to larger cities. There are about 3,000 workers from Meroshina in the company. The transport ticket is over 1,200 dinars. Whether companies will call for these workers to work when they need to pay their taxes on transportation. Does not mean that companies will be freed from the village workers and that future workers whose transport costs up to 800 dinars will be admitted, only from the city, and the rest with bigger cards where the tax requirement will be smoothly rejected at each competition. The tax on holding and carrying weapons can also harm hunting associations in Serbia, which are about 300. Hunters and athletes are already paying membership fees to non-small associations. By introducing weapons taxes to hunters, we'll get them out of the association, they'll stop working around 300 hunting associations. In the introduction of the tax, we keep pushing the the thesis that there will be no higher taxes, if we know that the budget is higher by three or four times, it is normal that the taxes that are full of the budget will be increased by three or four times. Our goal should be to create rich businesses, wealthy farmers and workers who could pay normal taxes without penalty. As for all tax laws in the package, we have brought reasonable taxes and rates, if people or taxpayers can pay it regularly. If we charge taxes to citizens with tax and police, the government did not have enough hearing when it proposed such tax rates. At the very end, let's say, in the separation for a solid residential building, small municipalities won't be able to use it. First, the funds in these small municipalities are small so that they can meet their basic requirements. Secondly, there are 700 employees in Merošina and we will not be able to start building a single apartment and I believe that we should fully look at the whole area when we are making these procedures, because what is brought to Belgrade should not apply to Meroshina, because they are not the same conditions, is not the same number of people who can fill these budgets with various taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3752	The word is by MP Milos Nesovic, followed by MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3753	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Republic MPs, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, today I will speak only of one law. I think I'm also committed, because for that I'm the most competent, even though I've read all the laws, the whole package of laws. So that I could talk about the Law of Use, Holding and Wearing Goods, I would like to say a few words about companies providing these services, to be better understood. Telekom Srbija's telecommunications company AD is a very powerful company and, regardless of all the writings in the press we have had so far, it's responsible for you, ministers, that that's not how it is. The company had a monthly income of DM 130 million on the day of its formation. Due to the lack of prices for these four years in Telekom Srbija AD, the current income is DM 25 million. During that time of his work, although we hear very often that he has stagnated and destroyed, he is every year, seen from data, including 200,000 new fixed phones in the network, building transport networks, access networks and building mobile telephony, with 120 base stations on Serbia's territory. This year he had a business plan, according to the program, the obligation to build 114 base stations. He didn't make it. I have to tell you, don't get me wrong, I'm criticizing someone, but Telekom Srbija doesn't work, not because people aren't good there and the current director isn't good, but because management hasn't been formed yet, nor has the director got all the necessary powers, and so has the board of directors until a few days ago. I'm afraid, with shareholders, there is a big problem, that Italians and Greeks do not inform the international public that the Serbian side does not respect the action agreement and that this prevents us from entering new capital into Serbia. And now I want to say, specifically, that I think that cell phone taxes, which are proposed at the purchase of a SIM card of 200 dinars and for prepaids and postpaids, for a postpaid every month of 200 dinars, and for a prepaid for each charge of 10%. First, for a reason, I'm going to say that the network isn't covered, that we have a lot of bottlenecks in the network and that the quality of traffic in mobile phones isn't good. It's one general feature and I don't think it's correct to take that tax from our clients if they don't have one quality service. The second problem, when it comes to "pripaid", Minister, this is very important, the service, first of all, we need to know that the prepaid service has no roaming, that the prepaid service has no ability to choose international traffic, that the prepaid service can do in the national network a large number of conversations and have many more minutes spent and not 200 dinars, if added to 10%, but it can be 20 grand. I've also submitted an amendment to this, and I'm telling you this from the best of intentions, that you should think about it. I'm afraid a large number of our users will cancel cell phones, which would result in a lower tax-based inflow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3754	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3755	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, the esteemed members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is my intention to elaborate the proposed laws by thinking as an average citizen, which means as one who is employed in some of the social enterprises damaged in NATO bombing, or in this company, which, due to the fact that the devastating sanctions have come to a stage to stagnate in development, that their market has been reduced and that they are barely having a job and that they are very difficult to put an end to. Instead of creating assumptions for the development of a hypothetical enterprise, instead of creating a better business, creating a favourable environment for innovation, introducing a tax on profits, a tax on financial transactions, a tax on a fund of earnings, taxing a warm meal and a regress. The word - it supports the company above, which is why I suppose there will also be because of the introduction of all these taxes and the favourable ambience, of course under the sign of quotes, the company will be more competitive, competitive and successful. What will be the consequence of all this? The result will be that this company will have less work to do, and that means that as a worker I can expect to be employed for a month, if I am not already declared a technological surplus for a maximum of five to seven days, and that still means that I will receive the same amount of work compensation, and - so economists would say - a equivalent compensation for a regress and a warm meal, because those categories of receiving privileges are only those who work in continuity. And if this were all, maybe it would represent a minimum minimum of existential conditions. But, of course, that's not all. The promoter goes on. He thinks I don't have the right to a hobby, that I can't have the opportunity to at least temporarily forget an ugly everyday life, and he's already zealously suggesting that I be taxed by a carabin, a hunting rifle, because if there's a way for me to, in a human way, by introducing these taxes, I'll be executed, because using a weapon for that purpose would be one such barbaric and Balkan act. In addition to this pointless tax procedure, based solely on the fact that there are one million pieces of registered weapons, it may serve the idea to tax other hobbyists - fishermen, philatelists, fans of Serbian clubs, numismaticists, bird lovers and pets, cyclists, scouts and who knows who else - only to mathematically raise the planned amount in the budget. A normal man in this situation wonders -- God, is this all. And the answer is, of course not, because it's just work. Since a citizen built a house for himself and on average for two children, so he has to touch the budget and, by the way, be happy that he didn't have three children, because if he did, there would be no white plague in Serbia, but that would make him touch the budget more. So, the promoter goes on, because since he previously allows imports of all kinds of cars, and it is known that every used diesel car under 1,800 cm is not worth buying, and since it previously destroys the entire Zastava domestic production, then taxes drastic cars in the class of over 1,800 and 2,000 cubic metres, and asks owners each year to raise taxes on cars that are as used who knows when and how to buy them, as if they had bought them these cars and paid them personally or maybe gave them a licking. As an ordinary citizen, I can't even get an apartment from the Solidarity Fund anymore because this fund has been abolished with an unsuspecting explanation. I have to experience my cell phone as a luxury, and that's why I have to pay taxes, because it's not a civilizational fluid, like a toothpaste, like a personal hygiene kit, like a pen inlet, like a computer, and who knows what, I can't go any further, because maybe the promoter will get an inspiration for new taxation. As an ordinary citizen, who has no other income than those from a company where he is busy, I am delighted with the inventiveness and imagination of the promoter. I really expected that the promoter would offer me something first, and then, in the post of giving, gradually taxed. The promoter, however, had a completely mathematical approach. An approach known in the people as "the paper suffers everything". And what now is the position of an ordinary citizen, one whom the proposer unfoundedly thinks is somewhere and some money he's about to shake out or take out of his stockings. What if he doesn't? Yes, like Kočić and David Strbac in "The Badger in front of the Court" he says, "O good empires (read – a smart proposer)" and make a fine bargain of great pleasure and exultation. That's what an ordinary citizen thinks, and I, as his representative, must say that Davidov is no longer called the Badger, but rather the promoter and author of these laws that will take the people under their fingernails and us, his representatives, face and dignity if they are accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3756	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. In the meantime, just to give you two notices - the Legislative Committee will be held in the session session of the National Assembly, on the ground floor, and also at the break of today's session, in the small hall of the National Assembly, a edition of the Holy Scriptures, the Old Testament and the New Testament on the compact disk, whose publisher is the Holy Archaeological Synod of the Serbian Orthodox Church. The compact disk will be presented by authors, Mr Milutin Lilić and Mr Slobodan Jovanovic, and the greeting word will be sent to the MPs of the prototorijSavo Jovic. Please attend this presentation and committee sessions in this session, probably around 13:30, because we're working shorter, so we're gonna take a break around 13:30. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3757	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers in the government, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, respected journalists yesterday, Mr. Svetovic, president of the So of Gornji Milanovac and the MP, told the speaker that control of the Office for Accounting and Payments from Cačka, in Milanovac, was found to be a major violation there, that the funds from the 1.3 fund were spent unintentional. With this in mind, I received through the Office of the Assembly, from Mr. Dravimir Marusic, the letter of the following contents: "At today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, MP and president of SO Gornji Milanovac, Milutin Svetovic, presented the information that the PDO, a subsidiary of Cačak, is controlling the business books of the Public Communal Enterprise "17 September" from Gornji Milanovac, a part relating to the funds....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3758	I'd like to ask you to take care of the agenda after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3759	Absolutely on the agenda, if you'll listen to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3760	Well, it's a replica, so don't text through the assembly pay phone, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3761	Mr. President, please, your party's activist has made this speaker in yesterday's debate an incorrect claim, and I now disprove that claim. "The record with the mentioned number, after the controls, brought the ZOP Cačak on 6 April 2001, with the order that all objections be delivered 20 days from the day of receipt of the minutes to the office and that the final text of the minutes is subsequently established. Today, on April 11th, the authorized inspector of the office, who made the record, noticed his own mistake... (President: I remind you to stick to the subject. ....................................................................................................... and, under his official duty, carried out the correction of his own minutes" etc. Here, Mr. Salesman, I'll give you this. I'm not talking about Mr. Soldovic's rusty intention, I'm saying that he said a thing that was officially corrected and denied in the meantime, and I think it's fair to say it here, nor should someone be angry about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3762	Will you move to the agenda, Mr. Baralic?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3763	I would ask that Sirano De Bergerac not throw the Serbian government to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3764	It's not yours to take care of, it's yours to make sure you don't jump out of the agenda theme, which you just did for three minutes. Please proceed or step down from the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3765	Mr. President, that doesn't look like you, but good. Here, let's see, no problem. As far as the law is concerned, and there are more, I want to say a few things about those assets that the citizens will pay on the basis of the taxation of second-hand cars. First, under incredible circumstances, this government has given citizens the opportunity to get legal papers for cars, which are obviously of suspicious origin, in a way that is not foreseen by law. As Mr. Dragan, the head of Interpol for Yugoslavia, draws attention to the following circumstances -- as soon as this country is re-membered to Interpol, all these people, who have received legitimate, or quasi-legitative papers for these vehicles, will, of course, be taken from them, and in the meantime, the Serbian government will charge them taxes for these vehicles. That's, of course, an interesting story for those who believed the government. I also want to say something about the famous 1.3 fund. With that in mind, I've submitted some amendment, so we'll talk about it when it comes to the agenda, and now I want to say the next thing -- I'm calling on all SO presidents, and there are more than 30 of them in this room to support what I've proposed to that amendment, because that way they'll allow you to start investment in the area of solidarity housing to end. If this is not done, and what little of the municipalities have left of the 3.5 rate will have to be spent on ending these jobs. But they will have to explain it to their voters when they return to the municipalities where they came from. As for the law taxing the holding and bearing of goods (Employer Seselj, from the post: I would like to conduct a dialogue with the Government. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3766	But in the right place, which is not this, I ask you to stop talking, and Mr. Minsiter, if it suits you, Mr. Seselj, and to introduce a little order in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3767	A large number of people in this country own guns, primarily hunting rifles, which they have won from their fathers and grandfathers. You gentlemen are taxing your memories. There's no man who won't be able to, no matter how much your coercion is, to pay for it and to keep a dear memory in his family. The elemental honor requires that we treat our ancestors with respect. Among those guns are those that are 200 years old. The M.O.P. Minister said the other day he was going to inspire gunmen to buy them out. What's Mr. Minister doing? Will he buy the memories of some people in Serbia? Is there money for which he, the former head of Belgrade's Inner Enemies Analyst, will have someone sell the rifle he received from his grandfather -- those in Serbia are not. And a whole series of other things, which are foreseen by these laws, which you will today, of course, adopt, as well as everything else, go towards making some senses, that others are made worthless, and that the fine, as such, is affirmed. It's fine or it's a hack, anyway. Those of you who don't know what a hack is, I should say, although Mr. Gašo Knezevic threw this epic out of the Serbian language programme, so Ivan Mažuranić, Peter Kočić, Stevan Sremec and others, and I guess we'll talk about that when some of it comes to the agenda. It should be said that only what can be charged, and what cannot be, no inquisition with night socks and some other means so-called. The coercion won't work. I agree with those who said they were Mr. Vladan Batic's men, with socks, there are both his and others, although there is no such large sock Mr. Vladan Batic can put on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3768	Dear gentlemen of the People's Chosen People's Elections, Honored Ministers, yesterday I spoke about the minutes submitted by the National Bank of Yugoslavia to the Institute of Accounting and Payments, Filijal Cačak, on the control of material and financial operations for the period from 1 January 1994 to 31 December 2000 at the Public Communal Enterprise "17 September" from Gornji Milanovac. It says here that the control was carried out by Dragomir Dasic, senior financial inspector, based on the resolution of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, for the Čačak branch, number 31 of 23. 2. In 2001 and that control was carried out over a period of 5. 3. 2001 to 30. 3. 2001. I still said the abuses, Mr. Baralic, were only then until the fund was formed. When a fund was formed, abuses have not been done ever since. And I know why the former president of the Municipality of Gornji Milanovac is making all this sick and sick, because the management of the municipality with him led the apartments to favorite journalists, favorite public prosecutors or parts of the apartment to some directors. One part of the report I will read, since I have time, where it is said that one apartment of 66 square meters has been allocated to the Public Information Company "Such a newspaper". Article 5 The decision on the criteria for the allocation of solid housing funds has established that the funds and wages are distributed on the basis of the competition, which is called for by the Commission. According to Article 3 of the same decision, which has been educated by the Assembly of the Municipality, and in particular there has been no and no such commission has been educated. He personally signed a solution to obtain the apartment of Mr. Dražimir Marusic, whom you mentioned earlier. Therefore, the conclusion of this report is said to be in the period from 1. 1. 1994 to 17. Six. In 1999, there was an abuse. At that time, 1.3% of the funds, which were allocated for solid housing, did not go to the fund, because it did not exist, Mr Baralic, but went to the expense of the Public Communal Company. It's obvious that the trucks were bought are garbage, that the streets were paved and the rest of the stuff from that fund. So I said that when a solid housing fund was formed and the board of directors were not abuses, but money was used to build apartments. About how the Fund has distributed apartments, this will be discussed later. Every time I come to this congregation, I stop by the Assembly and my associates haven't given any correction to this report.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3769	Replica. The People's Messenger of the Shutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3770	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say that Mr. Baralic is very fond of me internally. Unlike his colleagues, who are most often just funny, he is sometimes psychic because of information that I am the head of the SRJ Interpol. First of all, we're not members of the international Interpol. I am neither, nor will I ever be the boss of Interpol.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3771	There is the word of the People's Messenger Stevan Guduric, and after him the Messenger of the People, Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3772	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. President and gentlemen of the Government, considering both the previous and this package of tax laws I see, and I'd like to be wrong, that personally, as I've been paying my obligations neatly so far, including taxes, and also in the company where I work, which has never been released, but has paid everything neatly, that we will pay more, and it makes sense when the greater tax of the lepers is to pay less, at least we who have paid everything neatly so far. It's not like all of this to me because I see that those who, unlike others, were getting apartments and then buying them out for a fish Tepsi, would do better than those who built houses, and it would cost them more. It is time for the government to consider the burden of solid housing being borne by those who bought these apartments for the Tepsia of fish and thus returned to this society. It wasn't a bad idea, but eventually it turned out that the bread loaf was equal to an 80 square-square apartment in a new settlement in Novi Sad. Speaking of abuses of funds for solid housing, the largest is probably where the largest cities are and where there is the most money, so question your own, because in large cities you have power. In all these proposals from the tax laws package, it is constantly said that only to be paid on purpose. In the last session, on the case of Beocin municipality from which I came, I wrote in the amendment what costs were in 2000 for certain purposes and showed clearly that what for 2001 in return for taxes on municipalities and cities was insufficient for that. That's probably why municipalities will have to wash their budgets, probably from those funds of the Profit Fund. If we still prescribe that the municipality and the share of the funds will be distributed to him, then I don't know how the municipalities will be able to cover the expenditure on schools, health care and other areas for which I should refund taxes to cover it. When it comes to the company's profits, there are few companies where the government has not taken over the crisis headquarters. If you're expecting that profit, then you've been very wrong, because in crisis headquarters, with honor and frequent individual situations, it's come out of the company. All you can get out of the residue is the residue, not the profit. And you can count it any way you want. Speaking of weapons taxation, Deputy Prime Minister General Obradovic forgot that hunters are very important. He, who was the most prospective general of JNA, forgot that the hunting team in Slovenia ended up with the JNA. If we disarm hunters, and Uncle Pera Feitic or Peter Fayd, with whom Mr. Covic negotiates downstairs, asks that the officers, who participated in the defence of NATO aggression, cannot enter the Land Zone, so Mr. Batic and Grubač take them and everyone else to The Hague, then when we have no hunters, we have nothing to defend ourselves with, or what little we can do. In all this, what will those who don't pay taxes wait for? They'll be waiting for the night, which we've already seen in direct transmission, some with black socks on their heads will be waiting for them. Now, did they wear black socks because it falls that way or because they're as beautiful as Mr. Batic, whose socks they are? Someone will probably have to say whether or not those who are going to hack into tax forms will wear masks on their heads so the honest world doesn't recognize them or know who they are. Those of forty and some of them, at least, were honest, so people knew who was pulling their mustaches. There's one more thing about all this. Yesterday, your missing boss, Mr. Ceda, told a colleague that he is still wandering around Serbia, and Serbia is not the problem. But for some like Chad, it's expensive to wander around Serbia, because Mr. Cheda left the assembly session with two cars and four bodyguards. Walking around Serbia with two cars and four bodyguards is expensive work. The rest of the honest world can wander at its expense. That's not very expensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3773	There's a word from the People's Messenger Tom Bushetic. After that, the People's MP Ljuboja Slavkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3774	The Honorable Presidency, honest MPs, the whole package of laws that we have adopted these days, a law package that is passed over the next few days, does not represent any particular newspaper or good for the citizens of Serbia. Simply, a good part of these laws is prescribed by existing laws, and one part is harmonised by the European Union's order, as the proposings have recognised. The essence of all these tax laws is that these are new charges for citizens of Serbia, for businesses in Serbia. It is also the case when it comes to sales tax, as well as when it comes to income tax on citizens and when it comes to all other laws. By taxing a warm meal, regression and field supplement de facto, these categories have been abolished and the poorest layers of the population are at risk. It is these taxes that will no longer be paid, which will be even harder in a difficult situation anyway. Tax solutions that make tax systems more efficient, clearer and fairer are essentially reduced to a larger tax charge. What is significant is that all these changes in the fiscal system will, to the greatest extent, affect the poorest layers of the population, which can be supported by a number of facts. Paralyzed by this, those who have the most, of course, except for the adoption of a new law on extra profit, will not bear the greatest burden, which would be very logical. For example, these changes are proposed to reduce the taxation of capital, interest and dividend income from 90% to 50% of gross dividends, and it is known who collects both interest and dividends. They're the rich or the richest. The proposal for a property law is even more transparent, according to the new government, has shown the direction of reform of the tax system. In addition to the exemption from additional tax on buildings and apartments, in which owners do not live or lease them, all other proposals are to increase tax evasion and reduce tax credits and reliefs, i.e. increasing tax bases. These proposals increase the rate of property tax and agricultural land fivefold, while the percentage of maximum depreciation was reduced from 70% to 60%, increasing the tax base in the old buildings. The tax credit for dwellings in which the owner lives with his family has been reduced from a maximum of 80% to 70%. All changes significantly increase the taxation of assets, resulting in fiscal revenues being made on the basis of something acquired in the earlier period, and putting owners in a difficult position because they pay a tax on non-income assets. Comparing the bill's proposal, in particular the property tax law, with the existing law, cannot avoid the conclusion that it was more comprehensive and better to implement changes and additions of existing solutions, which would constitute one side of the text, and would consist of several members who exclusively suggest an increase in fiscal burden. In the proposal for a tax on use, holding and carrying goods, we have a number of tax increases, although there is no justification. High taxes on used cars as if it points to the malice of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which in time opened doors for the import of such cars, and behind this introduced large burdens and taxes. On the other hand, the government has seriously questioned our production, production of our cars, because -- by my information -- from New Year's Eve to today, only 300 cars were installed, so it's not manufactured. It's incorrect and the amount of taxes on carrying weapons. Had it not been for the opposition's amendment, it would hardly have been for the government to change anything. So, at the last minute, something had changed, so we thought that NATO had intervened again here, because NATO's pact determines the number of soldiers, and the number of weapons, and the rest. But, well, changes have been made, even though they're not enough. Removing the Solidarity Building Fund is a bad move, because these funds were very important to the most vulnerable. The new bill on the tax on the fund is not the right solution and is discussed with several aspects. First of all, the income tax with 3.5% is imposed on both workers and farmers and on independent entrepreneurs. The reason for the adoption of laws and the introduction of transparency -- as it is now said -- of the tax system in the Republic and the alignment with the parallel tax systems of the market economy countries, is the reason for decentralisation, as the minister said, one first step towards decentralisation. However, this decentralisation, when it comes to finance and economic policy, does not have to be controversial, but it is another issue. decentralisation is, above all, heading towards decentralisation when it comes to politics and territory. These latest statements by Vesenov, Isaac and others clearly show where Vojvodina is headed. Simply, with a whole set of these laws, in my deep confidence, the new government will make the country's social situation worse, because the basic conditions of a better life are not new taxes and new imposes, but the recovery of the economy, consolidation of the economy and a new investment venture. That's not gonna happen. On the contrary, everything is worse and worse. It's a lot worse than it was a year ago. Therefore, the citizens of Serbia remain only the hope that the new government often feeds on TV, but it cannot last long, which we will all quickly see for ourselves. These tax duties are in the function of filling an unreal budget, unadjusted by our terms, of 130 billion dinars. Given that the federal budget must also be charged from Serbia, the burden per capita is several tens of thousands. Which is a lot, a lot of this kind of government. When it comes to taxes on financial transactions, I think it should be lifted or reduced to a more reasonable measure. The tax rate of 0.3% is a lot. The Socialist Party of Serbia supports the establishment of an event survey committee between March 30th and 31st. We all need to know that that night and that later events were a great shame for all of Serbia. With the participation of the call of special forces, which looked more like criminals, a NATO pact was executed, along with the BBC and Si-en-Si cameras, and a single spectacle was made that Madeleine Albright, Richard Holburk and all those who killed us enjoyed it. It is a shame and the involvement of 3,000 police officers to arrest President Milosevic, so much shame that the number of police officers is not in southern Serbia, and in southern Serbia, the Cypriots are kidnapping, killing and humiliating us endlessly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3775	Please make the Assembly, based on Article 80, item 2. Rules of Procedure, he only works if he has a quorum. The quorum makes up most of the total number of MPs, and I doubt most of the total number of MPs are sitting in the hall, so I ask you to establish the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3776	We establish a quorum, with a request that, according to the Rules of Procedure, insert your identification cards or leave the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3777	How can you tell us to leave the O.R.?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3778	Please apply the Rules of Procedure, exactly what you insist on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3779	First you find out who's in the O.R., then you throw in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3780	Please confirm the quorum. I ask the MPs to, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, insert their cards or leave the room.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3781	We won't leave the O.R. if the police show up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3782	You will leave the congregation at the will of the people. I'm sure I won't call the police about your cards. I'm guessing we have a quorum. Since we have a quorum, we can continue our work. The word is made by the People's MP Ljubvoje Slavkovic, followed by MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3783	Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have been discussing a package of these laws for two days, I would just like a few thoughts on the subject of amendments and the addition of the House Relations Act. In fact, the Solidarity Fund has existed for several years and the apartments of solidarity, but in the last few years they are not solidarity funds, but anti-solidarity funds. There are many reasons to remain a solidarity fund, regardless of whether it will be in the competence of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or local self-government, but this fund must function in a completely different way. If accurate data were taken, it would be concluded that at least from the Solidarity Fund, their housing needs were resolved by workers who needed to resolve the housing issue. Most of the apartments from the Solidarity Fund were given to those who bought their apartments very cheaply in the early 1990s, then the same apartments these months, or years, sold, and part of the funds they had kept for themselves. For these reasons, as one of the basic criteria in the future law on congregation decisions and local self-government should stand, that someone who has alienated their housing unit in any way cannot get an apartment from the Solidarity Fund. It is indisputable that the Solidarity Fund must remain for two reasons, in my opinion. The first is that investments have started in this area, and the second is that we are in such an environment that not all of us can solve housing issues in a different way, except for a certain degree of solidarity. When it comes to the law on tax on use, keeping and carrying goods, I would also make certain suggestions. I think the government needed much more drastically to tax the possession and carrying of a gun, because I think that's much less necessary for citizens, but the same thing took place so that every household owned by a hunting carbine or a rifle was free of taxes. The right to tell you that my peasants on the Cave, since instead of sheep, they planted pines 10 years ago, and now, instead of sheep pack, we have a pack of wolves and would allow them to make a heifer once or twice a year on wolves. They can't do that if they tax the carabis. Also, I believe that taxation was meant to exclude boats belonging to rural households. They don't have time for our peasants to ride a boat out of luxury. I think that was supposed to be excluded from taxation. There I didn't recognize the taxation of one thing that I think is a luxury, which is a scooter that moves on both water and snow, and I think it should be a subject of taxation, because it's a luxury to me. Finally, a purely professional suggestion, it seems to me, is very ungrably formulated - tax on use. I think it'd be better to say-- for holding, for having. This is purely legal-technically necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3784	The word has been given by MP Vladimir Garcevic, followed by MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3785	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, honoring Minister Djelic and the Minister of Urban Affairs, I would like to say a few words about these laws. I'll start with the proposal for a tax on use. I can say next. There are things in this law that shouldn't have been found there. First, I'll start by saying about boats and boats up to four metres long and boats made by people in the given time, when the economic situation in the country was better, boats that serve to cross the Sava, the Danube, Morava or Kokin's Boat on that lake or the Lim area, etc. I mean, it can't be considered a luxury. I think it was necessary to get rid of this law. What's left of the people where one family member is employed, another family member doesn't work, where the receipts are very small, to pay taxes on that boat too. It remains for him, or for the boat to be in the willow, not to be found by the tax collectors, or the boat to deliver to someone, and the question is to whom. I also think that the tax on cars over the age of 10, and not to mention cars over 15, there's no excuse. Why? I can tell you, one part that needs to be bought for a car that's 15 or 20 years old, out of the 1,600 cc's bought for two thousand marks, for that car parts are searched for by waste, and not by any means new parts, because the property power of citizens is not so much that a new part can be bought. In this way we will be in a position to pay each year thousands of taxes and in two years that car is actually bought again. I think that's the part where you need to think. I don't know what it's like in the West, but since our minister Djelic knows, surely the age of a car is not 15 and 20, but probably five, then it's sold. On the other hand, the tax on agricultural households raises the question whether all of this can be charged. Now I have to make an example of a postwar period, where taxes were to be charged, and it was difficult -- because the same ones that were destroying us now were destroying 41 to 45 -- there was a tax collector, and the household had one cow. For example, a household where a single mother is with four children. What did she do? Simply the tax collector came (which she knew), he was not a tax collector who was masked and told the tax collector, here, I have a cow, go into the barn and take her. The tax collector came in -- there was nothing left of her but to put a cut on the door, make the tax collector a little cold -- and leave her a cow. Shouldn't we be in a situation now to get into rural households, get into apartments and charge for what's charged? I don't think that part of the coercion was meant to be. I'm going to move to the transaction tax law. Mr. Djelic, I'd like you to tell us that's what's going on, that's what I'd like you to do. So it's strictly intentional. Why? I want, as an MP, that in February, if you stay in power, I control whether you spent those funds on purpose. Why? I will and ask here that the 19 billion, which are undefined, be elaborated on the items, that the Serbian government deliver to us and that we MPs follow the spending of these funds. Otherwise, there's no control, so you can't talk about abuse. Because if you move from one fund to another, given for another non-purpose or intended, that part cannot be misused. For me, abuse is only in the next thing - if someone is privately enriched, and not if it's spent for the needs of the state at a given time. On the other hand, solidarity construction is lifted. I have to say from this pay phone that every year in my town, where I live, a building from 20 to 25 apartments is built. If she's intentionally divided, you can always talk. It doesn't matter what government is, it's about people, whether the government is present or previous. People are people. Therefore, it is not possible to take that part down, but to see what kind of people do a certain job. I can tell you that without this solidarity building, there is no solution for any part of it, for the workers. We missed the rich so that an apartment like Australia, New Zealand, could be paid off for 50 years, so everyone would come to their own house. Also, I'd like to say from this pay phone, until we get out of the crisis solidarity must be present. I must say, there is nothing wrong with the solidarity log if it is the return of Serbs to Kosovo, to build their houses. My proposal is to find a solution, if there is no other solution for the return of Serbs to Kosovo, building houses, because everything is on fire. If we want Kosovo to remain with us, suggest a one-day profit, that we return monthly and dedicatedly to the people who have been displaced, to create conditions for them, not to wait for NATO to return them. As for decentralisation of the state, you can't convince me that you've done something by leaving 3.5% to the municipalities for gross personal incomes, that they'll deploy them. They've been deploying so far. In particular, since I know that the proposal to the municipality's assembly is being adopted -- 3 per cent for the municipal part of the construction and the Serbian government. What was wrong with that? Wasn't that where the council decided? Did the municipality not decide on the use of these funds further, i.e. the fund? Yes, it is. On the other hand, if there appears to be one municipality on Serbia's territory, until the amendments are adopted, there is a settled housing issue for all workers, I am ready to raise my hand to the part that stays there by 3.5%. Since that's not there, I ask you to separate those two things, to remain one, to calculate what the ratio is, since it's a total of 3.5%. As the former relationship existed, let it remain that housing does not depend on the will of the mighty in the municipalities, regardless of who is in power in the municipalities. Why? For the following reasons: when they press problems about this or that, then the municipalities will be nice in their budgets. Take a look at the pay increases that have taken place these days to new regulations that will come into force. So let's split it up, for housing, especially for utility, so let the municipality spend its resources on purpose. I'm not a taxi driver for an autonomous province. Why? I'd like to ask the finance minister - will you recognize these taxes for the salaries of the educators, when their gross salary comes so much and so much, and there's a new charge on the ground? Are we going to cut wages or are the Republic going to touch that part of the money? These are questions that we should take care of. I especially insist on the work of solid housing and on staying in this country solid until the moment we are economically individually strong so that we can provide the apartments ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3786	Mr Vojislav Seselj, as head of the parliamentary group, answered for the third time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3787	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, tax laws are the main instrument of economic policy in every system, including ours. However, one who manages the instruments of economic policy must constantly take care of the positive and negative consequences of the fact of his instruments, as a surgeon who operates the patient, in order not to endanger a healthy organ by eliminating the sick tissue or cause even more devastating consequences than the primary disease can cause them. Minister Djelic, with his package of tax laws, intends to touch the economic organisation of our society. In the pre-election campaign, DOS assured the people of a completely opposite economic policy, which will be based on $6 billion in aid from Western countries. Then, an economic policy that will mean foreign investment across Serbia, new development projects, give a chance to all existing economic operators. One word, economic boom. There's nothing of what's promised. He's only got an armistice on the Fae. The introduction of taxes and what no one had previously thought of could be taxed. It's a tax policy that doesn't stimulate taxpayers, it kills them. It's a tax policy that can't lead to economic development. We, instead of getting a restrictive budget, so the DOS openly admits that there is nothing of $6 billion in aid, there is nothing of any major foreign investment, even against the law they had Milosevic arrested for just 50 million dollars, and the question is whether it will arrive at what amount, because it is necessary to pay some similar to Holbrooke, expect bribery, and always some percentage goes to the US administration and its leaders. They're so used to it in the West. That's what they do with all the other banana republics around the world. Since there's nothing on the outside, we need to rely wisely on our own forces here. It is necessary to go to a restrictive budget, reduce public spending, leave only what is most necessary, primarily education and health care and a minimum civil apparatus. The government is splattering enormously big budgets, and it's trying to drain out the nation's last dinar, counting that there's still somewhere in the straws hidden. There isn't, Minister. For the past 10 years of blockade, sanctions, hyperinflation, straw wars, everything that's happened has been taken out. Those who didn't keep the straws were taken abroad. You can't take anything from them anymore. Maybe you can, and I'd like to congratulate you if you can. All I can see is that the leaders of the Dossow regime spend state money on travel to Cyprus, Switzerland, where they come up with it, and they're looking for some bills. They come back empty-handed. Here, now the leaders of the Dossov regime are giving in to all the demands of the former Yugoslav republics, regarding the division of Basel gold and common assets of the former, and gold of the Kingdom of Serbia, just to get anything now. So they give up much of Serbian state property to get some crumbs now because they need it now. They don't care what happens later. The previous government could also get hold of one piece of gold, by giving in to the demands of Croats, Slovenians and others, by sacrificing long-term state interests. She could have done it by now, but no one dared and no one thought of it. You're doing it. You'll be taxing on houses and fish in the aquarium, you can tax everything, you can tax cats who have cats around the house, tax taxes, and I wouldn't be surprised if you were taxing ducks. Whoever you hear has a good duck, tax him. You can only do this once, because whoever you're taxing a duck, he'd rather slaughter a duck than the next time he'll meet you to pay his taxes. That's why you missed your tax policy. You want to charge for something that can't be charged. No one's going to criticise you if you're extra taxing a rich man, no one's going to criticize you. No one will criticise you if you tax those privates who, thanks to the regime hearings, have been able to receive foreign exchanges from the National Bank in recent years. No one will criticise you, no one will criticise you if you tax those who have received luxury state fairies, but there are among your ministers such as Covic and Perisic, and we will see who else. No one's going to criticize you for that. On one condition, that ye may act, neither by the grandmother nor by the uncles, but by the same law, that it may be applied unto all things. As much as Covic pays, as much as Perisic pays, so much as the rest. I didn't get anything from the state, and when it comes to housing, which by law cannot be undermined by tax regulations, and what was outside the law and what was abuse, everything needs to come under attack. (DOS emissaries, from the O.R., by what law? You, who know nothing, better not to answer. You cannot, by constantly launching lies, untrues, slanders, through the media that are under your control, harm Serbian radicals. You can't do that, it's all a failure, it's all empty. Is that I now have a mass of tempting phone calls, various attractive women who are interested in apartments for example, or are interested in when I'm going to start those 50 million marks...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3788	Mr. Seselj, please stick to the agenda, the joint principle search...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3789	You, ma'am, should have warned these unbeknowns who fall into the word, warn them, not me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3790	Also, I'm sorry, I interrupted you for half a minute and I'll count your time. I'm also asking the MPs, please, I've interrupted you in half a minute, I'll add...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3791	But it bothers you when I answer them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3792	Mr. Seselj, I want to warn them, please, I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3793	Okay, thank you. You're very kind. So my criticism worked and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3794	I ask Mr. Seselj to stick to the topic, and I ask the technical service to unwind the stickers that are Serbian radicals, using this room for their propaganda material, glued.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3795	He can't do it without a break, you let it go. It's only on a break that can get freaked out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3796	Go ahead, you'll have one minute longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3797	Don't take a break and declare it as I speak. I'm not running away from any conversation on any subject, not even those topics that you impose by throwing at you. There's no place where I can't face all of you. But for us, there's been a closed state concession, all the media that are under your control, and you're making a much bigger mistake than those who've made before the Socialists and the Juveniles. They had some media monopolised, and you had almost all the media. Now, that's going to break over your head, the people are no longer willing to read daily newspapers because they're all the same. It all says the same thing. To go back to these tax laws. The minister obviously came here on a certain assignment, didn't come on a mission to help rebuild our economy, these tax laws can't restore the economy. He didn't come here on a mission to fix the social situation in our country because this law cannot fix the social situation, and here, suddenly, the circle of taxpayers is expanding, so the tax will have to pay and the people who barely make ends meet. It's as if he came on a mission to beat our economy, as if he'd come to the task of bringing the people into such a hopeless situation, that there's a social revolution on the verge. The real chaos wants to be created, chaos responds to Serb enemies. You know, they did not give up their intention to take both Vojvodina, the Raska area, Kosovo and Metohija, the southern municipalities of Serbia, etc. Such an economic policy they intend, in fact, to finish the job of destroying the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3798	So, I give a warning to the People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, from Articles 99 and 96, concerning the dignity of the National Assembly and the insult of the MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3799	You've broken the Rules of Procedure twice. First, you cannot give the bloc a reminder to the MPs of the SRS, the reminder can only be given by name, to a specific MP. Secondly, you cannot dictate to the MPs what they will hold before themselves, because these MPs of yours hold various newspapers, inscriptions, etc. And they spend all day passing by... Which member are you calling, Mr. Seselj? )......................................................................................................... In a newspaper reading, they spend all day advertising the record press. You cannot in this way violate the Rules of Procedure, and we know that you are preparing the abolition of the Serbian Radical Party, just thinking about the variant. It's gonna be hard for you to do that. You are now giving notice to the MPs of the SRS. You know, I wonder, are you normal, what are you doing?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3800	You didn't call a member, and therefore, I don't have to answer. I give the word to the Messenger of the people Nebojsa Jovic, and let the messenger of the people prepare for discussion, Ljubimir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3801	Dear People's Messengers, that these are so-called reform laws proposed under some other conditions of rejuvenation would then have some economic justification. In these conditions they do not have, but the best court will give them economic operators and citizens. In the proposal for a corporate tax law, I can say that the essence of the current corporate tax law with minor changes has been retained, and I would say a few words about it. In the current law in the expenditure harmonisation work, the tax balance recognised expenditures, donations to finance the defence of the country implemented through the Republic's Rehabilitation Directorate. The country's reconstruction due to NATO aggression has not yet been completed, so it is in the interest of the completion of the reconstruction to keep this in line with expenditure. An old solution has been retained in the part of the adjustment of revenue, so I would have no comment in that part. I'd like to say a few words about a member of the 44th Proposed Law relating to the Tax Liberation. The proposal for a new law abolished the exemption of the tax on the profits of the company of the basic legal entities. In the current law for the first three years from the date of entry into the register, newly established legal entities, other than newly established legal entities registered under the act on the single classification of activity in field 07, trade in the area of 11, finance, technical and special services, banking, group 11-01 and security of property and persons 11-02 were released. This release concerned a newly established legal person based on an underdeveloped area and a free zone, and I think that abolishing it prevents the development of the manufacturing sector in these areas, and therefore these areas will not have the possibility of leaving the circle of underdeveloped ones. In the proposal for a property tax law in Article 19, the proposed inheritance tax rates and the present are progressive. In the current law, the rates were progressive, and their base and rates were less than in the proposed solution, because so far the base was 75,000 dinars, and now it was proposed 200,000 dinars, and the rate was 2%, and now it's proposed 3%. This rate applies to an asset whose value does not amount to 200,000 dinars, over which 6,000 plus 5% is paid to over 200,000 dinars, compared to an existing solution paying 1,500 dinars plus 3% to the amount of over 75,000 dinars, is indeed a huge increase, and this will be confirmed by taxpayers when they get a solution from the relevant Republic Public Revenue Administration. You can't convince me there's a tax discharge in terms of the promises you made in the election campaign. On the bill of tax on the use of holding and bearing certain goods, I will only say one sentence or ask one question. Is our citizen happy who has nothing from a car or a cell phone or a boat, and he'll stop dreaming about a yacht? The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government in the current law, within the meaning of Article 48. The law belonged to two local public revenues, which were strictly dedicated, compensation for the use of municipal goods of general interest, which municipalities could seduce below 3% in the last two years, and solid housing at 1.3%. As I said and as foreseen in the law, these were strictly dedicated funds and municipalities benefited from municipal infrastructure, and the funds for solid housing for the assignment of housing loans and the construction of apartments. All of this has to stop now in one piece. The new law proposes to municipalities, i.e. the city to have new public income, a profit tax at a rate of up to 3.5%. The municipalities are able to decide independently on the purpose of income, but the mathematically expressed aggregate rate of compensation for municipal goods and solid housing is 4.3%, while the tax on the fund is 3.5%, reducing public revenues in municipalities and cities by 0.8%. In the absence of funds for the functioning of local self-government, which is also expressed in the participation of municipalities, i.e. cities in the sales of products and services designated for the financing of public expenditures in the Republic, which are made on their territory, the money collected from the income tax will be spent on financing the beneficiaries of the budget, primarily education, and thus the municipal infrastructure and housing will be put aside. The lack of these funds will not replace the amount of money from the collection of property tax and residence tax, which in total belong to local self-government, because where unemployment and poverty are represented there is no property, and all local self-governments do not own tourist facilities in order to have income on the basis of residence fees. It's a privilege of the rich. That is why I think the government could consider a proposal to maintain in the existing conditions until the end of the year public goods compensation of general interest and solidarity of housing for the completion of the investment. Finally, I have to express my dissatisfaction with the order for the adoption of the law, because the budget law for 2001 was first passed, and all the other laws that were subsequently, which would be on the agenda, are essentially an integral part of the Budget Act, so that any change in the proposed laws has a direct impact on the achievement of the budget and we come to the truth why the Government does not accept any draft amendments to the proposed laws. For this reason, the following system laws should have been adopted first, and only then was the Budget Law, but that is also the government's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3802	Joca Arsic's MP has the word, followed by the people's emissary Branko Ruzic. After Ljubomir Mucic, MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3803	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, members of the government, I would really like to thank the Madam Chairman first for the new name. I will not ask for a word after the injury of the Rules of Procedure, given that I continue to be called Ljubomir Mucic and that the only such name is still in Serbian. I don't just know what the real goal was for Mrs. Chairman. Let me get to this topic. I would really like to say that we have a second set of laws directly relating to all Serbian citizens. The government served in this set and expects the ball back. The government's fast retor through changes to the legislative regulation proposal in the light of the proposed set of amendments, reveals that the served ball has been very attached to the network consisting of torn pockets of citizens. At the beginning, I would point to some inconsistencies in the tax policy proposed by the government and proposed by the government. First, indeed for the previous session and the adoption of the Republic budget and the republican tax laws, whose instruments were introduced to fill the republican budget, we hurried to end all of this quickly, to limit time and what we didn't do to end until 31 March, and the revenues that are mostly the revenues of municipal budgets at this time, in addition to the law relating to the limitation of funds, these are instruments for alimating budget revenues in municipalities, we are not in a hurry at all, and do not again be a coincidence that due to the failure of these municipal rules will not adopt their budgets until 1 May of this year, which never happened. Some adopted it, those who had the strength and knew, and those who didn't even try will not try. Secondly, one also inconsistencies, which is about tax rates, it is interesting that the profit tax of 3.5% is introduced even for rural households, i.e. it goes to farmers as taxpayers, equally with workers and with private craftsmen, which has never been so far. I really ask you, Mr. Minister, to eliminate this mistake, because our peasants have never paid a tax or a contribution to solidarity for housing, and I don't think they've ever received apartments or won. To that end, either to specify this legal provision or to release these taxpayers from the payment of the part of the fee. What, on the other hand, equating this rate to gross earnings at the municipal level is inconsistencies with that policy of different tax rates on gross personal income, where the rate is one 14% and for the other 20. I'd like to point out one more thing. At these sessions, I expected the Minister and the Government to show us one simulation of the taxpayer, for certain categories of workers, certain categories of population, and to determine the total burden of our taxpayer, as has been the practice so far. For the sake of illustration - car owner of the local production of the southern scale or ace, as we popularly call it, at this point, without increasing local municipal taxis, toll fees going to the Republic Directorate, when registering its 10-year-old motor vehicle, it should pay both the state and the insurance company, amounting to about 4,730 dinars, which was about 1,520 dinars in this time, about 3,1 times higher. Also, when burdening and adopting the principle of gross earnings to a worker with the lowest category, which is listed in the tax and base laws, i.e. the contribution to health and pension insurance, the personal income from 1 June will be reduced by 25%, and to the director or the high-skiller, the reduction will be three percent. So, based on the burden of social food regression, which means that by introducing these taxes, the actual sex will be denied and compared to the net personal income, the net personal income so far, which means that there will be a different percentage of the reduction. So somebody's envelope will be fuller, even more than the one whose envelope will be thinner. I just want to say one more finding, in the first set of laws you passed, that you forgot that traders are not judges of your tax reform and that the burden and the court burden are given to citizens, and they are still being recalculated because of what happened to them. I think this match in two sets is going to take a little while. Otherwise, gentlemen, I must say, the budget is already inflation and I have announced it to Mr. Secretary. For evidence, I will show this new 100 dinar bill, signed since Mr. Gazyvod in 1996, which was paid to citizens - pensioners on Saturday and Monday when pensions were paid. This is another evidence of the inconsistency of the National Bank and monetary policy at the level of SRJ and Serbia. There was an undertaking to replace the old bills with new ones, and this bill (I put it in the notebook to be unsold) was paid when pensions were paid. This means that there is not enough funding in the budget and that the main reason for the decline in sales and revenues is because of the decline in the physical scope of the sales tax. Here, I need another one of my findings and a remark to say that we also smoked cigarettes at a new price, but I haven't seen the stamp since the excise. Minister, we agreed to go first and buy cigarettes and check. The biggest problem, as well as the previous one, will be the implementation of tax reforms by this government, and if you do not prove consistent with this, there is nothing. Not to mention, the minister himself said that a comprehensive tax reform had not begun. It's really honest and transparent, and the businessmen say and ask us not to burden them anymore because it's starting to fall. Therefore, some laws with effect from June 1st or 1st of July, and in the season of vacations there is no payment of the regress for a warm meal, and until then the annual holiday regress will be paid, so that this alleged income on the basis of gross personal income and the increase of the base based on gross earnings, from the annual vacation and food regresses will not be more income. Also another illogicality, that the director on the official road with the driver and even if he leads someone has a right to a guest lunch, a warm meal of up to 600 dinars a day, and the blacksmith, the builder, and every production worker can't receive 900 dinars for 22 working days, at least a liter of milk a day, but they have to pay for it too, so "half spills" and half of it remains. Also, in the end, as far as these legislation is concerned, for the Colubary End, for Serbia, is the most important part of the law relating to the revision of financial transactions. It is not clear to me that it is possible that these sources - contributions to solidarity and tax - are only changing because, according to OECD countries' classification, they represent a transaction tax. At my place in the village of Komirić, they say, "Employed by the calf of the christening." But it's not like that. The abolishing of the country's refurbishment law also wiped out the latest trail of NATO aggression and the mention of the damages that can be seen in the very budget that we adopted. Instead of paying for the damages and helping to eliminate the disaster they caused us, they baptize even what we need to pay for. The same is true with the contribution of solidarity introduced by the Security Act to eliminate earthquakes in the Kolubar district, where one of the largest and most noble attributes of Serbs is ignored in this country, which is solidarity and help in the accident.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3804	Please finish, you've already exceeded 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3805	I didn't use my right to say the word by the Rules of Procedure, and the secretary did... I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3806	You don't have to apologize, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3807	In the end, I support the retention of these sources, but not to be used to clog the budget deficit, which is already a practice these days, because from then on, a dinar has not yet arrived in the Kolubara County.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3808	The People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3809	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with all due apologies for the delay, which I was forced on account of some other urgent obligations, I would like to ask the MPs to abide by the proposed law and to use their arguments in criticism. They are very clear analyses that we have come up with, which talk about the willingness of former authorities to invest funds in repairing damage in the Colubary County, and, of course, in solving the damages caused by the NATO pact bombing. So, the solidarity fund will be transformed, the funds will be significantly increased, and they will meet those beneficiaries of funds from the fund that have been present so far. As far as the Colubary County is concerned, I brought a document here. It's not true that it wasn't built in the Colubary County, it was built, but it was built, for example. building a home of radicals, not building houses of citizens, which were torn down by earthquakes, and every resident of the Kolubar district knows very well how much you, as representatives of the government, were willing to meet them in solving the problem, which was priority for them. So, gentlemen, you can say -- it wasn't invested in the Colubary County in repairing the damage caused by the earthquake, except in the case of a radical home in Valjevo, when you invested four million and 723 thousand dinars. That's the facts. [[Employer Seselj is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3810	There's no replica. Well, you're not a home of radicals, you're not mentioned, you're not a function, nothing offensive. You're entitled to the Rules of Procedure, but there's no conditions under the Rules of Procedure. There's no replica. There's a word from MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3811	Dear Presidency, I finally get my word. I'd like to ask you, if possible, a little attention only, and if not, I'll be forced to speak, even though no one listens to me. Here it is said in the announcement of this set of laws that it is about reform laws and also, when it comes to amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, that it will be the beginning of decentralisation. It was also pointed out that these laws, i.e. the subject of these laws, were passed in secret by earlier government regulations outside the public without being familiar with the general public. Please, since this is about a set of seven laws, and it is known that the laws are passed in regular procedure in the Serbian Parliament, at least the ones we are now coordinating could not have been secret and out of the reach of the public of Serbia. Since this is about harmonising the law, most of all in figures, and sometimes in changing the level of arrest, mostly higher, the claim that this previous set of laws did not cause price increases, it is perhaps true in the part where it is averaged. But, if it is taken into account that the cheaped outboard engines, that the cheaped white technique, that cost a lot of that goods on the other side, what is in the purchasing power of our citizens is the biggest item of purchase, these are mostly the needs for buying goods, which are for feeding the population, there has been a significant increase and this claim may be statistically accurate, but has caused a greater burden on the home budget. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on Local Self-Government, instead of communal tax, a new obligation is introduced, which reads: "an amount of 3.5% on the profit fund". That part existed before, it was just a different name. It was not a profit fund, it was a communal tax, and this is nothing new and nothing will bring decentralisation of the municipality, because there was this municipal tax, it was by the authority of the SO, to bring it up to 1%, with the government's consent it was possible to raise this fee to 5%. Normally, this required a reasoned request, which required a fund programme, the SO programme, which adopted that fund programme at least once a year and considered a report on the work of that fund, or a public company, call it whatever you want, it was organised and given to the freedom of SO, that these purposes, through these funds, or public enterprises, or enterprises to build cities, that these funds were used purposefully and could be monitored at any moment by the Government, and by budgetary control. So we have nothing new, except that what was possible, from one to five percent, is replaced by a constant called 3.5% on gross earnings, and that amount of 3.5% should include what is contained in the Housing Act, and that is 1.3% on gross earnings as well. So there's nothing new about this. There is new that it will cause great problems, which is that it has been deleted from the law, that is, it is proposed that these amendments and additions of the law be deleted from Article 60 to Article 65, which regulates this particular matter and purpose for this matter, expenditure and collection of funds, and what is most important, is that one of the members also contained a provision that allowed small municipalities and municipalities whose employees are employed in large municipalities and large enterprises, and are not residents of that municipality, that this municipal contribution is directed where these workers live. So, they were making money in the second municipality, stronger, and this municipal contribution was calculated in the amount as provided for in the SO Decision, meaning, in terms of one to five percent, this was directed to the giro-accounts of these municipalities, i.e. the accounts of public enterprises, from which, according to the programmes of these public enterprises and SO, these funds and dedicated expenditures. This law deletes such a possibility. So, erasing these members. Once again, those who are powerful will have more, those who use labour, and those from these underdeveloped environments and underdeveloped municipalities will remain undeveloped. I think these amendments and additions to the law were done and that injustice. The second injustice that has been done with these changes, which is about the Housing Act, is that a member of the 44th existing Housing Act is deleted, which has been repeatedly initiated and about which various critical assessments are being made here. It is about the following - these amendments and additions to the Law prevents the existence of multiple funds of solid residential construction. Article 44 regulates the height (that was 1.3%), regulates the way of spending, regulates the specific rights of wartime disableds, of 5% of the funds raised, to be mandatory to resolve their housing problems, and regulates the work of the boards of directors, solidar housing funds, which are necessarily made up, according to this legal solution, of representatives of unions and representatives of local self-government, including representatives of working organisations whose funds are being raised. What is regulated by these amendments and additions to the Law is that Article 1 provides for the erasure of this article and Article 2 of the entry into force of this Act. An amendment has been announced by the Government. I do not know how this amendment will be used, as Rule 141 of the Rules of Procedure provides that amendments in the course of the debate can only apply to the amendments, the harmonisation of other members to any amendment or amendment. We have a member here. I don't know what it's gonna change. I propose that this assembly, in particular the assembly majority, adopt amendments that have been made to the work to target 2.5% of this part of the funding on the municipal contribution, or the Fund of Profits, and that the other part be foreseen for the purposes of solidarity of residential construction and to retain a member of 44 that regulates it. I think it's a fair and just solution for many reasons. We cannot take, for example, a negative example of a single municipality or part of a part and bring down a whole system and a whole part of this matter, which is highly relevant to small enterprises, which cannot accumulate in this situation, you know what they are, to set aside for a solid residential building, because the rules governing these boards are determined by the way and the distribution of apartments built from the Solidarity Fund's funds. I think these arguments are clear enough and firm enough to pass this law, as I have proposed in this way, and there are such amendments, means to be made with such amendments. And finally, Mr. President, I would like to ask that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament be respected when it comes to material and that Article 213 is respected. Because, in the Property Act, in Article 2, point 4 (Secretary can read), this article is listed in the unofficial language of the Republic of Serbia. It is about that shering in Article 2(4) of that Law. I ask that the editorial be carried out and translated into Serbian, to use the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter, which was officially adopted by the majority group's rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3812	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Seselj, then Mr. Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3813	Mr. President, you are very restrictively and selectively applying this Rules of Procedure as you wish. Members of the ruling group can bring out what comes to their mind from this pay phone, tendingly, various innuendos, and when radical MPs want to answer, they are not given a chance. Why? You think once a lie is launched, she does her job.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3814	Are you done with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3815	No, I'm explaining what you've broken the Rules of Procedure. That's point 28. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3816	It doesn't say that in there.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3817	Let me explain why you're so impatient.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3818	You've explained, you're starting a replica. And for the replica, I didn't give you my word. I take your word for it, because you're not mentioned. (The President turned off the microphone. Mr. Seselj, I have taken your word and ask you to leave the pay phone. I didn't give you a word for the replica. We have decided to object to the Rules of Procedure. You persistently violate the Rules of Procedure and do not allow the Assembly to work regularly. I'm taking a break from an hour and a half. I am informing the MPs that the publication of the Holy Scriptures, the Old Testament and the New Testament, in the small hall of the National Assembly, will be presented in a small hall. At the same time, the Legislative Committee will meet on the ground floor and the Finance Committee in Hall 73 on the third floor. [[After a break.]] I ask you first to establish the quorum so that we can proceed with the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3820	Please insert your identification cards to determine the quorum. Since I am expressing my doubts about the lack of quorum expressed by the electronic system, I would ask the employees of the service to count the number of MPs in the O.R. I find that the count found that 115 MPs were present in the O.R. Probably some of them came in in the meantime. Do you agree to try again electronically to determine the quorum? No, I don't. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3821	Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue with a principled debate. The word is made by MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3822	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, we have received from the Serbian government a proposal for a package of tax laws aimed at providing funds to fill the Republic of Serbia's budget. In my opinion, the tax policy of the new government is the biggest blow to the citizens of this country, and I am not sure that citizens will be at all able to serve the state in this package of tax laws, and that this budget will be denied for part of the projected funds, and that citizens will be in an objective danger of getting a call from the judge because of their inability to pay these taxes. I believe that one of these laws in the Tax Package, the Tax Act on Use, Holding and Wearing certain goods by its application, if adopted, and all indications say it will be adopted, will cause great damage among other things and some of our trophy sports. This includes athletes themselves, and above all amateurs, who are mostly representatives of the young population. Namely, on the impact of this tax code on use, holding and carrying certain goods will be found shooting, shooting, auto-moto sport, motonautical sport, rowing, cocoa, canoe and sailing, and we all know that these are mostly expensive sports. Predicted taxes on cars, motor-powered boats and motor-powered aircraft, sports services and recreational activities, hunting weapons, bows, air rifles, air guns, will be difficult to operate sports clubs, and young people will be demoted to take part in training in some of the sports clubs, as it is difficult to expect that young people, despite their enthusiasms, will be involved in a club that does not have basic props or are obsolete. Such a rigidity of the regulations the government proposes will also stifle this sphere of sport. You demote a young population who, by nature, needs to spend their free time on preserving their psychophysical health, and one of the levers for such engagement is sports. In this way you will indirectly influence the development of the new Jasna Šekarić, Natasa Janjic, Aleksandra Ivošev or Ivan Kolić. The very package of tax laws and its negative effects can be seen on the simple case of a classic club, a water restaurant, Belgrade, the mouth or the hotel Yugoslavia, which is the favorite place for many Belgradeers to go, and especially young people. The owner of an average water catering facility in Belgrade must pay the following taxes in line with his work and obligations as a citizen of Serbia: These are taxes on the sales of goods and in the servant, income tax on citizens, excise taxes, tax on use, holding and carrying certain goods, and possibly some more. All these taxes are cumulatively between 300 and 350,000 dinars per year. I wonder if this privateer will solve the problem of these fines by raising the prices of his services, thus narrowing the clientel to a self-paying capacity, a narrow circle of people, or in a magical way trying to avoid paying taxes and thus coming into conflict with the state. This is just one plastic example, but unfortunately all citizens will share the same fate, no matter what work they do. I am representing, of course, the the thesis that our minister has put forward that our tax policy should be in line with the European Union directives, but I believe that this tax policy should be in line with the real payment opportunities of our citizens. You've designed a budget that we've adopted with more than 22 billion deficits to replace with alleged donations and privatisation funds. Serbian citizens, however, expected more donations to come without being charged with funds by taxing citizens in such proportions. It would be nice for the citizens to endure all of this, but it will be very difficult to avoid in that case the gray economy, avoiding tax obligations and social tensions of course. Please keep that in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3823	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3824	Dear President, fellow MPs, I would not like to hold your attention too much, which you are in such a hurry, since it is obvious, because we had a very unpleasant situation when it was really clear to everyone that unless the MPs of the opposition appear you could very hard get a quorum. That's unfortunate, given that DOS has 176 MPs. Since I want to talk about what's on the agenda in the introduction, I have to say that I am quite clear with our laws, a set of tax laws, having to be in a tendency to comply with European laws, to follow European flows, because these are the intensities and intentions of our country, to become a member of that community once. However, if we ignore the situation we have had in the last 10 years, that we have lived in an environment that has been burdened with wars, sanctions, NATO aggression on our country, we can say that these laws, i.e. The proposed set of laws right about that. However, we must bear in mind that our economy is indeed crushed. I don't want to compare our economy to the patient, but I certainly can, because our economy has endured a lot of things for the last 10 years, especially during the bombing. If we apply these laws in the ways provided for in this form, I fear that they will represent a truly unsustainable and heavy burden on our economy, that our economy will be brought into a situation that it will not be able to withstand such a burden. That's exactly what we all need to avoid. In the consultations, which I have conducted with some of the representatives of business entities from the district from which I encourage, I have been given explanations that the tax and contribution base increase will burden the inflow of company assets, the level of funds to be allocated for personal incomes, contributions and taxes with an additional 20-30%. That's what I've really heard from the mouth of those who are professionally involved in these things, and I have no reason not to believe them. Of course, I would very much like to see our economy and economic operators across Serbia in a more favourable position and for this new set of tax laws to be a function of developing their production, raising productivity, which in some perspective would reflect an increase in the standards of all our citizens. However, I have to express my suspicions and say that a large number of them did not know how this would affect their business. That uncertainty is sufficient cause for concern, and the time before us will show whether we were right to criticise this way of some bhager, shock therapy in the tax sphere, or was he right to propose these laws. When we talk about the Housing Act, it is really impossible not to mention that based on the provisions, which allowed the lending of solid housing, many apartments were built. I especially want to say that because there are several, a whole series of buildings built from these funds in my neighborhood, and I can't tell how many families have found their foster home that way. With this way of abolishing the solidarity of housing, I fear that all those in an invisible housing situation will be left without being able to count on this kind of assistance and that they will not be able to resolve their housing issue. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government can be observed with several aspects. But one thing is inevitable. This is where we come to the field of respect for the law. There are announcements of the local self-government bill that the government has already prepared an act to introduce a forced administration in the municipality of Bela Palanka. On what grounds, under what conditions, I really don't know, since local self-government in that environment is operating extremely well and it can also be confirmed by reports from the Ministry of Justice and local self-government from the past period. There are now announcements that these reports are changing. How it'll all end, we'll see. However, it is truly surprising that the ministry or government are not advertising the problems that exist in the neighbouring municipality of Dimitrovgrad, which is also the municipality of the Pyrot County. (President: Please return to the agenda topic. ). There, local self-government works without the necessary forum without anyone responding. Finally, he would be really happy if this set of proposed laws were to be in the function of increasing production and reviving our economy. I have to say, according to field reports, it won't be like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3825	He has the word of the MP of the people, Zechariah Trnavčević, and after him, Marko Culibrk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3826	Dear fellow Members of the People, I want to talk about one of these laws in the package, which is the property tax law. As you know, Article 7 provides for taxation of income on agricultural and forest land. As a basis, a five-year income is taken from that property and is taxed at a rate of 40%. When it's calculated, it's not a big burden. Farmers do not complain about the level of tax burdens and contribute in particular, but complain that they as well as industrial workers - this is what I would like Minister Djelic to hear - not recognise depreciation and wages, personal income and taxes. Because when a microphone or any industrial article is done there, taxes and contributions paid by the consumer are included in the cost of cost. However, this is not recognised to farmers, and that is the main requirement, a question that must be addressed by this National Assembly and to warn the Government that, when setting the safeguard prices, it takes into account actual calculations, cost-priced cost and thus determines parity with industrial products. I understand this provision in the law as well as one tendency to make this country's possession of property, agricultural land, expensive, and the processing cheap. This would reduce the surfaces that we have in the parlogum today, because the country would concentrate in the hands of younger people, who could process it. I spoke with Ivica Ilicic of Vajska near the municipality of Bac, who handles 2,200 catastrian mornings, you will not believe. And it's modeling. 600 is his, 1,600 takes on the lease and solves the social cases of many families there. That's what we have to strive for, with all the earthquakes and fractures that will come out of it. And they're already here. Households are old, people have no strength, no physical strength, no money, and the worst part is they have no motive to process their holdings as they are being processed in the world today. I think this law deserves the support of all MPs of this National Assembly. I'd like to say a few words about one fact. I've been reading stenographic notes these days, and I know, I've been sitting here in the bench, what's been going on here. I can say that here a significant one, but thank God the opposition by number, a minority group of MPs comes out for this paytable with the sole desire to challenge everything and attack the mostly income side, to reduce this, what, and nowhere did he say that the pay should be reduced, health workers, to return two years of waiting for a mother's allowance, two years of waiting for a farm pension, from where to settle those obligations. It's pure demagogy, it's cheap buying affection and so on. I've got a letter here that came in today, and I'll hand it over later, when I leave the pay phone, to the president of this group, who's just performing with a tendency for the neighbor to die a cow. Convinced that you had been unhappy here earlier that a sufficient number of MPs had gathered to continue their work. Don't say that. We are all representatives of the citizens, who have chosen us, sent us with some hope that as smart and discreet people, we will agree to be better, not to go out here without any arguments. (President: Please stick to the agenda. This is completely in the spirit of the agenda, one request, a warning to be a little more constructive in these discussions. After all that was happening, I thought of the following -- to ask who, whether of the president or the finance minister, to recognise a special addition to the difficult working conditions to the MPs in the Serbian Parliament, because it is not pleasant, inspiring to listen to these empty discussions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3827	Mr. Ivkovic, second call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3828	I thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, when I first appeared on these agenda points, I wasn't just talking about the revenue side, but I pointed out that the essence is on the dispensary side, that is, the essence is in the excessive budget. I will repeat here that the budget of the Republic of Serbia was increased more than three times in 2001 compared to the budget of the Republic of Serbia in 2000. I repeat, do not calculate into the 2000 budget the 20 billion dinars that have been dedicated to the reconstruction and reconstruction of this country, destroyed by NATO aggression. You don't have to implement this reconstruction and reconstruction, but I'll also repeat that in that budget, which has been increased more than three times, there are no more than three times the salary of education, health care, social calling, etc. I think today's debate is rounding up a key part of the debate on a package of tax laws. That is why we are able to draw certain conclusions with the following messages to the taxpayers. There is no serious tax reform, ladies and gentlemen, and instead we have a chaotic and panic-cutting charge in order to provide money for DOS political goals. Secondly, price increases, tax settlements in all kinds, various taxes and fees, which you now only call taxes, are more present than before. Third, taxpayers will wait for a large number of tax solutions. Why did that happen? The key flaw in all these proposals is that warnings have been ignored, previous economic warnings, previous union warnings, citizens, but many warnings have been issued for this speaker, especially when the Republic of Serbia's budget has been adopted. I have one of these warnings, a warning made by the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, opinions, suggestions and proposals on tax laws, made by the Committee on the Economic System and Economic Policy, the Committee on Banking, the Committee on Entrepreneurship, the Committee on Prosecution and the Community of Entrepreneurs. In this room, Parliamentarian Radoslav Veselinovic, who is president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and I should be surprised why he did not take advantage of the situation as well as of this pay phone as a man who is directly responsible for the work of the economy, utters at least a few warnings, which I will now allow myself to say. The first warning was that concrete solutions to the proposed tax laws, a warning from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, would not lead to tax relief of the economy, nor would it significantly reduce the size of the grey economy. In all laws, the fiscal approach has been overly highlighted, and the need for fiscal policy at this level of economic development to have a development function is neglected. That's the point. It has been said several times and I repeat, only 25% of the economy of the Republic of Serbia is now functioning. We had to make such a tax policy that would relax a lot of burdens and create a chance for the economy to start. Why are you doing this? Why is the tax burden increasing? Why is the law on its own transformation being prepared that it plans, and we know that in June, the government starts with a total sale of 90% of social property and only 10% of workers? Is it possible it wasn't a one-time sale, so it's a big competition for small money? The general impression that the proposal for a solution does not respect the real situation in the economy and the fact that commitments to the state are not being carried out because they are too high, not for some other reason. It is therefore a requirement for businesses and entrepreneurs to compare the level of tax obligations to the fiscal capacity of the economy. A bolder tax discharge would lead, in the opinion of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, to faster and more effective legalisation of the grey economy. If we increase tax rates, the grey economy will be bigger and everyone going to the market today and anywhere can see the grey economy growing. Conditions are being created with redistribution of the economy, tax obligations would create conditions for greater employment in the private sector, and thus to a greater collection of public revenues. They specifically indicated that by introducing a tax rate, which has already been introduced by 17% for the transport of products and services, with rigorous narrowing of tax exemptions leads directly to a rise in cost of life. Just one example to give you, we're talking here today about the property tax law. Citizens should know that new accounts are already being prepared to increase the market value of the assets. The increase is 111.8% and so much is the basis that citizens are going to pay from today to tomorrow. However, it should be explained that in July most likely three or four times there will be a new increase. We are MPs here, and we need to think first of all about living and working conditions of citizens, their standards, the way they're done, we need to fight here to keep the tax burdens so that they create a chance for the economy to have the rest of the income, to have a chance for an extended reproduction, to have a chance for a new job, finally have a chance for a new start and a new work. The solution cannot be to be prepared in the Serbian government, that in June, a sale of social property and variants appears on the World Bank's website, 90% or 70%, and only 10 or 30% to go to the workers. Where are those companies that have already transformed 60%? They're going to be sold 40%, and do you know that two-thirds of them make decisions that matter to the collective? In fact, direct sales, one-time sales, in one month, will sell off property and place paws on Serbia's entire economy. Is this a preparation for that?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3829	Replica, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3830	Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that the clear political views of DOS are on the seriousness of society and those key state institutions that have affected everything that has happened in our country. However, I think we have a duty to try to get the process of change that started on October 5th, which some of you consider to be bad, some of us support, and certainly bring it into this home. Let's try to do it through respect and respect for the truth. At least elementary facts. We have heard so many times that the 2001 budget is three times bigger than the budget planned for the year that remained behind and created by the government that today represents the opposition parties here. That's just not true. The budget for 2001 was reduced from the budget for 2000 to less than the inflation rate. That's the first fact. The funds we intend to dispose of are not the funds that we will use in the political process with anyone, or even with representatives of a party on whose behalf Mr. Ivkovic spoke. We will try to establish a rule of law in this society in a way that our predecessors did not do. That's not the theme of this replica. What I'm trying to say is that we can't be expected to have a percentage increase in the budget expressed in a percentage increase in wages, primarily in the employment of education and health care, because education and health are not the only segments that are devastated by the policies of our predecessors. The rest are empty funds and the budget that we have presented here we will try to raise the salaries of education and health, to reduce the difference between all those that are financed from the budget and to fill in all the gaps that have remained from the decade that you and financially created. So, to restore the banking system, to fill in the funds, not to make funds and resources available as they have shown through examples in the morning part of this session, and to try to change this society step by step. Examples that you're instructions, which are supposed to be anti-cipulation, the assumption of what's going to happen in the future, of course they don't stand, unless you have some arguments and facts. The law on its own transformation will be prepared and will be presented at an information meeting that will be organised next week. So, not for six months or a year as you were in March of the month, but on the contrary during next week. It is not a law that will be as presented by Mr. Ivkovic, on the contrary, that is a law that will try to correct those illogicalities that are present at this time in our society. If you give workers ownership rights, you can't expect workers to have the capital they need to start from the situation they are currently in, it's very bad. However, due to respect for the facts and the truth, we are analysing statistics on growth in industrial production compared to March of last year. So it's not true that Serbia is failing...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3831	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3832	Serbia is moving from the state in which you left it and it is absolutely certain that such a change is needed, among other things, and an understanding of the opposition. So we can criticise ourselves, but try to do it argumentarily and through respecting the facts, and all that my predecessor has said is flagrant disrespect and arguments and facts. Nothing goes in favor of the consultings that have been made.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3833	The word is made by the People's Messenger Marko Culibrk, and after that, the People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3834	Dear People's MPs, as one item of the agenda, we also have the adoption of the final budget for last year and it says here that the budget for last year was 32 billion dinars, and 19 billion were taxes for rebuilding the country. If 32 billion are put against 129, that's even over three times, so much for the truth. So often in front of the creators of economic policy, there is a question -- which tax policy to create all of this and in what direction to take the country. So far, there have been two approaches in theory. One was restrictive, when some things in economic life are directed and restricted. The second was encouraged, when the economy and the population were asked to do more work, to be more productive, to invest more in the economy and to save more. Unfortunately, the new government is introducing a new tax treatment, which is that taxes have only been tasked with filling excessive and inappropriate budgets. From this tax package law, the solutions proposed in the 1990s were perhaps reformal, and unfortunately due to the introduction of reform sanctions, economic sanctions and the war environment, it was then decided not to accept the solutions in part. Now these same solutions propose, through the same laws, new authorities, unfortunately in an economic situation that is much more unfavourable than before October 5th. Even for reform and modern ones, fees for new taxes are declared, which were introduced during economic sanctions and during the elementary disasters introduced a few years ago. The introduction of taxis and regulations, as new taxes, is neither economic nor economic, but it is also against the fundamentals of the country's tax policy. We can say that this tax policy is non-economic, non-domestic, and it is directed against its country and against its people. What is the purpose of these laws? Instead of investing in the economy, to first create a revitalisation programme, if there were no new funding, but at least those funds from the pre-election promises that you promised during the pre-election, to revitalise the economy, to raise household standards, to reprogramme internal debts that choke the economy and economic life simply did not occur. Why isn't the new 500,000 jobs open through reviving the economy. Why is this tax policy and the privatisation law, which is indicated and where 500,000 jobs are expected to be put out, and to a reduced number of workers in the economy anyway, hitting these new burdens? Simply, the new government is in a hurry to meet the economic globalisation or new world work, in which our country is destined to play the role of the colony. According to this policy, any more serious factory in our country will either be sold, or will be shut down, so that competition, both on the domestic market and on the market of the surrounding countries. Simply, we'll become a market for foreign goods or we'll become a polygon for dirty technology. Instead of talking about discharging the economy, we're going to get a new burden on the economy. What's it gonna be? With these burdens, trades from some legal flows will move to streets, flea market and smuggling. Employers will be taxed in such a way that even if there is a disturbance in production, the lack of payment of personal income, they must also pay the state taxes, even though they have not paid the wages. Third, one of the rights of workers that has been achieved and how workers have been able to resolve their housing issue is abolished. Several times, Mr. Minister tried to explain what was behind these tax laws, but he didn't convince us enough, especially about the story of discharging the economy. I'll give an example now, if the average salary is 4,500 dinars and if the burden is 100%, in which way we'll get a 70 percent discharge, if you add a warm meal and regression to that salary in a year. It's already about 85% load. I'd like the minister to explain this principle of gross wages to us one more time. So far, we only know that there will be 14% of the tax on the state, but they have not yet come out with contributions to pension and social security, so that we can believe that there will really be this discharge, from 100% to 70%, but without including in the basics, for now untaxable, part of a warm meal and regression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3835	The word has Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3836	Mr. President, honourable Members of the People, it is difficult not to respond to such incorrect displays. It is difficult to accept from those who have led public finances for ten years and over such untrueness. To say that this budget is three and a half times what was done before is not true, and I would like to remind our citizens and honourable MPs of a few facts. First, one of the big surprises for some new finance and economy minister is to discover that the budget for 2000 was planned with 11 pensions, 11 children's allowances and 11 salaries. That's the way you had it, and that's how public finances were. At the beginning you predict to cancel, at the beginning you predict to lie, at the beginning you predict not to You tell people -- you have legitimate rights, and then you plan 11 salaries, 11 child benefits and 11 pensions. [[Applause in O.R.]] In the beginning you plan and say that there will be zero inflation, and so is the budget planned for 2000. [[The fire of the SRS MPs is heard.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3837	I ask the People's Messengers not to whine.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3838	And what's the result of all this? Of course, inflation of 113%, of course, after a missed policy of administrative prices, a depression that produces only illogicalities in the economy and shortages, and suddenly avoids it, suddenly misses it, and by wanting to create some confusion and chaos on the market, when the democratic government was trying to take over again. To remind me of several facts again - in October 2000 it was three years late for peasant pensions, in October 2000 two years late for children's allowances, 26 months late for material family security in October 2000, 32 months late for other people's care and assistance. It was this social policy. Finally, if I were to remind you of a few more facts -- for 2000, of course, if there hadn't been a change of government, again today you would have seen some imbalances in the final budget account for 2000, where everything would certainly be balanced. This would not account for all the additional delays I was talking about, about 200 million delays in pensions and social benefits, another 200 million marks of delays for other budget users and a billion marks of accumulated losses of public enterprises. Through such a policy, the price of electricity, where everything has been broken over the EPS for 10 years, it's all broken down, it's where the dubiosis has been pushed and everything has been trying to exploit these systems. Today, we have so much difficulty and, unfortunately, because of this, we have to move a significant part of what comes from abroad and move there. It's the only way to restore that big system. Not to mention that even through this budget and public finance policy, delays are being made to suppliers, so today the military came to the stand for the first time in a long number of years to today to owe it to three or four billion dinars to its suppliers, for the first time in a long number of years. Finally, I'm not talking about the fact that last year was no place to pay off our citizens' debts in the form of old foreign savings. This year we have provided 440 marks per savings and already next week, it is the right policy, already on Tuesday with the first 110 war on savings. Not to mention, for 11 years, our country has been out of each financial stream. Of course, she didn't pay any of the old debt out of that $12.2 billion, but she couldn't get a single loan. This year we're already moving, though small sums, becoming a normal country, starting to pay off that foreign debt, and we're going to be able to get new loans again. You'll see, new loans, as far as the IMF and the World Bank are concerned, will be in June. Two days ago - on 10 April we had three simultaneous good news: 150m euros by the European Union, 125m marks by the European Bank for Development for the crafts of our economy and 10m euros in microcredit for our entrepreneurs. It's true, it's responsible running our country, not a lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3839	Mr. Ivkovic - replica. This is the last time I'm giving a replica to the mention of the former government or the mention of the current government. I ask you to stop this kind of conversation here in Parliament, at least to stick to that part of the Rules of Procedure. If a parliamentary group is mentioned, if an MP by name is mentioned, we will have a replica, but to mention the former government, where there have been many participants and current authorities, where there are more participants, to stop it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3840	Mr. Chairman, I assumed you were giving me a replica because the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia seems to have lost a lot of nerve and allowed himself to insult speakers. I think you've heard, as I have, that he's had a lot of hard words coming out of his mouth, according to a respected elder, according to the rank of knowledge and calling, a lot more serious people who were behind this speaker. I'm not looking for a replica because the earlier government was mentioned. I'm looking for a replica because an offended speaker who had previously been behind this speaker. (President: He didn't mention anyone, not a group, not a MP at all). Mr. Chairman, consider me to be using my 10 minutes, and for the sake of truth and yours and my honor, read Mr. Djelic's stenogram and I believe that tomorrow we will look into each other's eyes. So it's not a replica, it's my 10 minutes. Dear Mr. Djelic, I understand that things are not the best for you (I would ask my fellow Members to show that the former government is the right one). The moment you went out for this pay phone and started to cheer up Serbian citizens, to explain to Serbian citizens -- be happy Serbian citizens, those who have speedboats will pay taxes, and you who don't have speedboats won't even notice that you pay a bigger tax for your small cars, that you pay a bigger tax for your apartments. Mr. Djelic, you have become a major demagogue, and I think that there are a lot of citizens who have listened to you quite disappointed and offended when you thought that the citizens of Serbia would be happier that they would pay a progressive tax rate on Dedinj, and that they would not notice that they at the same time pay terribly large taxes wherever they turn, from their property, through the self-service, to the fact that 300% have accumulated student standards and accommodations in student homes, and we will only see how much they will be in September. Therefore, your very appearance at the beginning of this discussion pointed to me, as a man who still has a lot of experience behind him, that things do not stand firm in you and in your foundation, in the correctness of the attitudes you present here. You tried to make Serbian citizens who they weren't. In Serbia, I live in it, Mr. Djelic, with my whole family and with my parents, and I can talk about it. There are decent people living in this Serbia, and they don't care how much they pay. They think about how they will live, what their standards will be, and whether their businesses, their stores, will be able to work and make money. I claim to this speaker that you have come up with such a budget, such a tax system, that there is no direct stimulation for economic development without the sale of social property, and that enormous value, which was not touched at all until you came to power. Mr Djelic, to inform you, it has always been the custom in the Government of the Republic of Serbia to count on the extended budget year and never in January of the current year's budget has entered the game. That's why you found 11 months of pensions, 11 months of salary, because January of the current year, when the budget is made, was also a month that doesn't count for the current financial year. That's right. Mr. Djelic, while you were sitting where you were, this people here survived the embargo, this people survived NATO aggression. That's why the Government of the Republic of Serbia couldn't pay off all the social benefits, because that 20 billion dinars she invested in rebuilding and rebuilding the country could invest in education, in culture, in science, in social giving, you wouldn't sit in that bench, you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3841	Mr. Seselj - replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3842	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the former government was bad, and we all agree on that. I guess we shouldn't be running any more disputes about it. The former government was bad, and that's how the people assessed it in the last election. The result of such a national assessment is your authority. Now we're talking about your authority. The former government was bad, and DOS's power is much worse. DOS is the worst, DOS is the worst. Why? As bad as the power went, we did not dare to introduce such taxes as was introduced by Minister Djelic. We shouldn't have, and it didn't occur to us. The easiest thing to do was to introduce taxes like this, and then what? Who's gonna pay those taxes? We could've had electricity four times as expensive. Now the current is four times more expensive, now the bread is three and a half times more expensive. Further power collection is being announced. The vice president of the federal government, Labus, announced that electricity should be ten times more expensive, to be five dollar cents per kilowatt. Don't nod your head. That's what all the media published. That's true, and I'll bring you to the next session, show you, and then you come out here and say if it's true or not. So everything you do, it's a cruel economic approach that doesn't take care of people. You brutally run your policy, you need a budget of 120 billion, and you brutally watch where all this can be kidnapped. And can he who is kidnapped endure it, be able to endure it? That's the problem. You can load 500 kilos on one horse, but only once, as soon as you load 500 kilos, you no longer have a horse. Don't treat the people like that. What you've imposed on the people is unbearable. You'll share that money like Santa Claus. I mentioned that unfortunate Covic more than once because of the unbulful 500 million dinars. There are a whole series of items in the budget that could be fucked without touching health care, education and what is needed most. There is, but you didn't try to do that. You're asking us, why don't we criticise it? So you didn't give us such a transparent budget, but you kept old practice, indicative amounts only, indicative amounts for certain areas. If you'd been more specific, we'd have found lots of places for you. I know how the budget came about: 1991, 1992, 1993, we worked both in the Federal and the Republic Assembly, item by item, criticised the budget, and every time the next government prepares, it looks for old stenograms, to see what we attacked, so it hides it in the budget. Now, that's the point. Now you've kept it. The problem is, there's no six billion dollars, and the bottom line is, it's in them. You didn't even get this 50 million bloody dollars, which is what America promised you, to arrest Milosevic, and you haven't got it yet, or you're hiding it somewhere. It's a little something. Where's six billion dollars? And you promised that six billion dollars tightly, that was your only economic policy, and there's nothing in your economic policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3843	The word has Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3844	Let me just say, first of all, I didn't want to offend anyone, but I just think that we can be offended, offended by the way this country and this public finance policy has been run for 10, 15 years. It's hard though, not wanting to offend anyone personally, because I don't want to ever do that, to accept that this budget is called inflationary, when we know that for the first quarter we had 7.3% inflation, and we've already had the disparity of the prices in the communals, which are now over. It's hard to accept it from those who ran public finances, and produced two hyper-inflations, one of which was the second largest in mankind's history, it's hard to accept from those who ran public finances one intervention from the people, and I don't want to repeat everything that was hidden, which was hidden through the EPS, which was hiding, which I didn't mention last time, over so-called. The business banks, which were actually a "controversial boiler" of a political summit, which gave a warrant for printing money, and then gave money to some selected companies, and some of them didn't even know, and that's also a deficit, and today, the result of all of that is the negative capital of our banking sector of 6 billion marks. Here, and that's another calculation, and another dubiosis, another huge deficit, which leaves us with our former government. Finally, I'd like to point out that you can't bid yourself like that in front of the public, I think, with someone preparing some kind of revaluation somewhere. I repeat, all the revaluations are over, they're in front of you like a palm, and it seems to me, not only transparently, but fairly enough, that what's in front of you today at dinar amounts, and nothing's going to change there, and these days we're just preparing a very precise calculation, so that our citizens can see what they're on. As was some sort of, perhaps, fear of this sales tax, we see today that there is no big tax shock here. Also, all our normal citizens will see that there is nothing abnormal, nothing new, nothing special, nothing new, and there will be no. What was the greatest grip perhaps in the history of the 20th century in a small nation, as in ours. It's called inflation, it's called hyperinflation. It's a tax tax on all taxes. Saddam Hussein would say it's the mother of all taxes. That's what, that's the bad guy tax, the one that catches the poorest, the ones who live off the budget, the ones who can't handle it, the ones who don't have connections, the ones who can't turn their poor dinars into foreign currency as soon as possible, before they're worth it. [[Applause]] And that's our problem, and our people have been exposed twice in a decade, and those two hyper-inflations have left so many clues that we can never play with it again. That's the first thing. The biggest bust and the biggest crowbar was what was called an old foreign currency savings. Amazing shock, psychologically, of our citizens, who suddenly learned that what they had been saving for years, what they thought would be for their old days, what they thought would be for their children, what they thought would be for schooling, one day that regime told them -- it's worth as much as the paper on which it was printed. ). It's that 6-7 billion mark tax, and that tax, right here today, we're gradually starting to get back to our people, from Tuesday to Tuesday, and that's how we're going to continue. And if I didn't talk about it, we have evidence today that it wasn't just some private matter, we saw that there were some so-called. The private banks, which were there in another, even more corrupt way, were ready to take another one from our citizens some foreign currency, which they tried somehow to preserve. That's the end of it. No more such terrible taxes, such terrible fractures, such enormous psychological traumas, we won't have. And what is said about some speedboats, boats, our citizens will realize that this is a return to normal, one perfectly normal tax system for our country as it is today, and this is the first, though not enough, but it seems an appropriate step towards a normal Balkan country. Thank you. (Apaluz. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3845	Ambassador Baralic wants a word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3846	They were applause for the song they were dying for. Mr. President, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 95 and 99, paragraphs 1 and 3 have been violated. You didn't give me your word when I advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that's article 95. Article 99 states that participants are obliged to speak with dignity, attention, and respect to one another, etc. Mr. Djelic, speaking about what the head of the SPS parliamentary group, Dr. Branislav Ivkovic, said he was lying. Mr. Minister, when you want to confront the argument from this pay phone...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3847	You haven't been given a word for the replica. You seek the respect of the Rules of Procedure, and you violate it yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3848	I have three minutes to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3849	You have no right to reply, you have the right to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3850	I apologize, Mr. Minister, for speaking to you explicitly, for speaking to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3851	You could put it in an indirect speech and then get what you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3852	Absolutely, here, now I'm in indirect speech, only when you're disfellowshipped from direct speech. So when someone wants to face an argument, he can say that the previous debater said something that isn't true, it's an argument, and when he says it's a lie, it's a qualification. So that thing doesn't stand. We expected Mr. Djelic to be a well-trained man. The agenda is not a budget, and it is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure by Mr Djelic, the tax laws are on the agenda. As for the tax, we're going to ask a parliamentary question -- who picked up the sales tax on hundreds of thousands of tons of humanitarian mules, oil and bitumen in four months in Serbia? Thank you. I want the Assembly to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3853	You objected to two injuries, first of all, I gave you my word as soon as I saw you answer, you gave up on your own, because Mr. Seselj was behind the pay phone. Do you accept the explanation? Thank you very much. So you accept that it was a fact. Thank you. A violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3854	Mr. President, the Rules of Procedure, Article 98, paragraph 1. You've allowed Mr. Secretary, who's a speaker like all of us in this assembly, to talk about what's not on the agenda. You let Mr. Secretary call all of us here for events during which he didn't spend here. The ones we spent here fighting the phenomena he's talking about. You allow ministers and MPs of the ruling majority to speak of anything they think of. And you are waiting exclusively for the representatives of the opposition to warn them immediately with your bell, to turn off the microphones, to take away your word and thus show us, along with your frequent illusions, that we won't be MPs here for much longer, to show us how much you've become ossions thanks to how you succeed after three hours of waiting to gather 126 MPs in the hall and to continue your session. You should have told Mr. Minister - Mr. Minister right away, don't say that to either the Democratic Party or the DSS or the Radicals, these others didn't even exist at the time, because all these political parties were at the time fighting these phenomena. How can Minister Djelic come here to this assembly and attack all of us for the hyperinflation we barely survived. Because of that hyperinflation for eight days here, we've destroyed the government of Nikola Sainovic and now after all our struggles to get someone to tell us how hard we've been living here. It doesn't occur to you, Mr. President, that very kind, very politely you say, Minister Djelic, let our torment go, this is where we saw and cared for you while you weren't here. Don't accuse us. You can also accuse us of creating peasant working cooperatives, and for old foreign exchange savings. You know very well who stole our foreign exchanges from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3855	Get in the polemic, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3856	Slovenians and Croats were taken away, taken away by Ante Markovic. So please, Mr. President, when it comes to the agenda, allow us all or make us talk exclusively about things that are on the agenda. Your parents say whatever they want whenever they want. When we go out, of course we defend ourselves against those accusations, you say -- it's not on the agenda. At least show a little appreciation for the opposition's MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3857	Of course, I'll answer you, and then we'll decide. I'm very glad that from all sides and all parties are attacking me that I'm biased by those other parties. It proves to me that I did find some balance after all. As for Mr. Minister's speech, which you claim is not in line with what's being discussed at today's session, I must admit that as a former student today, a graduate economist has concluded that he has actually repeated some basic things concerning both the tax system and the essence of inflation. Compared to the once-charging budget by printing money and by taking away foreign savings from their savings with today's tax system that we're discussing here today, by making those comparisons, I don't think he's got any way out of the subject we're discussing today. It would be good for every MP who takes his word that way to talk about taxes and various types of taxes. (Employer Seselj is looking at the Rules of Procedure. Only when I'm done is I haven't yet. I'm not even close. We didn't even decide. It takes Mr. Nikolic to declare whether he is satisfied, so that eventually... (Employer Nikolic - until you're exhausted. Now I'm going to take my time, Mr. Nikolic, don't worry about it. It's about the essence of things. As far as mention goes, the regime, the former regime, the former regimes that were at the time when these things were done did what was called the regime. Now, who finds himself, in that word, really, I tell you today really for the last time, and I'm giving you a line to mention the former regime. Well, there's a SPO in the former regime, and radicals, and SPS and JUL and whoever you want. We can't do that. (Glasses - all in their time. Everything in its time - that's right. Therefore, you were neither mentioned nor the Serbian Radical Party, nor you as MPs if you are satisfied with the answer, and if not... Satisfied, thank you very much. We would put it to a vote (response to a comment that has not been heard)... Stays for history. Do you stay at the request of the Rules of Procedure? Then a little replica or a Rules of Procedure? (The President speaks to Mr. Seselj. I believe you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3858	Mr. President, there are Minister Djelic and you sinners in relation to the Rules of Procedure. First, Minister Djelic talks about things that have nothing to do with what's on the agenda here. He's attacking us here for old foreign savings. He doesn't have any old foreign savings I've been convinced of, and I've been captured by 56,000 marks in Beobanca since 89. That's what you should have warned him about. If it was an old foreign exchange...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3859	I didn't know you had that kind of money...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3860	... That he stole from Ante Markovic. Where did you break the Rules of Procedure? You here mention the parties that were in power, and you don't mention yours among them. You were then a single Democratic Party and you were in the government of Milan Panic, and you had two ministers. You had Perisic and Djukic, or whatever his name was. You were a single party back then. You didn't break up until later. Before the December 1993 elections, you tore yourself apart. Be a little more objective about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3861	We weren't a single party. No, we didn't. Now the word has been made by the People's MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3862	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I will not insult you, but make them not insult me. With the courtesy of a man who's about the age of his father, I want to tell him that he has constructive proposals from the opposition, that he has smart suggestions. I only have one question, Mr. Djelic. These past few days, we've brought income tax on citizens, on company profits, on property, and everything else that's been done. This is a check. It's the whole philosophy of our man, our paror, our peasant. It's supposed to say whether this year's tax is higher and how much, or smaller. It can't be because it wouldn't be legal. If it's bigger, how big is it? That's not only my question, but all the other taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3863	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milisav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3864	Dear People's MPs, we have before us a package of tax laws that arrived in our procedure 15 days ago, prepared by a new government that took office on January 25th and has been working around 50 working days. That's what I'm saying on purpose, because sitting in benches listening to fellow MPs talk, it's like we've been in power for five years. And a total of 50 working days, this government works. Can taxes be sweet and honeyy? There's no taking money and that's cute. And what's the alternative? The state budget, or budget, which means a state account in French, must have chargers, as well as its consumers. Budgetary consumers are educators, nurses, doctors, hospitals, miners and recently pensioners, because the pension fund has been spent, state structures - What is our alternative if we do not want to separate and make one budget. That we have no hospitals, no doctors, no nurses, no schools, no teachers, no students, no mines, no miners, no protection, no police, one word that we don't have a state. Whose interest is that? Could it be an interest of state officials, MPs sitting in this House? The state is a need for Serbia and Serbia, and we cannot handle ourselves so lightly that the current young government proposes we put in an ad act and attack, not seeing another option or another alternative. How do you charge the budget? There are four or four ways. One way to charge the budget is: taxes, and that's often done in the dark, so that you don't see how expensive it is, how it's spent, or how it's done. That was most appropriate to the former regime and the former government. Just remember the electricity bill. Another way is, Minister Djelic said, to invent various banks such as Dafina and Jazda, as well as that of the official state bank to rob itself and to fill the budget in such a way, spend it, and bring the people into a desperate disaster. The third way is inflation. For five years, to apply this proposed law, we cannot raise as much money as the former government has, in many people, who sit here today and here, spent five months of inflation in 1992 and 1993. Five years to collect, we can't get as many as they've robbed each individual in five months. Let's see what they've funded. They financed hate, darkness, instability and wars. They were filling, seeing how, and emptying the same thing, all Serbian citizens know in what way, emptying it by financing the misery, misery, war and hatred of the neighbourhood, the world around us. The third way is through regulated legal projects. And that's right in front of us right now. These laws are the most orderly laws we could have before us. What you're scaring the people, it's scaring the bear with the grate. You won't scare the people that way. You've been scaring him for the past ten years by wartime callers, hate, chaos, by causing conflict with the whole world. Thank God, and that's what's positive, and I'm taking it as a positive in this term, and I've also been an MP in my previous term, sharing a kind of joy and happiness, that I've welcomed that all those who have spread hate here, enmity, made conditions for war, I've welcomed them now to talk about economics, low tax rates, taxes, high interest rates. And that's a real achievement, fellow MPs. It's a real achievement, all those baraicators of different wars, cartoonists of various maps, today they're in our field, today they're playing with us about economics, and thank God we welcomed that day, let them teach them what rentability is, what productivity is, what is economics. Let them learn to play in the economic field. [[Applause]] The Serbian people are too pleased and happy, along with DOS MPs, because we are arguing less and less with Muslims, grips, Hungarians and everyone else who lives around us, as well as with the whole world. We are finally talking about the right topics, the tax laws, and I am grateful to God for sending us such a young and good minister, who regulates this legislation in the best possible way. This wasn't even a dream a year ago. What are the largest liquids since October 5th to this day? A stable dinar, anyone can buy a brand where they've bought it so far only privileged. Second, the changed opposition, which deals with economy and third, reconciliation with neighbours and the world. Dear fellow Members, I congratulate you on the Easter holidays, I congratulate the people for the first time in 50 years with the new rule of celebration in peace and prosperity of Christ's resurrection, with the warmest and most beautiful greeting of "Christ Easter". [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3865	The word came from Stevan Guduric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3866	Under Article 98(1), I will only warn Mr. Minister not to accept the suggestion of the predecessors to pay the miners out of the budget. That's not how it's been so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3867	We have already discussed your objection to the Rules of Procedure. There is a word from MP Zoran Micovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3868	Ladies and gentlemen, the whole set of laws we are considering today and these days has only one goal, quite clear. Because of everything we have fought for so far, according to my predecessor Mile Petkovic, we are definitely coming to a very clear situation that we want to implement tax reform and help the entire Serbian people, who chose us, overcome the difficulties in which they fell. I come from Ariel, there lives a hardworking, hardworking people. The basic fact that he's smart is that he voted massively for us. From this pay phone these few days, we've heard there's disaster, fatigue, unhappiness and evil outside. [[Applause]] That's not true. There are no unemployed textiles in Ariel. So, from one industry that went down there, there are 150 small private shops that work from the garage to the big factory hall. When people look at the transmission today and listen to the black anger of the villains that it's all gone, they don't believe it. They trust us, they trust us. We MPs have confidence in the government. Of course, don't worry about it. The topic is quite clear, I am talking about reforming the budget and supporting the government. Whatever tax is given, it's like a tenant and a landlord. He who gives is many to him, and he who receives is few. Ladies and gentlemen, we have absolutely clear what is ahead of us, which is the time that will show whether we were right or wrong. We will support the government's proposal, adopt a new tax budget, and of course we will bring Serbia into one situation and its taxpayers to know exactly how much they are taken and from which items they are taken. I think it's high time, as my predecessors said, to break up with inflation and inflation, where the most benefits are those who write it, and the most damage they have is the last, on their tails, and they're away from the city, in the village, who can't make that poor dinar into a brand. The consequences of inflation are still felt in our cities and villages, but it will never be again. So today I call upon the Members of the People to adopt this law and in God's name we will live in a happier and better Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3869	The People's Messenger Branislav Blazic has the word, and the next is a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3870	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by volume and by taxing everything moving and not moving today, would have the impression that in the previous period, one part of the dubious and depth of the economic crisis, and the social crisis, is conditioned and insufficient taxation of citizens. It turns out, in part, that citizens didn't pay enough taxes and that's why last period was the way it was. However, Mr Djelic is presented as an expert financially and economically. I have no reason to doubt that, nor am I competent. But what may be his fault is an attempt at a political and historical analysis of everything that has been happening in these areas, taking the last decade, especially in the last ten years. This should, however, be left to some other experts, and history will somehow be given to the Court of Justice on that time. The generations will certainly be judged, but this period is likely, and Mr Djelic knows it well, one tragic fate of a people who has survived not only these last 10 years of suffering, but rather not to mention the communist 50 years, the exhausting communist economy, which must have left its tracks. But what is important, there were governments and rulers here, many were passing and all were persecuted after that, and they were all at the beginning of democratic and expert, but these are some of our Serbian jobs that when we pass, we do some persecutions usually between us. Presidents and kings were liquidated in our own way, only Chad Broz got away with it, not because he wasn't a Serb, he was a Croat. If he was a Serb, they'd snap him and everything would be ringing. So these are some of our jobs and this time that will come and this government that will pass, it will go just like all previous governments, because it may be some historic fate that follows us. Mr. Djelic probably knew when he was coming here the horse he was supposed to ride. He didn't expect that after all the suffering, the suffering and the wars that were in the last 10 years, he didn't expect after 10 years of sanctions, bombings, all the evil that came upon this people, to find some prosperity. He certainly wasn't, sure he was ready for what he could and what he needed to do here in some way. What we still need to look at is his relationship to criticism, which can be a double anyway. It is one criticism when you point to one problem, when you bring amendments and try to fix these amendments with one law or more laws that have been given and these amendments are actually being given by the Government to adopt them, but not as amendment MPs, but as its own. It shows this hastyness and perhaps a youthful desire to do something big as soon as possible, after decades of what we have survived as a people. So that criticism is well-intentioned and he should understand it that way. Better to understand than she boasts criticism of applause and support and stories that everything is great, not paying attention to certain elements that are most concentrated somewhere in the people. We can't talk about inflation of two, three or 0.9%. Maybe on paper, you're mathematically adding what's more expensive, what's cheap and you get to that data, but it's just that it's costing the gummarabi, the tuxedo and the whiskey, what does that have to do with what's costing the milk, the bread and the expensive drugs. Gentlemen, medications are the main problem. A 20% tax has been introduced, and 12% is the margin at the pharmacist. Today we have a situation where the hospital packaging of acetisals, which is the cheapest, is 800 dinars. These are some of the life elements that need to be discussed, however, should be seen as a good intention and human criticism. What's particularly important again is those promises. It's an honorable and moral promise to keep it, not to go into it unless it's realistic that some things can be fulfilled or done, at least for a short time or for some time that can come to us. Otherwise, otherwise, there will be an atmosphere that can have elements of fear of tax and as long as that fear of tax endures, the people will be blocked by that fear, but when hunger overcomes fear then some things will appear that no one in this country, after all we've survived, would want to happen. That's why, in order to take it easy, you hit adrenaline and want some reforms to happen so quickly, especially in the area of local self-government regulations. And I'm going to read you a letter in which you can see what can happen if some things break over your knees hastily and try to change a lot. A letter from the citizens of Choka sent not only to me, but to many parties and individuals. I'll read about what local self-government, if it decentralised quickly, will bring into some areas of our country and what can happen to our country and our people. They're writing to the citizens of Choke on March 15th, 2001. "In Choca, more specifically in So Choka, workers worked part-time until 12 hours in celebration of March 15th 1848 as the day of the Hungarian State's independence, namely the separation of Hungary from Austria. On that day, our neighbor Hungary marked her great state holiday as a day off. As citizens of this place, which is located in Yugoslavia, Serbia, Vojvodina, we remain amazed by the fact that SO Choka workers, headed by the president of Maroš Antala municipality, are celebrating the state holiday of Hungary as a member of the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians. In the office of the president of the municipality since the first day of his election there has been a flag of the Hungarian state and an order for the use of Hungarian language as an official language in the municipality of Chok. At any phone call, SO Choka is addressed to the parties in Hungarian, and only at the request of the party is the Serbian language used. In the building SO Choka, the names of all services and departments were first written in Hungarian, and with those names there is a prominent coat of arms of the town of Choka, which represents an old Hungarian family, for which the citizens of Choke did not declare a referendum."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3871	Mr. Bliss, please stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3872	This is still about changing the Law on Local Self-Government. Well-meaningly, I just want to show you that with hasty moves, you will uncontrollably cause in certain parts of our country some things that no one wants. At the suggestion and the warning exactly, Minister Batic and the Constitutional Court that it was not according to the Constitution what they were doing, their comment was terrible and this time I will not say it for this speaker, but there are two other sides here. Just because of the warning that this is not a topic, because obviously no one cares, and I'm telling you that up in the north, in the Sevnobanat district, is an extremely complicated situation right after the elections, right after being spread out in some way under a democratic story, a Hungarian nationalism and a desire for separatism and the secaratism of these municipalities, which can be very dangerous. At this point, you think it's not a topic, even though the Law on Local Self-Government is put into the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3873	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of 98th and 99th has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If it's DOS, it's a lot. The apostle who spoke 10 minutes ago, I don't know his name, it doesn't matter, you know, he congratulated us on one of the greatest festivals of Orthodox faith, Easter, on a big Thursday, the day that Mr Jesus Christ held a secret dinner with the apostles. Tomorrow's the saddest day in Orthodox law, big Friday. On Sunday, if God will, let us celebrate the day of the resurrection of Christ. It seems to be one of the MPs who doesn't have a soft connection with the heart, who's going to eat a pig's head tomorrow on a big Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3875	I don't think the Rules of Procedure is hurt at all. If you're not satisfied with the answer, we can vote. Okay, you're satisfied. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a national representative of Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have received only Minister Djelic from abroad, but we are weak in Serbia. Mr Djelic is falling into fire, I suppose he will be aware of how these tax laws will reflect on Serbian citizens, and part of the consequences will have to be borne by him. I'd like Minister Djelic, although he's not here in the O.R., as an older colleague, to direct a few more naturale. I don't think I'm younger. First of all, MPs in this house are older than ministers. The MPs were elected by the people, insulting the MPs, the minister insults the people, and we MPs can afford and by what insult to the minister's account, we here, us 250 or most of those 250, chose that government. Any minister can be elected here and this is where he can fall. Therefore, we are the law here, and the ministers are only here in our service. Today we are discussing a set of tax laws, which are based on the dosovic majority brought together in a single debate, regardless of the fact that they are fatefully bound to all citizens, all economic entities, no matter what form of property they are. Are these laws, which followed, in fact, adapting to world standards, as the government, and particularly Prime Minister Djindjic are announcing. He says a package of 200 system laws was to be adopted in the Assembly by the end of March. Why isn't that done, I'm asking for this speaker because these system laws aren't. Why are late, thunderously announced reforms, why did they just go from the budget, so-called. Tax reform, which taxes everything and everything, why not economic and economic reform. So to create conditions for work first, to strengthen taxpayers, and then to take from taxpayers, it's easy to take. We spread these laws to the taxpayer's taxpayer, but we don't reduce tax rates. We either leave them as old as they are, or we increase them. In your pre-election promises there is a different concept of radical economic reform. So, you didn't promise taxes and excises we'll cover all products and services, all revenues, with a minimum release. There's no definition of this kind of tax rate. That's what the voters of you couldn't hear. The fiscal function of these laws is obvious, taxing everything and everything. Tax functions, which are related to justice and development, are neglected, extended reproduction of taxpayers. Where, in which law we propose some relief for a taxpayer, if he employs a larger number of workers, he invests in expanded production and so on. Socially endangered, more and more of the DOS's arrival in Serbia, are fully equated with those of the richest. A series of failures and shortcomings in the proposed set of tax laws, and I have submitted 15 amendments, but the whole system is wrong. He's neither objective, nor as DOS says - transparent. These tax laws will result in anyone who can avoid taxes avoiding that payment. You're making fun of yourself if you think these laws will lead to the suppression of the gray economy. Today I went out to the store to buy cigarettes, there were two or three kinds of cigarettes in the bar, when I asked if they had anything else, why is it such a small choice, the seller says - because of these excises. What do you really want, Mrs. Gordana? I'm saying Kim. He says he can, and then under the counter. So there's always a way to avoid paying what someone thinks is over. Those who were already tired of personal survival expected to be exempt from paying taxes. These tax laws lead to a deterioration of living standards and a halt in the work of businesses, an increase in the number of unemployed and an deepening of the economic crisis. Whoever doesn't believe this, in three or four months, will be able to see the effects of these laws very transparently, as you say, and the consequences will be just like this. I warn you, all in DOS, that the defendants of such a chaotic state are the DOS MPs and all of you in DOS, and that only you are responsible for the apparent failures and the serious consequences that occur in society. You hide all incompetence by bringing up tons of fiction, libel, direct threats to former directors, political inexperience, political persecution and prison. Under the auspices of Vladan Batic, who obviously doesn't get involved much in his work, but therefore takes the job of Dusan Mihajlovic, and his obsession is -- how to destroy the Serbian Radical Party because it has become a nightmare. Under his patronate, a fake Serbian Radical Party emergency congress is announced from a handful of apostates, former members of the Serbian Radical Party. The results of the convention should be the choice of new leadership and the giving of legitimacy to that handful of apostates. However, Mr Batic, you forget that there are 300,000 members of the Serbian Radical Party in Serbia and that will not be so easy for you. We've seen your intentions, and they're, you know, unfulfilled. You're not going to deal with us that easily. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the work of the SRS MPs in this assembly is not obstruction, but only possible, reasonable, creative and creative methods of work. Whether it is an obstruction of the opposition or a dossal incompetence, Serbian citizens will best assess themselves. Since your promise that investments and capital will arrive in April, there's nothing, or you're hiding them. Maybe the capital's coming, but it's moving into someone's private pockets. The truth will come out, as always. Minister Djelic speaks of the need to tax foreign capital that enters the country, as much of that capital has been illegally released from the country. I would still like that capital to return to the ground, and to see how and under what conditions it came out of the country. Here's a concrete example -- an example of the Union Bank, which was withdrawn from the work permit, which was privatized, of course, in an illegal way. He's involved in this game and this Zabunovic of yours, which you sent to the Federal Customs Administration and which was supposed to take over the Federal Customs Administration. (President: Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please stick to the topic. I absolutely stick to the subject. He was supposed to be Director of Customs, but he was only used to get armed men into Customs, and the function belonged to someone else. He received a huge foreign exchange loan from the Union Bank for his company in Vienna, another Interpromex company on the Marshall Islands, also a huge foreign exchange loan. (President: For the second time I warn you to stick to the darkness. I'm talking about what Minister Djelic was saying. He believes that foreign capital should be taxed, I don't think it should be. If he's out illegally, at least go back to the country and invest here. I'm talking about who took all the money out of the country. So, MPS, Interpromex, a little on the Marshall Islands, a little in Vienna, a little in Cyprus, etc. Examine this case, if you are interested, although former director Vukasovic is calling for friendship with Dusan Mihajlovic and that no one can do anything about it. Otherwise, this was downloaded from one Internet site, not a single document that could not be accessed. Yesterday, after this pay phone, you made it clear that Joseph Kasi was assigned a 20-metre-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-star. I feel sorry for him, given the numerous abuses of the office of the president of the municipality, where he sold his daughter municipal building land, vineyards, orchards and some construction facility, all in Kelebians, total size of 14 ha, 49 acres and 68 square meters, which she gave to her brother after some time, and the right to enjoy his father, to Joseph Kassi. Mr. Joseph Kassa can probably buy half of Belgrade and he doesn't need a 29-square-square-carsoner. There's documentation on all of this. I think we've shown it several times in the Assembly, but here are the solutions, here are the books from the court and the number of parcels. Anything can be checked. That's what I'm saying because it's in the Bill amending the Law on Local Self-Government, which is why we don't trust that local self-government will be managed by those 3% of the fund on profits, because if one of the presidents of the municipality was able to do this to us in this way... (President: I'll have to take your word for it. Don't stick to the agenda, and you're out of time. I've warned you twice. What are you talking about? I'm talking about the Law on Local Self-Government. I'll be done in three seconds. If one of the presidents of the municipality could abuse his position in such a way as to bring himself great benefits, I can imagine how he would distribute apartments of solidarity.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3877	The word has a folk MP Bozidar Vucurovic, followed by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. As Bozidar Vucurovic is not there, Dragoljub Stamenkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3878	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the law package we got. There are seven laws, and within 10 minutes, we have to tell all about them. It's really hard at the same time, in a united debate, to talk about a whole package of laws and very important bill proposals. For this session, the government has offered laws that will try to fill the republican budget. It is really difficult to meet all the legitimate requirements of budgetary users, to be thriftful, reform-oriented and as little burden as possible on the economy and other taxpayers. At the same time, we need to know that the beneficiaries of the budget are also those who must, on the other hand, partially fill the budget. Money doesn't grow on a tree, and in order to give someone something, someone needs to be taken away. The state itself and the government do not have any other money, but rather the money they take from citizens and businesses. The state imposes obligations on services that make citizens and businesses, and it is fair that these obligations are distributed according to the economic strength of those who are to pay the tax. One who has more needs more and to help and to participate more in filling the revenue side of the budget. One government is so successful as to properly burden taxpayers and find the right measure, find real relationships and not destroy its foster parents, while at the same time satisfying all needs of budget users. Serbian Radical Party MPs have an understanding. We realize this is a hard and hard job. Until recently, we had similar problems. That is why we have been trying for days to point out to the government all the failures and shortcomings in the proposed tax laws and we are trying to influence the government to pass the best and most acceptable laws. We also speak to the MPs of the DOS, to make them think what the people who chose them think and to keep their pre-election promises. In the end, we also address citizens, wanting to warn them about what will happen in a few months or a month, if we adopt the proposed laws. We do not accept the explanation of Minister Djelic that the cost of life will be increased by only 2 to 3% if he collects electricity, sugar, oil, medicines, transport, gasoline, municipal costs, children's shoes and clothing and who knows what else. We don't believe that inflation will be up to 30% on an annual basis. Of course, Serbian radicals have a solution to budget problems. It's enough to put only two of those six billion dollars and loans into the budget and help you promised citizens right after you took over. Or, start production activities in the same way that you offered Serbian citizens in the programme. It was easy to promise, it's not easy to start production, and money obviously isn't. I will start with Djindjic's law on taxation of everything and everything, which he calls the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing certain goods. If we adopt the law, taxes will be paid on use, holding and carrying certain goods, and taxes on motor vehicles, on mobile phones, on floating facilities, boats and yachts, aircraft and aircraft. You'll say you've been introducing taxes. Right, but that's why the citizens punished us, and they chose you to suspend you. Or maybe you think they couldn't wait for us to be replaced, that you would come and then you would introduce even bigger and harder obligations. I remember what kind of anger you were just attacking those taxes -- you called it from Seselj's taxes, harras, fines, and now you find significantly higher taxes on those same goods a fair and good solution. If it was Shessel's fees, then it's Djindjic's harrass. And let me remind you, when we introduced taxes, bread cost three dinars, oil 12 dinars, sugar 7 to 8 dinars, drugs were not paid, no diaper tax was paid, no salt excise. Gentlemen of the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia, you once cried over the fate of the people, and now you will vote unanimously for these same taxes, which are now called taxes. Serbian radicals also said it was an unpopular and extorted temporary measure, the state was under sanctions, isolated, the budget had to be filled. The regime has changed, the sanctions, you say, are gone, and then lift the charges, but instead of the money, we've got separatists in Serbia's Vojvodina, terrorists in southern Serbia, Karl Del Ponte, Solana and blackmail. It's not like your friends lied to you and you won't get the money, is it? One day, he said you didn't pay taxes on fishing sticks, I guess he means stick-holding taxes and especially taxes when going fishing. I suggest you introduce a tax on shoes, but especially on shoe keeping, especially on wearing shoes. Then, fined on schnapps, roasted brandy and kept on the river, for soluble fats, for keeping the fats and for melting fats. There's a lot more you haven't used. In the proposal for a tax on property, you, as a generous regime, suggest that the inheritance and gift tax is not paid on money, rights, or items referred to in Article 14(2) of this Act, which is, among other things, the right of property to be used on a motor vehicle or on a water facility, if the individual market value is the subject of taxation, and that its individual amount is less than 6,000 dinars. Indeed, both transparently and touchingly and cautiously from DOS. You get one pig's cousin, you don't pay taxes, you get a pig and a lamb, you pay taxes, because it goes beyond the value of 6,000 dinars. The state takes one braid. Not only is taxes paid for what is less than half the consumer basket, up to 6,000 dinars. And speaking of pigs, recently the Minister of Agriculture found out that the pig does not grow in the oven. I wouldn't touch him anymore, he's not here right now, he's helping Cank write the law, or the constitution of the state of Vojvodina. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government provides that funds, collected on the basis of a decision on self-delivery for the territory of the municipality, are to be paid into the budget of the municipality, and for the area of the local community, at the expense of the local community. Once again, the local community becomes the basic cell of society. Mr. Batic can't live without Cardellus. We've lived with him for a long time. Mr. Batic trusts money to an authority that is neither human or professionally trained to deal with bargaining and financial transactions. I believe Minister Batic can do better, but he is currently busy traveling to Loznica, advises Disic and prepares a fake SRS congress. He is disturbed by radicals, and on Mr Batic, when it comes to the 25th item of the agenda, we will question Minister Batic's shift. It would be very good if both the Minister of Labour and Employment, former president of a union organisation, or maybe the workers are no longer interested in him. The only thing that makes me happy is that the property tax will pay well both the Deputy Prime Minister and former General Perisic, and Nebojsa Covic, who are awarded state fairies for the faithful service of Milosevic. And finally, we need to clarify the story of the evil Djindjic and good Kostunica. All these laws are being voted by MPs of the Democratic Party and DSS MPs, both Djindjic and Kostunica are equally responsible. So far, they're voting together. We'll see when it's time for that gay marriage law, which is being prepared by Koraæ's MPs, whether or not it's going to be so many Europeans. DOS is the worst, really the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3879	The People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3880	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's the budget for everything, the budget is really guilty, and there's a good alibi for this government, but for this expert government. Since the budget is in any case the work of this expert government, then, if the budget is guilty, the government is guilty and it would have to fall. Budget, this one, which is four times larger than last year's budget, which is unrealistic, which is inflatable, a budget that will be charged with taxes, impositions, taxes, fines, haraks, and just to fill such a budget, in a way that I have already said, for that purpose and for that purpose and for that purpose, in addition to previously passed tax laws, and here are these seven, which we are currently having a principle debate, of root economic reform, of radical changes in fiscal policy, so far there's nothing. Now it will be working on inventing new locks to fill the budget, the budget used for individual DOS personalities, and if anything remains, and for the people. As I have otherwise submitted amendments to individual members within the five laws, within these seven, on which we are having a principle debate today, I will now stick to making remarks about only two laws - the first principle remark is about the Company Tax Act. Article 23 Proposal for a company tax law and, in accordance with the Accounting Act, the total income of enterprises is also entered by means of dedicated funds, municipal fees, and self-delivery funds, which are purposely directed towards the investment building of a water supply, draining and cleaning of waste water. Since these assets are not the result of business operations and are strictly targeted for investment construction, and according to the Accounting Act, they enter into company income, it is often the case that the company has a positive business with these assets, and on that basis pays the company's income tax. In the light of the fact that the company carrying out the communal activity has not achieved a positive business result, that the financing of the municipal compensation and the funds of the local self-deliveries is strictly intended, it should, by that basis and by logic, not be the basis for paying the company’s income tax. I would therefore suggest, aware that this DOS government, which is far the worst, will not accept this proposal anyway, but I am obliged to do so, to say to the public the following proposal - that the funds of the municipal compensation of the local self-delivery are not treated as company income and such an exemption from the base for determining the corporate tax obligation. I would like to dedicate a second contribution to this principled debate to the House Law. DOS, which is certain to be the worst, will show that time coming soon, these days, if not before, is abolishing the old law of Article 44. This old law, or Article 44, which you will terminate in a few days, says companies are obliged to separate 1.3% for solid residential construction. By removing that base and transferring it to what you have now called the Fund Tax Act, and the possibility that the municipality is benefiting from 3.5% of the funds, you have done another very stupid, and for DOS it seems a very appropriate thing. In this article 44, the second position envisions a total of 5% of the totals of 1.3, means 0.0065% of the strictly dedicated units to address the housing needs of wartime wartime people and family members with whom the deceased involved in the armed actions lived after 17 August 90, who are not in a working relationship. By transferring that jurisdiction, to care for solid housing and to deal with the municipalities, you doubted this good intentions of yours. I don't want to be a cynic and say I doubt it. I trust you had good intentions. But I do wonder -- in the municipality of Subotica, where at the local government the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians and HDZ, do you believe in the good intentions of these people to separate 5% of those former 1.3 into a new budget of 3.5% as the revenues of municipalities for the building of apartments that will be for the warriors. Do you believe that? You didn't even think about it, not believe it. Besides, why do I say that? The explanation of your legal basis for abolishing a member in 44 says - this legal solution to municipalities is allowed to decide independently on the purpose of the funds being made on this basis. With this, and there is a catch, which is expected that municipalities will continue to channel some of the funds for the area of municipal consumption and solidarity of housing. You expect that from municipalities that are in anti-Serbian positions? Well, trust you on your expectations. But, well, what's there. As part of this article 44 why I say DOS is the worst, because you're not even thinking about eliminating that member -- who's going to look after the execution of what future municipalities from 3.5% of the income fund are going to earn. Because this article 44 abolishes the boards of solidarity funds, which were made up of unions, representatives of employees and representatives of municipalities. Are you really so naive to DOS that you expect the municipalities to control themselves now. Because this article is being abolished by the boards of directors. Look at the naivety you're trying to show, you DOS. What's really interesting about these seven laws is that in every possible way you're trying to hack into a budget from the population, because the story of those six billion dollars is going down. Here in this congregation, thank God, there is no Mr. Nenada Chank. And if he were here, since your coalition partner, gentlemen of the DOS, he'd be asking you now, about the six billion -- where's the money. I believe he would rightly ask you that. I, as until yesterday, believed that out of those six billion dollars -- which you promised these people, only that you would come to power and that it would be better, so the people believed in certain changes and a better life -- that there was nothing of it. Now I'm starting to believe that those six billion actually came to you. And Chanak is sick, he can't ask you if the money is. That's why it's up to us, Serbian radicals, to ask you what's up with those six billion dollars. With those six billion dollars, our budget wouldn't be like this. It'd be easier, it'd be a bigger load for the population. The proof that you're sharing those 6 billion on your own, and yet insatiable, loosely, you're trying through the budget four times the size of last year, to raise funds, is what we've been reading recently in the paper, a million and 700 thousand Swiss francs, which, past your Ginkic, did not pass through the National Bank, have gone to you. It came personally to the government and the government said she had distributed something. Do you DOS gentlemen trust this government? This is the DOS government. This is the worst government, and DOS is just because DOS is really the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3881	The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3882	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe, I will try to explain the arguments for which these taxes should not be adopted. I'd like to go from proposal to suggestion. First, I'd like to explain the company's profit tax. The laws are the regulators of the relationship of each society, and the basic base is the development of the economy, i.e. economic power. The passing of this law has no basis for the economic development of our economy. Our economy has been destroyed by the bombing of NATO, which has destroyed our economic facilities in addition to many human lives. Petrochemija Pančevo, Jugopetrol, Prahovo, Car factory in Kragujevac, Freedom in Cačka, these business facilities were our biggest, largest, based on our economy, not to mention the destruction of the Nis' trafo station, which was the largest in the Balkans. As well as most of the electrical system. The economy must first be built completely and then the DOS government should proceed with the operations from the profits of these companies. Most companies don't work. For a reason, I fear that those who are currently working will soon not be closed, which would lead to major social unrest. The finance minister said unionists participate in the adoption of such laws in developed countries. Does this mean that in Serbia the opinion of workers is not relevant, that workers should fill the budget register with their work, enthusiasm, positive energy, but their demand for a union is not important because we are an undeveloped country. Serbia's economy needs to be able to recover for a certain period of time, and then pass the law, but not by allowing the finance minister to determine relations in the area with his own hands and personal authority. All of this has to be perfectly regulated by law. Interests of 0.2% per day per unpaid tax are foreseen. Such interest in the world does not exist, and if there were, there would certainly be a revolution. Is the aim of this law devalued the value of our businesses so that it would be sold as cheaply as possible with an enormously large commission. The Serbian Radical Party's goal is to revive and develop businesses, businesses, and the proposed law is not an appropriate time to live in. As for the proposal for a tax code on use, holding and carrying goods, on Saturday, Prime Minister Djindjic took a trip to the car fair trotine, whose prices are inaccessible to 99% of the Serbian population. In addition to the proposed DOS taxes, primarily as far as cars are concerned, Serbia's citizens will ride a trotine, but not motorised by Djindjic's driving, but those we used to drive as children. As far as mobile phones are concerned, the tax has been introduced to rebuild the country, and now, regardless of the college with federal law, it is no longer tax but tax and double the amount. Just to remind you, at a time when a mobile phone tax was introduced, there were only 250,000 subscribers, and now there are millions and 600,000, and at that time the mobile was really expensive and that the average mobile cost about 1000 marks, and today you can find it for 100 marks, and it is no longer a luxury but a need for every citizen of Serbia. As far as taxes on arms and boats are concerned, there's already been a lot of words, and there's nothing to add. As far as the Housing Act is concerned, the amendment proposed is completely inhumane. The member to be changed was provided for solidarity building, i.e. building apartments of solidarity. From these funds, apartments are built that are less squares at a lower price and are assigned to lower-income workers. These changes reduced housing funds. The Serbian Radical Party advocates that each worker has a settled housing issue, it advocates taking care of all Serbian citizens. As far as the Financial transaction Tax Act is concerned, is the objective of adopting this law necessary for one normative act to regulate the form of a tax on financial transactions. The country's reconstruction fees and the contribution to solidarity, introduced by the Law, are being abolished, providing funds to eliminate earthquakes in the Kolubar region by the NBJLg on the provision of funds to implement the social transport of the Republic of Serbia. If DOS's taxes were criticised and asked for their abolition at the time the country was being restored after the bombing, they now demand that they be adopted. Now that the DOS is voting new tax laws, allegedly as in countries with developed economy, now that there are no more sanctions, and apparently big money from the West has come to our country, we should not surely adopt this law because it burdens Serbia's economy. As far as the income tax is concerned, there is, above all, the basis contained in Article 3. The bill, i.e. another 3.5% is paid for the earnings paid by taxing the income from copyright, industrial property, the income from self-employment and the amount of cadastrian income. Then why have we even abolished these city fees if a new tax of 3.5% is now being introduced, a team before it is defined where these funds will be used and for what purposes. The businessmen want to monitor the flow of money that they set out in the federal, republican budget, and even into the budget of the local communities. When do we charge the income from self-employed work? Mr Batic, as a lawyer, knows perfectly how to charge from peasants or criminals. Did he report his total income because if he did, would he have what he now has? As far as the property tax bill is concerned, it is detimulative for Serbian citizens. When I say, citizens, I mean not those extremely rich, who don't have 10% of the population in Serbia, but citizens who have spent years working hard and saving for their future and their children's future. With this DOS law, it affects that future, because the tax on inheritance has been increased, and even the grandson is not paid to inherit the immovable property from his grandfather. Citizens with their incomes will not be able to pay taxes to inherit property, they will be forced to sell at least part of that property. Do you even know what it means for a peasant to have to sell a part of his farmland, the houses of his great-grandfathers, the material goods, for which he is emotionally bound, the good that fed him, educated their children, the good ones that associate with their own roots. A gift is a benevolent contract and is received with gratitude from the donor, and the contract can be annulled later. Then why is tax paid on such a contract? By folk: a rich people, a rich country. The DOS will create a poor people at these rates of taxation, and a large budget for the DOS government. As for how to charge taxes by forced means, lists and estimates of the value of the property, I think it is better to have lower rates of tax, appropriate to the economic power of the debtor, so that they can pay off their obligations to the state than to go through unpopular measures of forced collection. Dear MPs of the DOS, cut your taxes while the people keep their mouths shut, for in addition to silence and observe you. In the end, the Law on Local Self-Government, I see Mr. Minister of Local Self-Government is listening to the infidelity. I would like to ask Mr Batic about the incompetence and impunity of the new DOS government, which is being examined in the case of the small municipality of Lebana, in my Jablanic district. As you know, since 9. 3. In 2001, the municipality doesn't work at all. Citizens can't finish a single job in the Lebanese municipality. It's probably because the Minister of Local Self-Government... (Kadomir Jovanovic: There was a stick. ) Well, it was a stick, Mr. Cedo Jovanovic, but the pole was first by 500 citizens, who entered and forced citizens who were legally elected to the elections, and then, what the Serbian Radical Party condemned, continued to cause violence, so it was 16. in March 2001 organized by the other group. In the last elections, they had only 300 votes, and you allowed them, Mr. Cedo Jovanovic, with your Minister Batic, to be over 2,000 citizens later in the same municipality, means to recover and re-emerge with violence. The DOS government has been unable to handle absolutely nothing about the Lebanese municipality for a month. We'll talk a lot about it within the point of Mr Batic's trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3883	There is a word from MP Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3884	Dear MPs, the respected presidency, say this package of laws has no incentive for economics, investment. The first law on the agenda today speaks of corporate tax. There are such incentives only not spoken by the opposition MPs. We've got an accelerated amortization, for environmentals. So he encourages pure technology, not dirty technology, as someone here says. It promotes scientific investment in the development and training of personnel, encourages investment in IT equipment, which is the basis for development. The DSS MPs will present a proposal for a law to encourage IT activity. There are also tax loans. They say there will be no reduction of the tax base in investments in the undeveloped area. It will not be the way it has been done so far, that the company will open up in an underdeveloped municipality, and then open a representative office in Belgrade or Novi Sad. Let's see how far the company has been established in underdeveloped areas in the previous government. Also in tax loans investment will reduce the base by 10%, in small and medium-sized enterprises by 30%, and in the employment of new workers by 40%. However, all that I said was mostly in the previous version of the law, but I think the government should thank the MPs of the opposition for giving it up, so this law goes clean into its new life. The property tax says that people are emotionally bound, they invested in houses, and now someone's gonna take them away. The question is where are these houses, what is their actual market value to be charged with tax. The opposition's MPs say it prompted a construction operation. I guess it's better to encourage a construction operation to build businesses and not housing facilities. It's an incentive. The other three laws are due to what's been happening to us. The tax law on the fund is in the jurisdiction of local self-government now. It will determine how much it should be given to the Solidarity Housing Building Fund or municipal activity. I hope that the government will find a way for the local self-government to get the opportunity to fill these funds in some other way and that from next year we will not have that law, as well as the Financial transaction tax and certain articles of the holding tax, the carrying of certain goods. I don't think we'll have any more need for such laws, that the economic situation will be so, and these laws will allow these laws to no longer have to be in force. I hope that next year we will pass a new law on public revenue and expenditure and that these laws will no longer be. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3885	Dragan Tomic called for the word, and let Veroljub Arsic prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3886	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, today, and probably the next day, when you want, on Tuesday, we'll finish a key part of the debate on a package of tax laws, then we'll definitely have a chance to see through the debate on amendments the whole of the proposed solutions. It's important and it's important. I see that nothing matters. We don't want to hear from each other. But, well, I'll tell you later to get your pens and write down what I'm about to say. [[elevator in the O.R.]] When it comes to profit tax, there is essentially no significant change, except for one difficult situation, which in itself is not good. First of all, it's about new companies. The relief, which was applied in earlier years and was valid for three years, was primarily for businesses, newly founded in the area of production and businesses in the area of agriculture. Someone thinks they can do it without relief and, of course, whoever makes a profit doesn't need a relief in the first year, although it's clear that in the first five years since the start of the company, all profits go to development, investment and creation, into new ideas, machines and equipment. Okay, so we don't need that. The basic concept of the government here is annulled by the basic proposal that Prime Minister Djindjic spoke of. When it comes to property tax, it's already in the making of tax solutions. The tax settlements will have a growth of 111.8% at this stage, so the one who paid 500 dinars for May 1st will already have to separate some 1,000 dinars, but in the seventh month, he will have a new debt to go under this law, and it will be much different and much more drastic and will be an increase of 3-4 times per tax solution. When it comes to the law on the use, keeping and bearing of certain goods, this law is very characteristic and these legal solutions cannot be based on any basis, neither in theory nor in practice characterized by tax, but have a clear character of tax and compensation. Whoever thinks it's different, I guess that's what they call it. The Aryans know everything. What's interesting is when it comes to relief in this area, they're very narrowed down, they almost don't exist, only that the government figured out on its own, so she gave the amendments, taking down the basics in one part, but definitely some taxpayers, and above all in this case I think cab drivers will have a lot more to do. We know that taxi drivers and taxi associations have been fighting for years with the state and that tax obligations have changed, it's been coming out for years in various ways, either with bonuses or with certain tax breaks, but there's definitely no relief this year. There's only a taxi allowance, and they're gonna have to pay for it on a vehicle they use as a basic asset. Besides, if he's using a cell phone and an increased fuel price, and I have to say that the bases in this case will be next. Since some of them are throwing out papers, mostly reading inexhaustibly all day, I suggest that you gentlemen take a piece of paper and record something. Maybe it'd be good for you to hear a little bit, this is interesting, these are the solutions you're going to write. Let's say, a solution to agriculture. Last year, the aggregate agricultural tax rate was 114.5%. This year's total tax rate is 205%. How do you get to it? It's coming the next way. You've had a 20 per cent tax debate here, they have their own political message, they have their weight, but what's not mentioned, there's no mention of the disposal fee. That disposal fee last year was 60%, and this year it was 150.5%. So, the aggregate rate when you add taxes and average self-income in each municipality, which is 30, that's 200%, the property tax and the rest comes out about 205%, so that the household that has five hectares and the average income of 800 dinars last year has received a tax solution of 1.716 dinars, and this year will have a debt of 2.440 dinars. It's just a tax, but it's got the next solution. Next solution, contributions to pension, disability and health insurance. It will be 4,662 dinars, the difference for last year is 800 dinars, health insurance by household is 2,000 dinars. Get the gentlemen together and you'll get that from these tax solutions and this tax reform. If they happen to have a car, they'll have a tax. If anyone has a gun, they'll get one on that basis, and so when you add all the gentlemen together, you'll see where you are when it comes to agriculture. I just want to know if Serbia's Public Water Company will receive this 150 per cent fee on cadastrian income. With this 150% fee, the cadastrian income has also increased. It's affected by the height of the cadastrian income. You've been talking here all along that it's gone, there's no fee, there it is, gentlemen, that's the fee. Whether it will be used to build a channel, to clean the channel network, whether it will be used for the area we talked about here and whether it will be properly deployed in Serbia, according to the procedures coming from Serbia. This 150% fee is for the first category, and I have to remind myself that there are two other categories for mountainous mountainous and other parts. Further, self-employed. Independent activities in Serbia have a co-op. The cobwebs are interesting. He'll be like this. One taxpayer is taxed in the following way, by applying the basics, which is the gross salary of a employed worker for December of the previous year. In this year it will be 6,477 dinars, for municipalities that had a lower base of 10% will be the one from that municipality. So one average dentist, we're going to take it as an example, which has a coefficient of 1.25%, and for all the cobwebs, the coefficient of 0.3 to 5 is applied, that's for trade and hospitality. This is the basis when you apply rates and it will only have taxes of 2,081,05, but the contributions will pay increased by 61.50%. The lawyer, not average, but the lawyer who makes the average income will have to pay 2.995.60 dinars this year. Last year he was supposed to pay 1,054 dinars. So when it comes to a car carrier, he's got a ton, he's got a truck, a trailer, a tonage, and he can't be less than 3,000 dinars, plus a service tax, plus a social contribution. Gentlemen, you're not interested in this. You obviously don't think this is true. I'm offering anyone from the government to come out and deny me that this isn't accurate data, that it's not true, and that this isn't gonna be a tax settlement for this year without talking about the part of the gain, that I'm not talking about all the duties. This is what taxpayers in Serbia will get as tax solutions. Some will pay taxes quarterly, some through one-time taxes, and others all year round.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3887	The word was requested and won by the minister of urbanism and construction, Mr Dragoslav Šumarac.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3888	You have to give me your word on the Rules of Procedure. Here it shows that 112 people are in the O.R., no quorum and must be determined quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3889	I give my word to Mr. Minister of Urban and Construction Dragoslav Šumarac. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: according to the Rules of Procedure. ) You reported to the Rules of Procedure later than I gave Mr. Secretary a word. I've already given my word. Here you go, Minister. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: There is no quorum, he cannot speak. (SRS emissaries, from the place: You have no quorum. You can't talk, you're not at the pay phone, you didn't get the word. The word was given to the minister. You can't tell who's talking, Mr. Seselj, please. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: He cannot speak, there is no quorum. ) Please, we have determined the interruption, you have not received word by the Rules of Procedure. You can sit down, you can't throw away. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: He cannot speak, there is no quorum. We've got quorum, we've got electronic... I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I apologize to Mr. Secretary. I'm sorry, it's such a civilization level, what to do. So, I'm asking the MPs to put their cards in to determine the quorum. I ask the Assembly to count whether we have a quorum, since it is clear that the MPs of the SRS have not inserted the cards. So we had a quorum. (SRS emissaries leave the hall, Vojislav Seselj stays. () Have a good one. We've made a decision today to work until 1800 hours and we don't have a quorum for further work, but I have a proposal to break the Businessman, I think for the first time, if he's in good faith, since I've given my word to Mr. Minister of Urban and Civil Engineering, Dragoslav Šumarac, who started and stopped for a pay phone, to correct... I'm asking the service to provide me with information on how many people are present since I've already asked them to provide me with the information. The count found that 126 MPs were present in the hall. I suggest we continue with the work of the Assembly. [[Applause]] I give you my word on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3890	I got my word on the Rules of Procedure. The technique here shows you don't have a quorum, and you can count 280 of you in the O.R. Maybe you were counting the press, the security, the secretary, the ministry's professional service, you could count everything. You don't have a quorum and your prank that every time the minister speaks, he just can't get through. You don't have a quorum, and you can sit without a quorum. Vojislav Seselj is leaving the hall. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3891	So I figure we have a quorum. So by counting 126 MPs, and by electronic 110, not all of them put in cards. I'd like Mr. Secretary to speak to us and to extend. Do you agree to extend the session's work, to be contacted by the Minister of Urban and Civil Engineering and the Minister of Justice, do you agree? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3892	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry not all the representatives of the opposition are here, and I was just about to address them. In fact, there have been several objections today and the finding that this is the worst government so far, that DOS government is the worst government, among other things, because very few funds have been allocated to the recovery of earthquakes affected by the Kolubar district area, and that is simply not true. The amount of decommissioning foreseen in the budget has been at the level of isolation since last year, with fellow critics saying that the spending of these funds has been non-intentional, i.e. in municipalities where the Socialists were in power. First of all, this was the case with Lykovac, Osecina, and among other things, the gentleman who was the director of the Earthquake Directorate affected areas, from Osijek, he put the rehabilitation, i.e. the construction of a swimming pool in Osecina as a priority. At the same time, in Mionica, there are not even 10% of the facilities collapsed and damaged by an earthquake repaired. There was one object information here in Valjevo, but there is also an object that has been repaired in Mionica, which is the object of former minister, brother of Mr. Cosic. A house was built next to a house that already exists. So much for the Earthquake Directorate's affected areas. As for the finding that this government is inhumane, it was an objection from the gentlemen who left the hall, and that he didn't think about resolving the housing issues of wartime disabled people, regardless of how they contributed to us having so many wartime military invalids, I would now mention because of the citizenship and here in the hall - whether they thought of wartime wartime disabled people when they assigned the apartment to Mr. Alexander Vukic of 118 squares, Mr. Dragan Todorovic of 163 squares, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic of 187 squares. Not only is it from their party, Mr. Niko Sainovic of 220 square meters, Mrs. Gorica Gajević of 120 square meters, Mrs. Gorica Gajević of 128 square meters, Ivan Markovic of 150 square meters, Radmila Milentijevic of 126 square square meters, Vlajko Stojiljković of 254 square square meters, and that I do not count further, because this could last indefinitely. I must admit that from that great idea of great Serbia, they were satisfied with the idea of large apartments that belonged to them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3893	I thank Mr. Secretary. I give the word to the Minister of Justice, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3894	I just want a few sentences, so we don't waste any more time. I have one objection to Mr. Djelic, a fellow minister, because he needed to introduce a package of these tax laws, as one of the types of taxes, and a tax on the stupidity of the MPs who left the O.R. It'd be our full budget. But since tomorrow is the Big Friday, one of the greatest Christian holidays, for those whose biddings we've heard for days I'd like to tell them -- forgive them God, they don't know what they're doing, and for all the MPs of DOS, who made it possible for us to welcome Easter for the first time Sunday in a free and democratic Serbia, and for all the believing citizens of this country, I congratulate the upcoming holiday of our traditional -- Christ Resurrection.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-12-0.u3895	I thank Mr. Secretary. Also, I thank the People's Messengers for their patience. I'm just reminding you that next session of the first regular session is Tuesday at 10.00 hours.
