ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u534	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it is my honor today to present to you, on behalf of the Government, a bill amending the Radio-Television Act. This law abolishes the tax on electric counters. I will explain this law to you very briefly and give you three basic reasons for this emergency procedure and when I conclude I will bring you information on these three measures that follow and which the government has taken. The first reason is very simple, the electricity tax should be abolished because we have long expected by the vast majority of our citizens, and we can do so today and keep that promise. The RTS's editorial policy, as everyone knows, for the last 13 years, and the tax which has been financed, has become such a symbol that they should be deprived or distanced by an urgent procedure. The second reason is that this tax must be abolished is that it represents unnatural and, by its consequences, an unfair way of financing RTS. It's an unnatural way of funding RTS because it binds electricity and radio-television. If the fee for monitoring the TV program is minimum, then it must be determined that people have a TV receiver, and that is not the case in this regulation and that is why it is unnatural. Its consequences are unfair because people happen to have numbers in their grocery stores, and churches have numbers, and they don't have receivers. On the other hand, you have people who have to pay that fee, and that TV signal is not enough to monitor the TV program. We have a situation where, because of the tenants or the expansion of the house, we have multiple receivers in the given houses, and only one tax is paid. So, by its consequences, that tax is not fair. That's another reason. It may seem a little paradoxical that as finance minister, I'm pushing for one tax to be abolished, but that's because I think our tax system, to be accepted by citizens, is important that all regulations be natural, and this tax is not and it's an honor for me to propose in the name of the government its abolition and that's another reason. Third, we see in this proposal the first significant step in state television reform and today's vote to abolish the fee does not mean a vote to abolish radio-television. On the contrary, the vote to abolish this fee means the launch of an important project and reforming our state television as one of the main and important institutions of our lives. All European countries, and even the United States, have state television and almost everywhere it is financed in a mixed way. One part is state, and the other is commercial. I think we need the same solution. When you look at the television market, you see that for the last ten years, after a lot of problems, in the 70s and 80s, that in all European countries, and even in Great Britain, where BBC is one of the most brilliant examples of state television, and these televisions not only resist commercial competition, but also succeed. This is because on the one hand they offer quality in the program, something that clean commercial television cannot bring to the public, and on the other hand they act like the rights of companies entering the national game and are very good at dealing with commercial competitors, offering very attractive programs for large masses and for the wide layers of our society. I think that's the way it should be with us. The third reason for voting to abolish this fee is to start to reform and build this new state television, which we will all be proud of. These are, in the shortest possible way, the reasons for the cancellation of this fee. I would also like to inform you about what these three moves are that the government has already launched and will launch in this area. The first move was already launched by Deputy Prime Minister Dr. Zarko Korac. He formed an inter-resor group in the government, which simultaneously includes prominent experts from this area, including Mr. Miodrag Isakova, as a top specialist in the domain. The group is working on reorganising RTS. It will look not only at the reorganisation and some painful points in its business, but also at its regional aspect and will look at the financing system. She'll go public in two weeks with those suggestions. It's the first and concrete thing that's gonna happen in two weeks. She will also watch some other points that should have been regulated through this fee, which is funding domestic cinematography. It didn't happen, although it was attributed, but it will look at that important point about funding domestic cinema. What's the funding mechanism supposed to be? We are starting from the fact that no matter how much we fight in tax reform against all kinds of unsustainable and unwarranted means of funding some areas, and we all know that in this area we've gone a long way, that we have tons of taxis and taxes and other things that are intended, we're starting from the fact that it's going to be important for this area to have something purposeful, so that state television has stable sources of funding, and that it can lead an independent editorial policy. Until the adoption of a new financing mechanism, which will also be established in the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget, which will be proposed to you in March, Serbia's Radio Television will be financed from the budget, as foreseen by the RTS Law today. This fee was an expression of that funding through the budget. I want to tell the RTS people today, including you, that until that adoption, that doesn't mean they won't be paid. On the contrary, the funds in the budget reserve are provided for them. So that's the first thing, in two weeks' time, the principle proposals and the funding mechanism, the natural mechanism and the fair one for Serbia's Radio-Television. The second measure, also important, Mr President has already ordered this, in the conclusions of the Committee on Information and Culture of your home, it was decided to ask the Government for a report on the business of RTS last year and, if necessary, a year ago. The finance and economy ministry has already ordered the competent services to check that those funds were used for use, and they will deliver a report to your committee within three to four weeks. I am taking this opportunity to repeat to the honourable MPs, perhaps you have already seen this, that last week, the Government of the Republic of Serbia decided to launch a comprehensive control of the business of all state institutions, of all budget users. This involves not only the ministries, but agencies, funds and other types of organisation of the state administration. We will deliver, within a month, a report, first to the government, of course to you, about how the money was spent, whether there were any problems. I think it will be a very important step not only in the management of the state but, I would say, and a gradual return, I hope to quickly regain the trust of our citizens to the state and to those who manage their money. It's not our money, it's not your money, it's our money. So that's the second move that's equally important for the future. Finally, the new RTS law has already begun. For up to three months, he will come to this house for a vote, and I think it will round up the reforms and the organisation of this key aspect of our social life. So I explained to you very briefly these three reasons, which is why I'm asking you today to vote, by emergency procedure, to lift the electricity tax. I've also put out three of the following moves that we're taking in that area. Dear People's MPs, I invite you to vote today to lift this fee. Your vote today is not about eliminating quality state television, on the contrary, it is a voice for the start of an important move, important reforms of the state institution, and that, during which month, all of us, independent of political determination, are very proud, such as people in some countries are very proud of that institution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u535	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Are the committee's reporters reporting for word? No, I don't. ) Are the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u536	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've never been satisfied with the work of state television before, and I haven't been satisfied since the day you took over, or the question is which one of you took over the state television, because the editorial policy of RTS, I hear about it is not DOS, but rather some of the hiduces that got into RTS. None of you individually agree with this editorial policy, but it extends from day to day. First, to inform the promoter that he has violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and to inform the President of the National Assembly of Article 60(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia - and I heard you say that whoever is talking about what I am talking about, I am talking about violations of the Constitution and the law, don't blame the MP who indicates that someone is proposing laws and thus insulting the Constitution and laws, so I guess that's helping the authorities at least listen to how the Constitution is violated, and then consider whether or not I'm making up the law and saying, "The law, the other regulation or general act, which creates commitments for the budget, cannot be passed if the previous body that adopts the relevant regulation, or act, does not determine that those obligations are provided." The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly take care of that constitutional obligation. In Article 132(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: - as a condition that the bill enters the assembly procedure - requires that the proposer's explanation must contain "an assessment of the amount of financial resources necessary for the implementation of the law". We have been given the proposal to explain that financial resources are needed to implement this law. That's not enough under the Constitution or the law. We needed the finance and economy minister to write -- to implement this law takes a million, two, five, ten, funds are provided here and there, in the budget, and since this is a new commitment to the budget, this and that budget user will be abolished, so that this law can be implemented. It is obvious that financial resources are needed to implement this law. Every month, on the basis of a television fee, television picked up certain funds. Now he'll be without those funds. But don't make it look like I'm the one who's gonna pay the tax, even though we took part in bringing it. The Serbian Radical Party has twice proposed laws that abolish television tax. It was once in September 1993, and on October 10, 1993, a session was launched at which the first point was - a proposal for the resolution of the government of Nikola Sainovic, and the second point - the Radio Television Act, which provides for the Management Board of Radio Television to be multilateral and to abolish the TV tax. I dare say that Slobodan Milosevic disbanded the National Assembly not to defend Nikola Sainovic, but to defend his Radio Television. I'm also convinced that you'd rather sacrifice your influence on the Prime Minister if you're left with a government than an influence on national radio television. The National Assembly held a session on the agenda of the Radio-Television Bill, which was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, in its regular session in 2000. I am now interested -- the answer should give the secretary and better to worry about, rather than worry about how the kidnapping of office furniture and computer from the Serbian Radical Party's Parliament Group will be done -- I am interested in the fate of starting a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whose agenda includes the Law on Radio Television on the proposal of the Serbian Radical Party and whether the Secretary of the Assembly has delivered proposals to the government that are included in the agenda, in the agenda of the session that is still going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u537	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u538	I'll only go out once. We're not against the billing of a television fee, we're not against the current payment method, and if that amount were 20 or 30 dinars, you wouldn't have anything to do with it. The problem is height and the problem is that the amount of tax is related to the price of electricity, and that problem would be waiting for you, too, because you're preparing enormous power purchases. In order for that to go away somehow, you have to cancel the TV fee. That's why the tax is abolished, while at the same time creating a commitment in the budget to make up for it, and if you're going to take the people on the bridge or on the keg, it doesn't matter to the people. Money to support Serbia's Radio-Television will be taken from the people, by taxpayers. You're saying this way has been unnatural so far. Yes, he was unnatural. Ever since I went to elementary school, we bought the first TV set, and there was this incasant coming to our door all the time, and we were paying for our television subscription. That's why the vast majority of Serbian citizens, you're wrong, the minister, is wrong if it is against the billing of television fees. The vast majority of Serbian citizens have TV and will somehow pay for it, and now they will have to redo lists by house again, to determine who has the receiver, and then people will start making up that they are in mourning, so they'll make up that their TV is broken, so they'll come from television to flatten their cable on TV, and they'll buy another TV or already have it in the shed, so they'll turn it on and watch, they were all problems facing the state. Some of you still haven't realized that they've taken over the state, that you're no longer an opposition. You can throw all you want at me, and I'm warning you of the problems you're going to have. The problems are very big. You're unhappy with state television, you say it's a disgrace to this country. You say it was a shame, and I say it's a shame now. Nothing's changed. They served the regime until October 5th, serving the regime from October 5th. You have not yet realized that you are the regime, that you are the ones who exercise power and that you have listeners in all the media and in national radio television, semitrons, investors. Does it make any difference whether his name is Komrakov or his name is Milanovic? What's the difference? In the name and last name? Not Komrakov, what is the name of this half-tron, the Church. It doesn't make any difference. Milosevic is praised for every move he makes, Kostunica is now praised for every move he makes, no words of criticism, no words of rebuke, no words of common sense, no words of opposition. There's no other voice that can be heard from state radio television. Then what's the difference? I mean, what's going on with the state radio? The minister made it clear that he would not eliminate state radio television, but knowing the minister of justice and the way he solves many problems in many companies I expect bankruptcy. It's the easiest way. You have your president in the Court of Commerce, you have your judges, you have your bankruptcy, you have your temporary management in the company and so on in Galenica, so in Zorka Farma, wherever Minister Batic appears with automatic rifles, almost, factories, unable to do business, and there's something to get out of it. Just to warn you that even with this bill, you, in fact, try to reach out to the citizens of Serbia, are also advocating to foreign mentors. Unlike you, I had reason to worry about family members during my aggression. Unlike you, I was terribly interested in information from the state radio. Unlike you, I realized why they're tearing down our radio television, because we shouldn't have heard what we're talking about in this war, but what Deutsche says is big, Voice of America, Free Europe, what the aggressor says. Unlike you, I expect real state television, it doesn't need to be abolished, and there's no state to shut it down. You think we'll come all free from abroad, especially from America, as we have seven ministers. The American proverb, ministers, reads - free cheese is located only in a mousefish. Think about it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u539	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u540	Mr. President, dear fellow MPs, the second day we're wasting our time on a few points that are irrelevant to the time we live in. If it is an emergency session and an emergency procedure, then the Serbian Unity Party considers it a matter of current time, and we know that Serbia in the war, in southern Serbia, is a war, we know that agricultural production and sowing start tomorrow, and that such agenda points, this is the fourth extraordinary session, it was not on the agenda. The Serbian Unity Party will support the abolition of the tax so far paid by citizens and agrees with the minister's argument only in the first part, which is why the tax should be abolished. Like yesterday when it comes to the second item of the agenda, which we haven't received a solution if it's already an emergency session and if it's an emergency session, then there should be a solution to what goes beyond that agenda point, and we all know that we've criticised that privatisation law over the past two years. We're coming to the 3rd point of the agenda, which also has no solution to what's next. We have not heard from which source the Radio Television of Serbia will be financed, and we know very well that the guaranteed source of income, which has been until the day since this tax was abolished, has not given enough for everything that has been spent by the Radio Television of Serbia. Not to talk about movies, not to talk about cultural life, who didn't have the funding from that funding. The Serbian Unity Party would ask most MPs, how necessary it is for every extraordinary session, for future emergency session and agenda points to the time period in which we live. The Serbian Unity Party believes that if someone is addicted, and in any case from today's RTS will be dependent on the government, and will have to listen to that editorial policy that the government imposes. We also have an example on the local level. It was before, and even today, wherever the former government or opposition had power in certain cities, these media were only in their position. I'll give you an example that was in Jagodina a few days ago. For the first time, a session of the Assembly of the Municipality was held secret, closed, and only the local media, the founder of the Jagodina Municipality Assembly, could attend. Why? In order not to hear some abuses of certain officials, if they had hired their sister the first day they came to power, that only the chairman of the Jagodin Municipality, his wife, who talks about cakes and movables, his father who is a candidate for director, etc. This people in Serbia did not vote for such people. I don't think television, like national television, RTS hasn't been national in the right sense of that word in the past four years, and these days too. I will give you an example that on the day a soldier was killed in Bujanovac, the contribution from Bujanovac on the case was 50 seconds, and in the prime time at 21.30 p.m. on RTS was a show of prostitution, what prostitutes on the streets of Belgrade do, because it probably has an educational effect on our youth. The Serbian Unity Party is asking the government and all the competent ones in charge, and in any case that you have a certain majority in this assembly, that all the media in Serbia, and especially national television, be in office as Serbian citizens. Once again, we will support the abolition of this law, not to pay citizens, but I am afraid that the first information we heard from the minister, that what he was saying thought it was Switzerland, because he's talking and talking about some commercial services. What commercial services and who today from factories in Serbia to advertise and what to advertise, when production stopped. Instead of all that happened in the last time period in Yugoslavia, all those statesmen who came to Yugoslavia and Serbia, we asked them to sign one contract with the Nis Power Industry, with the cable factory, with the IMT, and to start producing and to live from their work. Then they will be good for us and RTS and they will be satisfied with the citizens who are in the majority, who have not been mentioned for a month, those who work in factories in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u541	The first elected MP is MP Zarko Obradovic, followed by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u542	The Honorable Presidency, respected fellow MPs, in the draft Law amending the RTS Act, where the existing way of financing RTS work is abolished, the government's intention is in fact to completely destroy RTS, as a national, state television, to create some new television, which will be the information centre of certain stakeholders, but in the post of DOS. How? TV was first significantly destroyed during NATO bombing in the spring of 1999. On that occasion, a building was hit on Abardar Street, people were killed, equipment destroyed. In addition, numerous television relays have been destroyed throughout Serbia. TV was practically thrown on its knees back then. In the devastating events of October 5th last year, the Abardar Street building suffered more damage than during the bombing. RTS was demoted, robbed and burned. This time almost destroyed the show and other RTS equipment. Many people in RTS have lost their ability to work. This, of course, had practical consequences on the work of television itself, as chosen by so-called. similar workers from the new management structure, as well as in the way the television itself works, who then literally functioned as a DOS policy affirmation. The national television space has been filled with VIN, network and ANEM shows in recent months, and according to my knowledge, television has paid for this broadcast. These shows were not only politically colored, of course in DOS function, but RTS paid them dearly as state television. I wonder why? Why aren't such shows made by RTS people, is it possible that between seven, eight, or nine thousand people, how much they work in RTS, there were no people capable of producing emissions of that content? Or other reasons, of course, are political and financial. The employees on TV almost don't even work. On the other hand, similar people, even pensioners, are brought in to run and edit the program without having any official status in television, and of course they have no responsibility for what they do. On TV, unconfirmed information is often heard from almost all kinds of sources. For example, in a TV diary, we could hear a pearl that the staff of this republican congregation were forbidden to communicate with the MPs. If national television can place such low lies or deal with such topics, then it's the best proof of where it is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u543	Mr. MP, I'm asking you to come back on the subject, we're not talking about editorial policy, we're talking about a taxi, we're talking about a tax suspension. Be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u544	Current television has turned into a means of media preparation for the persecution of political insinuators. The press has become prosecutors and judges, even cops. And not newscasters, so instead of the government offering a program, what kind of television should be, how to finance, it promises, it keeps its pre-election promise, not taking care of the consequences of that, or maybe it's aware of those consequences. By abolishing the existing way of funding, there is a further erosion of television. There will be no money to create the programme, there will be a reduction in the number of employees, because their funding will be difficult or impossible and, of course, there will be further instrumentalisation of national television. I say, national television, because many people don't understand the character of RTS. It should inform Serbian citizens of issues and problems that have a state character, the work of state institutions, relevant factors, and not that gro news makes up information that has neither state nor political weight, but are in the role of government or DOS policy. Like, that's the case with the resistance citizens' association, which I don't know why they deserve so much mercy from television. Therefore, all of this shows that television is being destroyed or has already been destroyed technically, programmeically, and contentally. National television is in such a situation that, in addition to constant sources of funding, such as electricity tax, it was also required to provide additional funds to enable it to be and operate as state and national television. Instead, television is cut off from the source of funding. The new funds for her work are not provided, and there is no concept of national television - what it should be. It is not good for state television, nor for the state of Serbia, its citizens, nor for the system of information that exists. Television and employees deserve a better fate than the one given to it by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we're voting against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u545	The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u546	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indisputable that the tax from which Serbia's Radio Television was financed was already in this assembly and in front of this parliament on the agenda. For known reasons, the suspension of this Parliament and its disbandment, the law has not been treated and an adequate solution has not been reached. It is before us again that the bill, not in that form, but only in the part of the removal of five members who regulate electricity tax issues, and I fully agree that it was in most part unfair to individual users who had a number and had no opportunities or had no receiver over which they could monitor the radio television programme. This is certainly part of this aggression that was made in 1999 on our country, because many transmitters have been torn down, damaged and put out of service and thus narrowed down the area of monitoring Serbia's Radio Television. So there's no question that this kind of funding should be abolished. I think this second way, as explained by the respected minister, is also unfair, because the budget is full and funded in the most part of the tax, not taxes, but sales taxes paid by all citizens of the country. And since this item is located, as we have heard from the Committee on Culture, in the current budget reserve, which should have around 210 million dinars available in this period of three months, but these are not the funds used solely for this purpose, but also for other unforeseen purposes that occur in need, and are not foreseen by the provisional budget and not by the permanent budget. I'd like to underline one more thing. As we pass this law and pass these other laws by an emergency procedure, where they are put out of force and this law, the one of yesterday, and also at the fifth point of the agenda will be the Information Act, which is also put out of effect, I don't understand why we didn't put the Republic of Serbia's budget on the agenda, the biggest legislative act in this funding area, where we could then and Decidically say how much funds are needed and how much budgeting is foreseen for the co-financing of RTS. The earlier tax was financed not only by RTS. A portable technique has also been funded, local radio stations that have taken over Radio Belgrade programmes and have been in the radio station community. That part of the funds is not mentioned anywhere in the explanation and proposal of the Honorable Minister. It is also not said from which funds will replace what was provided for by this law so far, and this is a 1.5% exemption for financing cinematography, and in collaboration with the Ministry of Culture, where these projects were negotiated and worked to finance. So these are some things that are the shortcomings in this way of adopting this regulation. I think the government has made a great commitment that all these problems must be resolved in the next period. I don't think I'd agree that in RTS, in this kind of flat-rate manner, nothing was right in the previous period. Please, there are things about the information program, but there are other jobs that the RTS has done in an extremely high-quality and honorable way, received international recognitions and international awards in terms of the educational programme and in terms of the programme and TV series. I think there's a significant number of artists and cultural workers who have created these programs and created not only television workers. And, another thing that's very important. On radio television, as far as Belgrade is concerned, there are about 7,900 employees, according to information I have. The big question is how that part will be financed, and also within the framework of RTS is TV Novi Sad. There are other local networks, local television. Therefore, all of this should be taken into account when discussing the new law, when discussing the way we finance, and it is certain that we had the first budget and item, the bill, in order to discuss this law far better. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u547	The People's MP Predrag Mijailovic has the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u548	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here in Uzic they say, "Who's waiting, that's the welcome one." I waited and waited, because I am one of those MPs who voted in 1993 not to pass this law. That's when the law was passed by the SPS and the radicals, 1993. [[Laughter in O.R.]] Well, it's not that you're not a little ear-biter and you don't hear it. It's not my fault (he's talking to one of the MPs). [[Laughter]] Time's done a lot, maybe your dad was in parliament back then. What you didn't hear is your business. Now I've been waiting to vote for this law to be abolished. Because this law was particularly harmful to television, that is, our national television. The money for that national television didn't come from a subscription, because if I did, we'd have modern equipment today. Our employees on TV would have better salaries. But she had damage to the electricity industry because the legislator knew exactly that this money had to be collected, and it was ensured through Article 33 that it must be collected and that whoever did not give the money, from the electricity industry to take and there was a normal punishment. Look at article 33. So she had damages and electricity if she couldn't raise money from a TV subscription, or from a counter. But you're going to say here - so what's two and a half marks per number. When we take 33 million and 300,000 of the numbers that are in Serbia, outside Kosovo and Metohija, and when we multiply 2.5 marks, we get to eight million marks, 12 times 12 amounts to 96 million marks a year. Let's not say seven years from now. Multiply. That's 700 million marks. Where's the money? That money must've gone to business, but whose name it was. They left in private hands or left for the apartments of certain people who were privileged. And what do you think that money has been turned, let's say it's given to agriculture or some other profitable branch -- what we'd have today. I say that this law, i.e. the abolition of this law, is the beginning of the removal of those laws, which were passed from 1945 to 2000. That's why it is up to the DOS government to end all these injustices and this is just one symbolic beginning, what the DOS government has promised to do to the people, to remove the previously unwarranted laws, and to in the future, if laws are passed, that these laws are respected and the money collected from these laws goes to those to whom it is intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u549	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u550	Dear People's MPs, this is already the second draft law, which is offered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which repeals the previous law and does not give new solutions, or a new bill, that would function instead of an old law. And I'm telling you, believe us, we're going to make a better law, we're going to have to wait for a month -- two, three, six months, and it's going to be European laws, laws that will meet all the criteria, and so on, trust us on the word. You can't trust anyone for a word. Instead of the old law, a new law must be proposed. The minister said in an explanation that it must literally start from building new television. I agree, the old man was burned by your Maki, and we literally need to start building new television. It's a paradox. The man who burns down the image of Minister Batic on the demonstrations will be detained, and whoever burns down the television, or the National Assembly, he becomes a national hero. How so far has the subscription been charged for television -- by writing with the electricity consumption bill and a certain amount relating to the TV subscription. The same man, the incassant, charged costs for both spent electricity and TV subscription. There's no cheaper way to charge. The price of the TV subscription is according to the regime's "Politika", you can read it today, 61 dinars and 21 pairs. Whether it's much or little, it can be discussed. The subscription is about the cost of 100 kilowatts of electricity, you're counting in a more expensive winter tariff, and in that bush lies a rabbit. Since you intend to increase your electricity prices enormously, this way the billing TV would also be one-of-a-kind. The finance minister will calculate it better than I do. It's not three times twenty-five, so let's just single out 75%, but when we add that new winter tariff, at the end of the year, that would be a sumptuous increase of around 190 percent of the electricity price. Indeed, in such conditions, the TV subscription would be huge. And it's not until the end. You're counting on the price of electricity to increase to 5-6 pfening per kilowatt hour. If that's the case, I'd rather pay the TV subscription this way than pay the electricity that's going to cost so much that none of the average salary can pay it. And my predecessor, SPO MP, was a little behind the pay phone, said it was two and a half stamps. But be careful, if two-and-a-half marks are the price of a TV subscription, to pay for the electricity of 300-400 marks, and it's inevitable, and you said yourself, you're going to increase the price of electricity until there's a European electricity price, and you know what it is, from three cents to five or six pfenings. These are precisely the reasons why DOS submits this bill, to hide something that will happen very soon. I resent you, I read in the press, before the election you said -- we have a prepared package of laws, 100, 200, 300 laws. Now look for the pardons and ask for some time. You'll have to take it now. To be clear, the SRS will vote in favour of this bill, because we have also submitted this bill, as our deputy head of the parliamentary group said, on two occasions, but our reasons are quite different. They're not gonna hide anything. I also thank the SPO MP who spoke before me, which confirmed my words that the subscription is about two stamps a month now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u551	He has the word of Ambassador Predrag Mijailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u552	I have to say, I've always been a principled opposition, and I've never been in power. The moment the godfather came into power, that moment I left the SPO, 1993, at the end. And now DOS's power, as you say, is already in advance thinking that the people wouldn't be fine, because tomorrow when the electricity price rises, there won't be a linear increase in television. So, we're thinking about what needs to be done, and whether there's going to be an increase in price or not, it's not mine, it's a matter of government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u553	There's a word from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u554	Well, whether you're an MEP or a DOS MP, now it's less important, it's important that you confirm my word that there will be these gatherings, the enormous purchases of electricity. I expected the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia to join in this debate, too, I know that many of them are not satisfied with the work of state television, but I have been explained that their boss, Cedomir Jovanovic, is prohibiting them from reporting, so that someone can report from the union or social democracy, but no one from the Democratic Party of Serbia should.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u555	The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u556	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party gave a draft law on radio and television at the previous sessions, but unfortunately, although this has taken place on the agenda, with someone's own free will, the session has never been suspended, and this has entered the agenda of today's session. Why an emergency procedure? It's obvious that someone is in a hurry to cancel the fee this way, by emergency procedure. All of this leads me to believe that this motivation of the bill's promoter is the inevitable collection of electricity, which has been announced from DOS circles as a gift to Serbian citizens for the elected changes. There's gotta be a change, that's right. The price of electricity will never be what it was. Now the current will be more expensive several times. How to conduct a TV subscription, for which television, whether for state television, so-called. Serbia's new TV, whether for Studio B, whether BK, Pink, or other TV, remains unclear. And so can Palma. What I do not understand is that the means to implement this law will be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The law cannot be passed in this way, but the source of the funds must be known. It's the easiest way to hit the budget, and we don't know how you're gonna fill it. The economy is collapsed, no serious company is working, so there won't be any money for the budget. For you of DOS, the best option is to sit and wait for the waste from your favorite European Union and America. Who knows, maybe they'll give you some money if you're co-operative with The Hague tribunal. They are more dear to you than the interests of your own people. Mr. Minister, you don't want to end state television, which is normal, because everywhere in the modern world, there's at least one channel of state television, which has this role to serve the regime faithfully, just like the current so-called. Serbia's new television is faithfully serving DOS. Serbian citizens are now free of one obligation, which is that sometimes they stare at the daily newspapers, to see what's on the so-called program. Serbia's new TVs, in particular, to see who is hosting and from which political options in the Open Studio show. They don't have to do that at all right now. You have helped them very much, because every Serbian citizen certainly knows only one of the DOS leaders, whether it is Zoran Djindjic, Vladan Batic, Nebojsa Covic, Micunovic, etc. It is completely irrelevant, and for the others, by your democratic principle, there is no place.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u557	He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law delivered to us by the government and to be voted by the SRS Parliamentary Group today, amending the Law on RTV Serbia, is something Serbian radicals have been up to since 1993. Mostly you from the current assembly of the interested group, DOS, used your attacks on the SRS to introduce Seselj and Radicals, as you said, as the minister said, the electricity tax, which is actually a TV subscription, but then the modusa was found, so Serbian citizens pay for what they see on state television. However, as our deputy president said, we started with the initiative in 1993 to abolish the tax, and at the end of the October National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party submitted a comprehensive proposal for RTS law, which we will have to wait here and not so easily go, Mr Djelic, given the tensions raised in public and among RTS employees and among those who now hold primate there and who are taking the lead and among those who claim to manage RTS. What would certainly be the most correct in that future reform that you are announcing, and you did not at least tell us indicatively how you intend to make the RTS governance factor, and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and we MPs here, we are taking part in the future board of directors. Such is exactly the law that the Serbian Radical Party has submitted, where the television subscription is expected to be abolished, not in order to allocate funds for the main activity of RTS through a carefully determined amount in the Republic of Serbia's budget. In order for citizens to be satisfied, and certainly today many will be pleased that in this way the tax will be abolished because you plan as one of your colleagues said, an enormous increase in electricity prices, and thus the amount for television will grow, because already now you can know what you said and not only you but also your colleagues in the public, that this index of increase is not only 3 times 25, so by simple sum you get to 75% increase in price, but it is about 100% as much as you plan, and perhaps more. We understand your reasons on this side, but you haven't given us any examples, let's say countries in the environment, where in a similar way, it's an example of Greece, where a phone bill is paid and a subscription to state television. State television as a national good of general interest, above all RTS, for Serbian citizens to be satisfied with it, and will be financed from public revenues, so you said, from the budget. Anything financed from public income must serve the purpose of which it is intended and satisfy the interests of the wider population and citizens who have different political beliefs. You have not shown good will in this regard to change the editorial concept on RTS and, on the one hand, it is understandable, because it is difficult for you to control a group of people who have fallen in with your help and here you should have put to change the law on "new" Serbian Radio TV, because it is not the old one, the old one is on fire. It will be difficult for you to explain to Gordani Sushi who, by the way, did not even pay for the series of her VIN, an extremely anti-Serbian editorial program and informative for all this time as it broadcasts, as well as the V.D. itself. Director Mr. Ristic said - we'll get into a situation that even we'll have to pay her. Then how are you going to solve with all those who do not want to be financed in this way and how you will, with the president from your political group, become the director of RTS, Mr. Isaac, who simply believes that a difficult situation will come if you cancel the tax and the inability to finance television in this way. For it to be of general interest to all Serbian citizens and to be financed from public revenues, from the budget, which we have proposed, and we will see how you will balance incomes and expenditures and how much that amount will be set for RTS financing, and you said by the end of March when the budget for this year of the Republic of Serbia is drawn up. Its obligation would be to inform citizens in an honest, timely and professional manner and to contribute to the free formation and expression of audiences and viewers' opinions. How many Serbian citizens could see in all your information shows, in the already famous Dosnik at 7:30 p.m., figures from the DOS political group are changing. With a press conference by the opposition political party, such as the Serbian Radical Party, on the occasion of that day, on our views at the press conference, there is only one sentence. In one sentence, you can hear on state television that Serbian Radical Party Vice President Tomislav Nikolic held a press conference and said, which is true, that the arrival of Javier Solana in Belgrade is a tragedy for the Serbian people and that's the point. It is impossible for us to expect people who are now running, and in the future, television, editing in such a way the information program, to do something new, because all of us, when we watch central news shows of Serbian Radio Television, are located in the time machine as if we watch a diary from the late '70s and 80s and the same characters, proven Tito's communists, edit central news shows today at DOS's orders on state television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u559	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word, followed by Velimir Zivojinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u560	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, state television has so far served and whose interests. At the arrival of DOS authorities, pensioners were expected to leave television and, as some say, stutterers because there are many objections who have come to state television. We expected DOS to repair the building of Television after coming to power and forming the government, that people who are employed on TV and management in Television would rather repair those infrastructure facilities needed to broadcast the programs than buy luxury cars and equip cabinets. Some pensioners have returned on state television, those who have been reading NATO pact bulletins for the past few years have returned. Now state television has become a bulletin reader of 18 DOS political parties. In addition, state television has become a reader of the bulletins and daily statements of the UN tribunal and NATO Pact, such as some TVs that even received during the bombing and a special award for NATO reporting. As for the Serbian Radical Party, these statements can appear within a month in two sentences. That's why I'd be a minister of a lot of what I'd probably be able to believe, his program and his ideas, if I hadn't heard a statement that our finance minister left a salary of 100,000 marks and came by 200 marks, believe me, I would have believed him a lot, but I can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u561	Go back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u562	I'm sorry, I can't believe you, and if that's possible, did you find a deputy from where you came from, Mr. Minister? You mentioned something else about television, and I now refer to the leader of one of the parties that makes DOS, to Mr. Isaac, where he says Isaac is coming and that it will all be done in the best order. But last night, Mr. Isaac said -- I don't know where I'll be able to secure a material asset for 8,500 workers if the electricity tax is lifted. It's obvious there's something wrong with that. That's why I don't have much confidence, I'm not so sure, let at least some of what you promised be achieved, but I don't have much hope for that. It would be necessary, as it is about state television, to take care of the personnel coming on that television, to take care of the number of employees and whether the state of Serbia will be able to pay 8,500, maybe tomorrow and 15,000 because the DOS has come, maybe it will hire as well as predecessors, maybe not, but we will see. That's why I think state television must be objective, and it has to be rational and economical. Indeed, as a lawyer, this does surprise me. I said yesterday that the rule of law, the Constitution and the law, was the first victim of your new authority. Which is why you let the vacuum happen in six months. If you were determined to accept even the idea of a radical, who twice suggested that the number and charge of television be abolished through an electric dial? Why didn't you pass a short bill during this period of time? It's not a bond law, you don't write about Roman law. Therefore, narrow down and give as short a period of time as possible to pass a new law on television and to apply the offices, but only by abolishing the ruling parties' monopoly from state television.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u563	The People's MP Velimir Zivojinovic has the word, and then the MP Dragan Sormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u564	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, simply a man who doesn't believe that he finally, in a normal way, is legal, came for this pay phone. I've been reported to speak twice. I'm used to that service. I came here first this morning, and I put the application here, and now I'm on my way. Why didn't that service of mine come forward today? I don't think that's right and it's a pretty inappropriate joke. Speaking of this law on television, the most painful thing is that we can't interfere with the editorial policy of this television. There's someone who's gonna do it. However, if the subject has been numbered, that has already been said. The theme of this law on television is very tight and it's a very vague law. Practically, I don't understand, I'm going to have to ask Mr. Secretary, how long do we have to wait to pass the right law on television? That's one thing. Second, which resolution ministry is in charge of television? There is no announcement of any concrete, no one has publicly said that the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Koraq, is in charge of this. If so, let it be said that he represents the ministry that and that. As far as the Law on Television is concerned, I believe that three ministries should be in charge, because television and film are not only art, but also industry, which lives and creates from a certain technique. Therefore, the Ministry of Culture would, of course, have its own certain powers in all this, the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Trade. I think it makes sense to connect it all, because no television can live without technique. Someone said just now, a little bit of a depression to do, Mr. Ex, I don't understand where you're from, said it's invested enough in television and now television has great technique, which is not true. Our television is at the lowest level regarding the technical base. Another piece of information that our whole Serbia doesn't have a single film camera, that is, a 35-millimeter camera. Let me connect a little with the movie, because television and film are in close cooperation, we don't have a single camera that we can make a normal movie right now. We simply give millions of foreign exchanges every year to that technique that we don't have. That is, it's cameras, lighting and labs. Developing from these cameras, television or electronic, switching to 35, carries our Republic millions of foreign exchanges. That means approximately 10 million marks. Only because our technique is in desperate condition. Second, that technique is not renewed. I think the law on television should take care of it, like, I see it's about the 1.5%. Those 1.5%, I don't think it's clear to anyone who's supposed to take it or who's supposed to give it. Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. The culture ministry has decided on a particular film to give him 100,000 marks. On those 100,000 marks, television is required to give that dollar a half on the stamp, stamp and a half. That's all. You can't make a movie now, that someone's making a private movie, doesn't get government funding, and goes on TV and asks for 1.5%. It can't. The most important thing now is how much will the Ministry of Culture predict in the Serbian film production budget, so that he knows how much he has to give. It's not clear to the one who takes it, nor to the one who gives it, because where does television let it give a million and a half marks, if the government gave a million, because it's going to go back to the government again, so it's going to be given to us from the same budget reserve.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u565	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u566	And I just wanted to say a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u567	The People's MP Dragan Šormaz has the word, and after him, MP Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u568	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why do we have to lift our taxes on television? For the simple reason, wherever I was in this area, means as a candidate for an MP or as an activist of the DSS, otherwise I come from Smederev, in any village, citizens, depending on what they are dealing with, they have always complained about their problems related to their work, and the main regret they have given to the previous authorities or what has been bothering them are all the time high bills of electricity, which they have received, which have been caused by an enormous interest, then, an advance, interest on advances and a tax on RTS. By the way, I got an obligation in front of the Smederevo Municipality, which is otherwise voted, to ask the government to deal with this problem urgently. So, interest in electricity, which is calculated by the Elektroprivreda of Serbia to citizens, interest, advances, interest on advances, and how this issue can be resolved, and of course it is related to this. By the way, everyone asked for it to be abolished and the tax to be abolished. That's why, simply, our obligation as new authorities is because that's what the citizens asked us to do, to cancel the fee on the count. I would ask the opposition gentlemen not to shed crocodile tears over the future director of RTS television, whoever it is, because he's going to have to deal with what his job is, which is that he has to be able to organize the work of that television without paying that fee. If he doesn't work well, you're here, so you'll appreciate his work and you'll be able to criticize. You don't have to worry about him in advance. By the way, I had no intention of answering this part of the agenda. I apologize to the presidency. However, I came forward because Mr Nikolic spoke here as president or deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. Namely, I feel offended by the last part of your speech, because you made a flat-rate statement. I don't know if it's about collecting political points, but that way you'll lose them if you keep working like that, because I know the reason why you were worried about the last NATO bombing, but my mother was also concerned about the NATO bombing, because I was sitting on top as a member of the PSC, four months, I was praised and promoted during that war. You can check that with you in the Kragujeva Corps, and otherwise you've been informed via Studio B, TV Panchevo and TV Smederevo by your own words, not RTS, and I'm asking you not to say that in the future -- we did this while you were doing it during the war.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u569	I apologize to you, Mr. Messenger, and from now on, when I speak of traitors, I will single you out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u570	The People's MP, Stevan Guduric, has the word, and then the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u571	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've got one bill again, but unlike yesterday, the promoter himself has not put any amendments on himself, so we've made significant progress. If we're talking about abolishing the fee on the count, with the kind of explanation it's given, we're not going to pay, we're going to take out our wallet, but before our wallet, someone's going to take our money, pay the TV, and I don't know what's the big difference in that payment. It was said that you were talking in an election campaign that you would cancel the fee on a number that is connected to television, but you were also talking when it was brought about that television is a profitable company and how it should be financed, not by dragging your hand into the citizens' pocket, and now you indirectly drag your hand into the citizens' pockets because the budget is not filled with Martians, but again these same citizens, of whom the budget is being filled. What would probably be better is for us Mr. Minister, who today's opening statement that we talked today or yesterday about the budget, because it's probably some basic question we need to talk about, not some gendarmes, etc. I guess this would be a more important issue than this, and it's not yet in place, so the Serbian government has the right to have a budget that we don't even know what it looks like and it's also very normal, if it's done in municipalities, then I don't know why it wouldn't work at the Assembly of the Republic, that when it's said something is funded from the budget, then it's said what that amount is and what positions are in the budget. That's some basic order, so at least so far it's been in the congregations of municipalities that are lower than this. I would also ask the President of the Assembly, yesterday he did not protect us from Mr Batic to insult us, and today, when the minister spoke about editorial policy, he later warned the MPs that they were not doing the same. As far as I know, we MPs should be equal to ministers if we're not above them, because yesterday we talked about who beats who. To talk about editorial policy then we need to talk about two editorial policies, Serbian Radio Television and New Radio Television Serbia, and since the gentleman talked about the editorial policy of Serbian Radio Television, I will not repeat it, and I ask him to talk about the editorial policy of Serbia's New Radio Television. If editorial policy isn't on Radio TV that I watch Mr. Batic every night, as if he's a speaker, the truth is he doesn't stutter like these new ones, then it's very good. If this is a new editorial policy, we've improved quite well, and it would be very normal if this is said to be something, what is this Radio Television of Serbia. Is that Nova Sad TV? What is the government's definition and the minister's decision on the Vojvodina Assembly's decision to define TV Novi Sad as something else? We have a statement, at the end of the day, when the 18th-headed bureau body of DOS argued afterwards that Mr. Isakov said that most likely the Serbian Radio Television, Nova, would be put into bankruptcy and would then make one even more recent than that. If something is financed from the budget, then it should be clear what it is that will be financed from the budget, whether in this case it will also be financed by the Vojvodina Assembly by its decision practically defining as something that does not belong to Serbia's Radio Television or it will be different. You've said very well that the laws at DOS are coming to the vote, not adoption, because these of you don't seem to know how to talk, they just lift two fingers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u572	The word has the People's Messenger Gordana Pop-Lazic, and then the People's Messenger Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u573	Ladies and gentlemen, you will receive my apology, but I will first address the public and viewers by the small screen. For days I've been going out for this pay phone under my name and last name, Gordana Pop-Lazic, head of the Serbian Radical Party's Parliament Club. We have neatly informed the Serbian Parliament that Dr Vojislav Seselj is the head of the Parliament club and that Tomislav Nikolic is the deputy head of the Parliament Club, which is also the president of the Assembly overlooked yesterday. I really don't know whether the Assembly misinformed Serbian Radio Television or did Serbia's TV in its manner to misinformation continues to do so, but don't trust another disinformation of Dosovsia. I am Gordana Pop-Lazic, an MP for the Serbian Radical Party in the Serbian Parliament. Please don't make this time count in my discussion. The government has sent us a bill amending the Radio Television Act and I cannot understand that it has been difficult for the Serbian government to prepare a comprehensive radio television law in this period, since the formation of the government so far. If you don't have it, gentlemen, or you don't know who's supposed to make it, here's a ready-made proposal from the Serbian Radical Party, which was filed in October. We'll vote for that proposal, even if you call it your own. There is not much time to discuss the bill based on some professional and legal and technical points of view, because we have been denied to speak as much as we are allowed in the Rules of Procedure. In five minutes, there's really nothing to say and I feel like we even look a little funny when we go out and we can just give some basics, and we need to talk about laws. When it comes to laws, then there must be everything in mind, both the Constitution and the previous law and the explanation that the promoter gives, and we simply don't have time to draw attention to it all to the public, and neither to you here in the parliamentary benches. I, however, want to say that in the explanation it is a misrepresented article. 46th and 72nd. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. I can't quote them, you have the Constitution, so read, and that just shows the intricacies of the finance minister, who I can forgive, because that's not his profession. I cannot be a secretary of the Legislative Secretariat, which should be a profession, and it is apparently the only qualification that is the wife of current federal interior minister Zoran Zivkovic. The only real reason to pass this law is because it is a state RTS, which is funded by citizens, who, by the way, have been avoiding for years following a programme of state television, which has always been a function of daily policy and interest groups and monopoly authorities. That used to be SPS and JUL, and today it's DOS. In addition to informative information, objective information and a well-designed programme should also play a significant educational role for all categories of population. How much of these funds will be allocated from the budget to finance state television, the proposal does not say. Apparently he doesn't know, the predecessors talked about it, so I'm going to skip it, to fill these five minutes in an adequate way. However, if you think that funding will go out of the budget amnesty to properly inform the public about everything that is going on, because it is a constitutional obligation and the right of every citizen to be informed in such a way, because in the end we are all out of our pockets through taxes, taxes and other public revenues that we are charging the budget again, financing that state television. One question for Minister Djelic, specifically, what about those who have deposited electricity? Whether they will be returned the money, which they gave up in advance with an advance payment, given that there are no transitional provisions that would regulate it, and should, because the current tax is calculated at a kilowatt hour rather than a fixed amount. I'm asking you to answer this question. There's something else I want to say. You know, by calling these extraordinary sessions, which, by the way, cost a lot of money to this country, you want to create the impression that the government is running some kind of living legislative activity, and it's actually burying us...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u574	Please finish, and you're out of time by opening a topic that's not on the agenda. Be nice and get it over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u575	I don't think I'm out of time. Here, I'm done. In fact, it's only about clean political marketing and you want to get the impression that you have finished legal projects, and you obviously don't have them, except for Mr Batic's law, which we had on the agenda yesterday, which can be considered comprehensive. Everything else is a hollow story. We should also point out that RTS's work concerns matters of general interest, and we believe that it should be financed from Serbia's budget, but that everything else must be financed primarily from other revenues, and in accordance with the law, especially when it comes to the commercial programme. The Serbian Radical Party believes it is necessary to pass a new RTS law. We have no objection to the suspension of the fee, because it has now proved irrational compared to being tied to the height of the kilowatt hour, and we know which gatherings will go. We will vote in favour of this proposal, but we expect from you a complete RTS law that would regulate and manage RTS and what RTS should give Serbian citizens as a single common good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u576	The People's Messenger Rajko Baralić has the word, and after him is the Messenger Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u577	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, esteemed journalists, dear Mr. Minister, we have already learned in elementary economic descriptor that there are resources and resources. It is also unclear which sources provide compensation for the funds needed for normal operation and operation of RTS. You said that by the time the new RTS law was passed, as well as the adoption of the new budget, it would be settled from the budget reserve. Is it permanent or liquid? You can't do it all the time, because you don't have the right to do it under the law. The current budget reserves finance those things that are necessary to serve because of things that cannot be foreseen by the budget. Dear sir, as many votes as I have in Chačka, we can talk about that at some other time. Let's keep you safe and sound, no problem. Most kindly, please, this is a serious question, the monthly income from the tax on the amount of about 250 million, and on the annual level, that's three billion dinars, so can you tell us how much the government has on the item, which is called the current budget reserve, is that how we objectively endanger someone's rights, which can be financed from this budget place, primarily by intervention? First of all, this is about a clear intention to abolish national production and continue to deplete Serbia, which you have started and which, I think, will be carried out to the end. That will be decided by those voices, sir, which you spoke of earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u578	The People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski has the word, and then the People's Messenger Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u579	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to ask you a few questions. Who's gonna pay for TV and how are they gonna pay for it? People who ask, who are subscribers, they used to pay TV via mail, so now over the numbers, who and how are they going to pay the TV? Will television be paid in the first place? As for this, radicals and SPS, that's two, but SPS and DOS, there's a lot in common. While the SPS was absolutely in power, they persecuted radicals, like DOS now, you don't let them on TV, you cut them off, you do everything the SPS did. No wonder I tell you gentlemen, your leader like Petar Lazovic is, with forgiveness, but on the Kopalnik he got from the SPS suite. That Church, that's the last student, the best student in Kumrovec. It's exactly the same school, whether it's DOS or SPS. I'd like to give an example of a television set that has been receiving both the SPS and the radicals and the current DOS since its beginning. Within DOS, it's Santos TV, which is from Zrenjanin, which is the only television and when they were strangled by the SPS, such as New Democracy and JUL, banned, was the only condition -- pay, and how much you pay for it on TV. As much as and what... He's responsible for that. I think the others should follow the example of Santos TV from Zrenjanin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u580	The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u581	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Law amending the Law on RTS and the proposal of Minister Bozidar Djelic seem to be a major concern for the Government for technical and technological development, for informing the population, for television care, for cinematography, etc. And, of course, we can accept that, and we Serbian did it for the people to be timely and accurately informed, to watch good movies, new films, maybe with old actors sitting here, but we're not for the purpose of using television for purely political purposes, for the purpose of persecuting political inexperience, and not to take care of what we promised citizens, so you promised the citizens in the pre-election campaign. This kind of explanation gives us the right to question honesty and good intentions, because taking the tax off the electricians, so the fees for the TV subscription from the electricians, is not the real and the only reason the finance and economics minister was talking about here. Perhaps there are reasons that are not now neither necessary nor actual for citizens to hear them. The main and one of the main reasons to separate the fee from the TV subscription is that, as we have heard from some DOS MPs here, we have not heard from the minister that there will be an enormous increase in electricity prices. And that's what citizens shouldn't hear from the Minister's mouth, and what we MPs have to say, because it's one of the reasons that's trying to get very quiet around here. Now you expect the citizens to be happy about the cancellation of the fee on a TV subscription. However, the tax is abolished, only the form is not abolished, the form of the collection changes only. It changes the form of the bill and the amount of the charge. It won't be so big a charge that it stays with the electric counter, because electricity will go to the sky high, so it wouldn't be appropriate for it to go to TV subscription, but also TV, which has its own program, isn't as popular in the people and in the citizens as the promoter thinks today. Furthermore, the draft law amending the RTS Act does not show which funds will be compensated from, or from, the budget, or who will fill the budget in order to implement this programme that the minister here spoke of. But that's what we're talking about. I'd mention something else. From which funds and whether these funds are provided will be paid by teams that will have to tour the terrain, to determine the actual situation on the ground, so that they can make fair and fair payments from the user-TV viewers. That is not said in this law, nor did the minister mention it. And it's going to be one really big and big deal. Or maybe there are some black funds that MPs shouldn't know about. This my suspicion is particularly justified, since we've heard here...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u582	Mr. Nikolic and Mr. Sutanovac, I give you a warning. If you're going to keep talking, please step outside. You have coffee and you sit there to please, talk and respect this house and this assembly, as well as the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u583	Are you giving me a warning, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u584	No, go ahead, you go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u585	So, since I suspect these funds, I think it might be black, first of all, because the minister mentioned Mr. Milet Isaac as future director of RTS, and since we know that he was in a frat with Canka and Veselinov at the time, so that they split some money after the 1997 elections, you are not excluded that you will like to have such black funds that you will use instead of telling us from what means, and we have legitimate doubts that it will be. We are really glad to see that the fee on the TV subscription that was tied to the electric system is lifted, because often, not just me, we came to the test, as well as most citizens, to cancel the use and power not because of the level of the TV subscription fee, but because of a program that is forced by editorial policy. So this wasn't state television, and it's not now. It is simply called because it is in the service of the ruling parties, first leftist and now DOS. How charges will be made, on whose account and whose funds will be poured over, where citizens will pay, which TV, we also do not understand. It would be good for the minister to explain to us whether I will be paying sombor television, in Novi Sad, in Belgrade or perhaps in Kosovo Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u586	There is a word from the Messenger of the People, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u587	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the motive for amending the existing RTS Act, packaged in civil custody, is actually putting editorial policy under government control through funding. This kind of darkness has not been recorded in the world so far. Just laugh. [[Laughter]] All information emissions are reduced to... Mr. President, I think you should start and give them public warnings.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u588	It wasn't an excessive reaction. They thought it was funny, please, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u589	All information emissions are reduced to DOS monologues and praises, without the possibility of denial or presentation of a different opinion. The possibilities for watching TV programs can be reported, and the objections are moving in the direction of ambiguity, as well as how much State TV will finance, a portable network, which is in catastrophic condition after the bombing of your brothers, Amerians. As far as the south of Serbia is concerned, the situation is even more difficult. Of the seven municipalities in the county, the only municipality of Vranje has three RTS programs and all other one or two programmes. Two municipalities, both the Shop and Bosilegrad, have no TV signal. I think all municipalities in this country should be covered by state television. Whether the bill promoter can, and within what time, solve this, especially to cover the rural areas with a TV signal, because in the hills, it is almost the only contact they have with the outside world. As far as editorial policy is concerned, in this New Television of Serbia, Milorad Komrakov would not have made it to the trainee's place in making a TV one-brainer. Had Milosevic had such media control and such editors, he would not have been removed for another 50 years. I'm not even asking you to give us more space, ie. I'm saying that the more credible it is that you do, and the rest of you won't even need a campaign, you won't be in the next election. Just let them show you in the right light. This is for you, Mr. Minister, if the budget is financed through taxes, taxes and contributions from all citizens, and television will be financed from the budget. We're back on the fact that someone, past their will, is going to finance TV Serbia, and there's no TV camera. Right? Ambassador Luna, I apologize to SPO, since he asked me to mention it, if it weren't for the SPO, I apologize to SPO, the SPO would never have discussed it like that, said there wasn't enough equipment, and just before the RTS burning, new equipment was obtained, which was loaded in trucks before the incineration and transported in an unknown direction. The value of that equipment is millions of marks, and if you don't know whose trucks it's loaded in, there are pictures with license plates and company inscriptions. The company's inscriptions are on the trucks, which are loaded with these expensive equipment. We'll tell the D.A. if you take the case, we'll give him the file. If you don't know whose trucks are, ask Mr. Covic, he knows everything, as the leading communal of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u590	The word is made by MP Goran Vesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u591	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda, we have a law that abolishs the tax which is financed by RTS. Unfortunately, everything's being talked about, but it's not talking about it. The tax was introduced years ago, to allegedly ensure RTS financing, for the simple reason that citizens did not want, most citizens, to pay for such television. It was a way for the former government to force all citizens to pay for television, which they mostly didn't trust, which showed public opinion research. There have been paradoxical situations, that people who have more electric numbers pay taxes, that people pay taxes even though they have electric numbers in the stables, I'll remind you, there was one contribution to studio B, where a peasant from the area of Požrevec couldn't for a year and a few days ensure that he didn't pay a TV fee on an electric number that was in his piglet. And he never made it, he secured it after that contribution came out on TV. A lot of others didn't do it. Therefore, for the simple reason, people were forced to pay for what they did not have. Now, what was that tax used -- when that tax was collected, it was supposed to be used to develop RTS, of course. No, it wasn't used to develop RTS, it was used only to strengthen the propaganda machinery of the former government. That tax was used to share flats in RTS. This is how people, such as Memorial Jovic, Dragoljub Milanovic, journalists who came on TV and after six months received apartments, received apartments as deficits, which TV paid for by the citizens of Serbia. Well, that's the point. Serbia's citizens will not pay flats on Serbian television to listeners of the former government. That was the reason. How much RTS was recording drama from that tax, what she did with the drama program, what she did with the school program, what she did with the cultural program -- nothing. The only thing she did was the information program, the daily at 7:30, the diary supplement, the diary supplement, special shows, etc., so we had a special camera to record President Milosevic and Mira Markovic, of course. Therefore, by abolishing this DOS tax, it fulfills its pre-election promise to citizens, and the pre-election promise to citizens is that what is not necessary will not be paid. RTS is currently state-owned. What will be its status, we will see after the adoption of a new law on television, it may become public, it may be some combination between public and state, but we will never again allow citizens of Serbia to be forced to buy apartments to Dragoljub Milanovic, Monumenti Jovic, and other listeners to Slobodan Milosevic, in return to receive lies. Therefore, it is necessary to abolish this law and therefore, the citizens of Serbia will be freed from at least because they do not have to pay what they simply do not want. As RTS will finance, don't worry about it. Well, the government will worry about that, we'll find a way to finance RTS, so don't you think about how we're going to finance television. The state will fund what it thinks, but we will not take away from the people as you did.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u592	He has the word National MP Tomislav Nikolic (replic).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u593	This is where the charges were made against everyone who was once in power. The Serbian Radical Party was in the government of the Republic of Serbia. It has been said that we've hijacked a television subscription and used it for various purposes, so I ask you to give me the right to a replica. You see, Mr. Vesic, you object to the right that there was a camera that followed only Slobodan Milosevic. Now there are cameras and journalists who follow only Vojislav Kostunica. Petar Lazovic has returned from retirement to follow Vojislav Kostunica. But you won't tell the MPs that one camera followed only you, your arrival from Montenegro at the Surcin airport, celebrated in a special RTS show -- is back in Serbia. And it's funded from the electricity tax. I'm terribly worried about your ignorance. RTS is a public company, now RTS is a public company, you don't know that, one more thing, whether it's called Milanovic, or the Church, whether the editor-in-chief is called one way or another, whether it's SPS or DOS, that difference can't be felt just by name. So please, do something to make us feel that something has changed. Turns out, the socialists got off, rode Murt. Do something to make me, as a Serbian citizen, convinced that something on that television has changed. If someone was exiled from the state media, it's the SRS. And the empirical data suggests that 99% of the time planned for the December campaign was dedicated to DOS. If someone is now threatened by not being on the media at all, it's the SRS. Do something to get the opposition's voice heard at least once a week on state television and I'll say something has changed. This is not a sign that RTS has changed. I'm sorry that in such a schedule of ministerial posts without portfolios, the finance minister explains the changes to the Radio Television Act. I warned you, it wasn't just a tax radio, I warned you that by not being the intended Minister of Information, that we were losing something very important and something very important. You didn't want to accept it, and how am I supposed to explain to Minister Djelic how the RTS situation was when a man landed in Serbia the other day?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u594	Time, Mr. Nikolic, this is a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u595	I've been listening for a few days, whenever the former government is mentioned, as radicals say -- we didn't participate, we didn't hire anyone, we didn't order anyone, like you weren't sitting in that power. You had your ministers in the government, you ruled along with the Socialists, and it's not fair for everything to fall on them. It's not fair because you ruled together and the worst laws in the country are your laws. There's the University Act, the Information Act, etc. The fact that no one asked you in that government and you were only serving to vote, that's your problem, and now you explain to the citizens of Serbia why you were giving legitimacy to such a government. That, Mr. Nikolic, does not exempt you from objective responsibility, and you were in that government and you were vice president. Secondly, Serbian citizens could not live on three famous vice presidents -- Bojic, Seselj and Ratko Markovic. They've explained everything and it doesn't matter, but you're guilty of it, maybe less, but you're guilty because you let such a power survive. You can't argue with that. As far as the camera is concerned, the fact is that the cameras aren't invested, but we've heard an MP right here say, why isn't there a film camera in TV? Why don't you buy a movie camera for all these years? There are no cameras tracking any state official, counting on the president of Yugoslavia, and I am responsible for saying that. And finally, according to RTS data, the former ruling party, frankly speaking, you are least involved, the former ruling party, first JUL, then the SRS, then the SRS, owes about 138 million dinars at the moment to RTS. That's almost half of what's collected in a month. Don't talk and take care of the citizens of Serbia. You took away their money, you didn't pay for television and for the sake of justice and truth, when you talk about how much you were represented in the campaign, tell the citizens of Serbia that for the first time in this campaign that took place in December all parliamentary parties had the right to free time to broadcast videos. You didn't pay for a single video, not because you didn't want to, but because you had the right to broadcast free videos. When did the Socialists let you do that? You had nine dates a day, Mr. Nikolic, nine dates a day times 30 seconds and that free broadcast to ensure equality.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u596	Mr. Vesic, it wasn't you who gave us those appointments, but we had a deal for all the participants in the election. It's not your fault, but we've sat down all those who participate in the election and agreed on how many will be presented. Why are you now loading the Serbian Radical Foreigner with debts charged by the SPS? You don't really think the SRS owes that 40 million to RTS, do you? For seven days following the presidential campaign, presidential candidate Tomislav Nikolic was charged with 40 million per minute in the diary, but on the side of it. You didn't get me right. I have no regrets at all that we were in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Government, and I don't want to run away from it and I'm not ashamed of it. If you can justify that in Serbia's interest you negotiate with terrorists and make out with Solana, why not allow the political parties from whom Serbia was dependent, you then did not depend on anything, you helped Milo Djukanovic break up at that time, why not allow the united political parties to at a time when Serbia was terribly threatened and when it was to be defended? I'm not ashamed of any of the moves that radicals have made in the government, even though we're going to have agendas and moves that you don't think are good at. I don't wash myself out for a pay phone from being in the government, but I want to distinguish the guilt, what is who doing, who could do it? You won't be able to from the Democratic Party in this coalition government to do everything you want and what your program is. That's not why I'm calling you, which is why you can't accomplish everything. It is very important to achieve something, and our goal was to pass the Law on the University, the Law on Public Information... and we have achieved our goal. [[Laughter in O.R.]] We had our turn in public information and had our turn at universities. You will now pass another law, and we will try to criticize it, and if it is not good, but what, life goes on. Don't just represent the government here and say - we give you, we give you, the power gives you. You don't give anything, because that's what the Socialists thought, so they disappeared from power, so don't think you're going to be long. Radicals will last.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u597	The word is made by the MP Dragan Sutanovac, and then by the MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u598	Dear People's MPs, I am very sorry that Mr. Seselj is not here today, but is kissing Saddam Hussein's shoulder, otherwise he would be much better and more competent to discuss than you, Mr. Nikolic. I'm interested in one thing, is there a national MP here who's been elected to the Serbian Parliament, and his voters will say it's a good thing he didn't vote for the fee to be abolished? Have you, gentlemen of the SPS, given your electoral body the mandate to vote here today against the cancellation of the fee? (Pavlovic, from the place: This is our problem, not yours. ) You have a lot of problems, Mr. Pavlovic, but it is among other things. Today, the issue of abolishing the tax on numbers, which is not clear, will be brought today and not in the interest of the MPs, but in the interest of the Radio Television of Serbia. I'm very sorry that this stage is used to divulge the subject for hours, because ten hours they talk about this topic of gentlemen from the Radical Party, whether electromechanists or tourists know they're talking about the Law on Amnesty, the Law on Television, the Law on the Judiciary, all possible laws know the same thing to talk about. Do you answer the word so many times at the Central Homeland Authority, or whatever it's called, do you answer? You don't answer, because you keep your mouth shut, and here you're strangling us, not us, it's not hard for us, it's for the rest of us. Gentlemen, for the sake of Serbian citizens, I must say that every meeting of the Assembly costs more than 150,000 dinars. [[Applause in the O.R.]] I understand that MPs who come to the meeting want to do their 300 dinar daily, but if it ended in one day, they would save that money for the citizens of Serbia. If you come to Belgrade and sleep in a hotel in Belgrade, then you're walking around here, so it's not going to be going out of town, you're here to work. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u599	I've already had the opportunity to, while I'm in opposition, only then were the Socialists, to warn that democracy is expensive, but that no one has the right to deny it. Do not go out for a pay phone and talk about how expensive the meetings of the National Assembly are. It's much more expensive if there's no session and you pass a law that nobody tells you anything about, and it's our duty to only look for what's wrong with the law. It is our duty to speak today and every day, whether it be transmitted or not, we will speak, and if you have nerves, or you do not have them, then walk and return when there is a vote. Something else pains me from your discussion, you're a young man, you may not be able to be my son after years, but you're being raised badly. Don't ever speak of Iraq or the Iraqi people again Yesterday it happened to you, while MP Djura Lazic of Kosovo and Metohija spoke of raping Serbian women and girls, that you laughed and threw away. [[Laughter in O.R.]] I had to go into a harsh conflict with you and ask you to shut up while it's being talked about, and then make as much noise as you want. Let me finish, why shouldn't this pay phone be bad talk about Iraq and the Iraqi people and the Iraqi president? Because it's a country that America has been bombing for ten years. Because it's the state where America killed more than 100,000 children. Because it's the richest country in the world that America can't use its natural resources, just because they're not in America, and only because they're not in American hands, and because Kuwait is part of Iraq. That's what you should know. As Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia, so is the fate of Iraq and Kuwait. So one day someone will resent us if we constantly ask that Kosovo and Metohija be in the hands of Serbia and the Serbian people. So much for the notified and uninformed. One more thing. Ask your Minister of Energy where he will turn for oil, and then you can go ahead and attack those of whom we will soon depend on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u600	Under circumstances, my father worked in Iraq for about six months. I lived off that bread. So I know what working in Iraq means and I respect the Iraqi people. But I remember in the 1990s, which you may not remember when Dr. Vojislav Seselj offered his volunteers services in front of the US Embassy to destroy Iraqi vermin. You may have been a small politician back then, and in the meantime, you grew up. I didn't do politics at the time. When Vuk Draskovic kissed Madeline Albright, I didn't like it. Now Seselj loves Saddam Hussein's shoulder. Will he bring oil?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u601	First, there's one big difference between Madeline Albright and Saddam Hussein. Are you sure she's a woman? I guarantee you Saddam Hussein will never bomb us, and Madeline Albright has bombed us. Now, every political party that lasts for 10 years has a delusion that corrects, doesn't hide or regrets. The SRS had two delusions. One is Iraq, and one is America. We both made amends in our political action, and we made a public apology to Iraq because one member of the current Democratic Party organised demonstrations and offered volunteers to beat up Iraqis without the knowledge of the Serbian Radical Party. That was cleared up in the Federal Assembly. You shouldn't suggest that, Mr. Batic, to the MPs behind this pay phone when it's cleared up in the Federal Assembly. So we apologized to the people of Iraq. You should think about that too. We have an Iraqi destiny, one way or another, and we're gonna need friends in the world. Unfortunately, half of our government is pro-American. They ate American bread, took huge amounts of dollars from America. You, gentlemen of the DOS MPs, don't follow the team. You think a little Serbian. There are no dollars for you. The fact that you're going to defend the interests of only individuals in this government doesn't wash you in my eyes. I know none of you like America, Madeline Albright, or Javier Solana. I know none of you like to be raped by Serbian girls. Then why are you yelling when someone's talking to you about it? A little drink to point to everyone. And if someone's kissing someone's shoulder, it's not a story for here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u602	A member of the government, Mr. Vladan Batic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u603	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on July 15, 1993, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Radio-Television Act, which introduced the number tax as a special form of funding for Radio Television. The then Minister of Information, Mr Milivove Pavlovic, said there are two goals for passing the law. One is to improve RTS work. As he was promoted, we all had a chance to see. The second is to do so in a way that is more functional, rational, and fairer than before. Of course, both goals were empty demagogy. In doing so, Mr. Pavlovic said that a model was proposed which was then reportedly used in Greece, where the tax was 7.5 marks. At that moment, only Mr Pavlovic neglected that the average salary in Greece was over 1,500 marks at the time, and that we were at the threshold of galloping inflation, and that very soon afterwards, the average salary in Serbia was 7.5 marks. With circumstances, for this same speaker, as an MP, I then opposed the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radio Television, or the introduction of a fee on a number. Just for these reasons Mr Djelic mentioned today. It's something that's both unnatural and unfair. It is a law which was immediately in collegiate with Article 12(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and with the provision of Article 34(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It was a law that was immediately in collegiate with the Law on Liaison, which provides for the principle of mutual giving. You can buy something and pay for it. But no one can force you to sell anything, if you won't. It is a fundamental principle in the Law on Liabilities. Finally, he was in collegiate with the then applicable Electricity Act, with a member of the 27th Law on Electricity. So this only corrects one of the many legal illogicalities, and these two reasons that are mentioned, that it's unnatural and unfair, obviously exist to date, for the simple reason that there are people who don't have TV receivers, who can't, for these or those reasons, follow the TV program or they won't follow the program, and there are five TV receivers, satellite antennas, and who knows everything. Now, putting on both and each other and imposing their obligation to pay the same fee on the number, or TV subscription, really sounds absolutely illogical. Here, unfortunately, we're listening again to what was heard yesterday. They also surrender to the suspension of the fee on the count, the stories of patriots and traitors, Madeline Albright and Javier Solana. Gentlemen, let's not make this all the time. By chance, during NATO intervention, this minister was all three months in his home, with his children, each day writing criminal charges, unlike you, against NATO air commanders, who bombed both civilian targets and committed war crimes. By chance, this minister filed, unlike you, criminal charges against Adem Dematici and Hashim Thaci, but then the prosecutors did not respond. I'd like to appeal that we're really focusing on abolishing the fee on the count. Secondly, a congregation speaker can be used to score political points, but they cannot be obtained by claiming that something is wrong, and then by voting for what is wrong. There was no such thing as parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u604	The word is Alexander Radosavljevic, a Messenger of the people, and then a Messenger of the people Neda Arnerić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u605	Ladies and gentlemen, before I say anything about the electricity bill we're talking about today, we have to say who brought that tax and who is the creator of that tax? Serbian Radical Party. They're the ones who forced the citizens into big bills anyway for spent electricity. In Kragujevac alone, for example, gentlemen here are called to Kragujevac, and they have no ties with Kragujevac, especially the deputy head of the parliamentary group, who lives in Belgrade, and otherwise he was Deputy Prime Minister, and he has no idea of Kragujevac, also a former minister and communist who also has nothing to do with Kragujevac, otherwise he is the chairman of the City Committee of the SPS. Simply, in this part, those with the Kragujevci do not have connections, but the burden of 20 million dinars on the citizens of Kragujevac only on the spent tax, so-called, on the electric number, is sufficient to indicate that this tax must be removed. That she is nothing but dragging her hands into citizens' pockets through the various ways the previous government has been called upon. What else, when someone tells us about our television, what our editors are, does it have objectivity, does it not have objectivity, what objectivity the previous team is talking about? What objectivity was that? What economics was there, what's going on on RTS? Where's your TV director, and why is he in court today? Why is Mr Milanovic in court today? Why, that's what you have to answer to the citizens. Which is why the RTS Union has rebelled against apartments, loans, salaries, payrolls, that's the problem with foreign exchange records, salaries of various kinds, on a variety of grounds, and there are no employees anywhere. Just one thing to say, gentlemen and our stutters better be editors than your liars and con men.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u606	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I really had no intention of taking part in considering this item of the agenda, so let it not be understood that I am talking about this agenda, because I just want to talk about a strange phenomenon of one of my own, that young people, with nothing caused, are performing this acutely, and now I don't know whether it's the result of their nature, whether it's the result of their education or whether it's the need for personal exposure. From this pay phone, as you know, I didn't mention anyone, and especially a young gentleman, because if I wanted to, I don't know what I could talk about him, I don't know what he's relevant for me to deal with. Whether or not I have anything to do with the Kragujevac is likely to judge those who are Kragujevci. He's just one of them. So, you should hear others, and what I do and which party I'm president, it's famous. So these are notorally familiar things and they shouldn't be brought out here. I would really like this parliament to be a parliament in which things will be spoken from different views, from different angles, all because of the best solution. I never, nor would I use this pay phone to provoke, and even less to ask some unsuspecting questions, which have nothing to do with it, and probably to the one who asked them are not clear why he did it, etc., unless, if there may be no complex, and if there is, I can't treat it, others are in charge of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u607	There's an animal world, among the deer, a custom somewhere before the end of winter, a real deer's horns fall off, and the young snorkels then use the opportunity to spread out the real ones with bits of horns until new horns arrive, and these little ones think they've become big and strong. The Democratic Party's MP thinks his small attributes, both politicians and Kragujevcans, can, after all, be so large that they face the MPs and the Serbian Radical Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia, which are currently in the replacement phase, and will soon be stronger than you again. Young sir, since you dare say I have nothing to do with Kragujevac, and you know very well that everything in Kragujevac is mine except my apartment and my work in Belgrade. Here, Batic says I'm going back, he knows everything. Ma'am, calm down. You're missing something in your life. I'm just asking you, young sir, where you've been employed so far in Kragujevac, what you've done and how much you've contributed to Kragujevac, and then I'm going to go out and tell you how much Mr. Tomovic has contributed to Kragujevac, and I'm not even going to mention myself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u608	The word has a folk MP Neda Arneric, and the next is MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u609	Dear President, honourable MPs, after a long debate with his parliamentary group chief, Cedomir Jovanovic, I have been given permission to stand for this pay phone, and since the gentleman who is with me on the Committee of Culture has said for a moment that he would like to hear as many different thoughts, visions, as he said, I would just like to tell you, my view of the abolition of the law which three percent of the electricity bill will leave to the citizens in his pocket. All these measures we're taking these days, amendments to existing laws, changes to existing laws, we've had to take urgent action to bring and vote them out in order to at least temporarily stop theft and violence in the financial sense above all our citizens. About the budget, don't worry about future laws, we'll talk about it as much more if God knows we'll hang out for another four years, so I have confidence in our government, and I know that television will take more care of it than it's ever been, because as a man who's worked a lot on TV, I can claim with certainty and a 100% guarantee that three percent who have left for television and the budget of domestic cinema have not been used for these purposes. We are going to set up a survey committee these days to investigate the work of Serbian Radio Television, primarily in the editorial sense of work for the past 10 years, because I think they may be the biggest culprits, whom I, as an individual, will never forgive, the people who have run RTS's policy. I don't want to talk about financials, because just so you know, people's fees on television haven't been received in three or four years. It was known when you were invited to work for that television to work for free and for glory, but it didn't touch me much, so I didn't advertise in public because I've been banned from TV since 1996, when I started thinking a little more actively about the political problems of the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u610	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic, and the next is Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u611	Dear MPs, I'd like to remind the previous speaker that we're making one mistake here. It's not about breaking the law at all, because the law remains valid, it's only about the part of the law. I must say, this law has already been abolished. Do you know how it was lifted? It was abolished the moment the Vojvodina Assembly decided to take down the RTS sign and set up its sign and an absolute public enterprise, established by the Serbian Government under the law, exempt from the work of editorial policy and finance in that part of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, this law is already lacking, and it could also be said that it does not exist because it does not control the overall performance of its function. It's already become a mere fee. Don't think we're defending the tax. We're talking about something else. I'm going to be very specific about just what it says in this law. You've used three terms here in an explanation, and these are the following terms: indifference, unfair and unnatural. That's how you tried to court the people and tell them how you'd take care of the people. That was said here by the minister. That's absolutely not true. Secondly, you're making another mistake, that it can't be financed from the current reserve, which makes up 210 million, but only from the constant, that's two differences again. These 210 million are not enough for a month to finance Serbia's TV with 8,000 employees. Now let me talk about the other part. When you say you're taking care of the people, the minister says you'll finance it from the budget, so he'll have to pay the people again. The people will have to pay another thing, they'll have to pay the $400m worth of NATO damage, you won't ask for compensation for the RTS that's been destroyed. You're talking about the CEO, how he knew when she was going to be bombed, and you should have read this morning's statement by Carla Del Ponte, who says she doesn't know either, but someone whispered it to her and told her that we knew when we were going to be bombed. What? Tell me, would you like to talk to me? Tell me your name, I'll call you out here. No, you're classic rallyers here, and I'm talking about the law. Don't, let it go. Furthermore, besides the fact that these funds are insufficient to finance RTS, when we say that we will finance from the budget, I am interested in livingly: how will the damage be compensated, besides this war, and that is the DOS, which you have left as a monument to all Belgraders, to watch, all the missing and stolen equipment, so how do you plan to pay compensation to the people who have been harassed, shammed and lynched? So here we are seriously asking the question of the application of this law. I'm very much on the subject, believe me, when I'm talking about law enforcement and the means to fund it. We don't mind that this tax is lifted, but for the reasons I've been talking about, it means that this law already doesn't apply, and these parts are in themselves irrelevant and immaterial, so if we finance from the current reserve, which is 210 million, we don't have sources. So you have to violate the temporary decision to finance the budget you've made...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u612	Mr. Tomic, I'm warning you in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u613	I've only been over 13 seconds, believe me, I've been following very closely when you're letting these young guys out of the picture at all, and then they're talking for two or three minutes more. It doesn't matter. It's important that you turn this into a spithole. Therefore, you are far from caring for this people. Please don't just talk about taking care of the people here, but the skin from their backs shoots. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u614	Thank you. I give the word to the messenger of the people, Rodoljub Sabic, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u615	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this time that we have spent discussing the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law on RTS, it would be said that we have opened a debate on amendments to the Constitution, or at least to discuss some kind of law of the type of code, with 200 members. I must remind you that we are discussing a law that has two members, whose only order was to eliminate one institute from Serbia's legal system, for which we are all perfectly clear that it is hated by the people. Elimination of the tax on electric numbers, as a rule, in the case of citizens, is causing this. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure that when we vote on this bill, we'll probably repeat that schizophrenic situation yesterday, when 50 people here were unwittingly criticising the government over the Amnesty Act, and then only a handful of people voted against it. So I wouldn't answer for a word, because everything is perfectly clear. It is clear that we will lift that tax, it is clear that the vast majority, larger than DOS's number of MPs, will vote for it and it is clear that the government's obligation to secure the financing of television remains. Nothing is disputed and there are no questions to discuss. However, we've drawn so much argument that it's simply amazing. I have to say, gentlemen, if perhaps in some context with an electric number you can bring a story of Mr. Nikolic's easy observation of deer antlers or if you can put anything in that same context that is related to Javier Solana, I don't already know who, then I don't understand. Okay, maybe some things can be agreed on, and maybe it's untasteful, but here's the thing, so that our representatives so-called. Until yesterday, the government of the United States is talking about some sort of editorial policy on RTS. Gentlemen, one JUL-type political plankton has been allowed more time on that RTS than the 18 DOS parties have spent. Who gave it to him? I guess his partners from the Government of National Unity. I guess people who sat on the board of directors of RTS. Well, if it's tasteless to listen, there's something that's unacceptable to listen to. It seems to me that the deputy head of the SPS parliamentary group spoke first of the damage done on television in NATO aggression, and then allowed himself to say that further damage was caused on October 5th. That, gentlemen, can't be heard without a reaction. It's tasteless, it's top-notch cynicism. On the day NATO did what it did, 16 people were killed. On October 5th, no single man was killed. It's a huge difference, gentlemen, and such cynicism is not allowed. If there may be some insults here, no one has the right to insult the families of those 16 people. Gentlemen, I urge you to finish harassing this and the citizens who are watching us and that this law, which we will certainly adopt, and you will see which most of us, finally and adopt, so that we can move on to more important things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u616	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to remind everyone in this room that we are sitting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, if there were 250 MPs with the exact same rights and it would be good to have a wish for a Bolshevik totalitarianism, which is present in this room, a desire not to hear a different opinion, but to slowly descend from a much higher level and to allow them to have the right, that every MP in this hall, has a point on the agenda to express his opinion. If we want to talk about a point, then let's say that this abolishing of RTS electricity tax is a direct marketing move by DOS authorities, because there is not a single stupid citizen in this country who is not clear that he will immediately follow the tax on fabrics, milk tax, the tax on diamonds, the tax on whiskey, from which citizens will again, paying these things, fill the budget to finance from the budget, but also now the DOS government, the Radio Television of Serbia. Now, that's the thing, my dear gentlemen. At least we had an idea of independence and hope that it was possible to move away a new, free, free, burned TV from DOS authorities. And now we realize that by introducing new taxis, which citizens who do not pay on the road will pay on the road, they will be placed in a position that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, financing that television, directly dictates editorial policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u617	Here you go, replica. No one mentioned you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u618	By reason of my discussion, Mr. Ivkovic, you mentioned some kind of Bolshevik totalitarianism. I don't know who he's... (Ivkovic, from the scene: you probably recognized each other.) Yes, yes, of course I recognized myself. Of course I recognized myself. You know how. You taught us to identify ourselves by those terms, you know. But, my Mr. Ivkovic, I was talking about one thing. I was saying that the SPS MP identified and said that more damage was done on October 5th than killing 16 people committed in the NATO attack. And there's another scarier thing I didn't want to say, but here's what I'm going to say. There is, Mr. Ivkovic, a reasonable doubt that this unidentified NATO pilot, who committed this multiple murder, also had accomplices. There is a reasonable doubt that someone knew when this attack would be carried out and there is a reasonable doubt that someone left 16 people to die. And, as long as that suspicion points to someone who's a high-ranking official of your party, it's untasteful to use such arguments. That's why I called in my word, Mr. Ivkovic, not to talk about the topics you used in the story.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u619	Dear Madam or Madam Chairman, you gave your word to an MP who was not mentioned at all during my discussion. Unless it is identified as belonging to Bolshevik totalitarianism, and I must tell you, according to your wish, a very expressed desire to repeal the decisions that have been made under the applicable law, i.e. That you have abolished the rights which you have acquired, that is what you paint. I want to point out the following. Is there a Belgrade citizen who, when he thinks about a plane carrying a killer at a rate greater than the sound of Belgrade City, that only one micron is wrong, by the pilot's movement, that bomb killer takes to a sleeping salter 300-400 meters from RTS, my people, my killer says he told someone he's going to kill and you're now persecuting whoever the killer says he's going to kill and not persecuting the killer. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Ivkovic tried to talk about the work of our people, about our voters, about the citizens of this country as stupid. I don't know what part Mr. Ivkovic was referring to, but it would be good to make a statement about it and discuss it once. I intend to sit in a congregation where the MPs will call a part of the people stupid or similar expressions. If Mr. Ivkovic thinks he's acting like one, then he's missed a place and he's gonna have to go to a place where words like that are used and people are told that way. I am convinced that the people, voters, citizens of this country, recognized in Mr. Ivkovic the master of yesterday who had big horns, and what was so plastically and beautifully spoken about by the deputy head of the Serbian Radical BAS Party's parliamentary group. You, Mr. Ivkovic and similar to you, no longer have those horns and that's admitted by the gentleman sitting here in the third row. So, you lost your horns. Are you aware that you no longer have these horns and that you no longer have the opportunity to treat the people as horns... This last word, you add it yourself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u621	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for the sake of honesty, I look you all in the eye, you who applauded, did I say that the citizens of Serbia are stupid? Did I say, say it. I didn't. I said that the citizens of Serbia are not stupid and it is clear to them - if they were to get paid directly, that the government of the Republic of Serbia will charge them through the tax on fabric, on cigarettes, on milk, on the chair, on the table, but the situation that we are going to go out for is changing significantly, because now it becomes clear - about the independent, free TV speech is not available. Because the landlady's money numbers are sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and now another disgrace to this country and to this people. The gentleman whose name I'm not going to say, who was handled by the leading DOS, was in this country and left. And the man whose place of work was targeted was put in custody for 30 days. Another great shame for this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u622	I didn't hear you mention it, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u623	You'll have to listen more carefully, ma'am. The MP mentioned the deputy president of the Serbian Radical BAAS Group. Now, let me teach you something today. BAAS in Arabic means democratic. But we should not be called the Serbian Radical Democratic Party because we are Democrats by definition. About whether one of my MPs is going to come out for this pay phone and if he's out, I find out by being in the O.R. or by seeing it on television. And some parties calling themselves democratic, their MPs must long convince the head of the parliamentary group to get permission to go out for a pay phone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u624	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u625	I'm sorry, I really recognized myself, so let me explain to you that I thought you had a little bit more sense for adjudications, jokes and ghosts. If you'd realized it was just one lovely joke at the expense of... (some MPs laugh and earn -.... The theatre) this is in a way and theater, only the content is very, very, very serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u626	The word is from the People's MP Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u627	Dear colleagues, after many media announcements that RTS will lay new groundwork, I expected the essence of the announced changes to be contained in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the RTS Act. Instead, all the changes consisted only of eradicating four members of the existing law, and those which determined the source of financing for production, transmission, broadcasting of programmes, aimed at informing the population and technical and technological development. Part of the funding, according to the current law, was directed to produce a home film, and part of the work of public enterprises, carried out by regional and local radio, was financed from the fee and for the transfer of a joint programme of interest to the Republic. This is not working now, and the programme has been implemented through a system of Serbia's joint radio stations. Part of the electricity tax was intended for the maintenance of transmission and transmission devices. I think it's okay to cancel the fee on the count, and what's wrong is that it's not precise what amount of TV funding will be provided for in the Republic of Serbia's budget and for what purposes. This is irresponsible to national radio television, according to employees in the media house, who, by their profit level, are also among the weaker paid in their brand, and compared to employees in other systems of interest for the Republic of Serbia, too. Serbia's citizens remain 3% of the tax, but that's why Serbian citizens, through other taxes, obligations, gatherings, are being taken in a different way. Why can't RTS employees be allowed to provide a part of the funds through marketing, and they do it extremely well. During NATO bombings, RTS suffered major material damage on its facilities, as well as on transmission and emission systems. According to some estimates, the total damage is about $400m. These devices and transmission systems have not yet been remedied, which requires large financial resources. Therefore, it is stated in the text that this fee in its nature is a compensation for the provided possibility of using and monitoring these programmes through the appropriate receivers, which stands out as one of the reasons for the law being passed, because it is not the fault of RTS and employees in this system. After October 5th last year, RTS also lost a newly renovated building on Takovska Street, where it produced and broadcast a TV programme for Belgrade. A part of Pristina Radio - Television, in similar conditions, broadcasts from study in Prokuplje, and a small number of workers are engaged in newly established RTS correspondence in Zvecan, but apparently, their fate is uncertain because UNMIK does not want to give permission to work for the current Zvecan correspondence because it is in front of Television Serbia. Given the importance of national radio and television and the need to revitalise RTS, many officials often use these days terms - public service etc. So I would like to ask the minister - what is meant by that and what is the wording? Also, these days, the public is being launched and the story is that a bankruptcy should be introduced into RTS, as well as the story that these days will be. by the end of the year, there are 200,000 jobless workers left in Serbia. Since by October 5th, RTS was called the Red Bastille, I wonder how many RTS workers are going to be out of a job this year. Here, it was said by the MPs, that everyone would be out of a job. Minister Djelic pointed out positive examples of the work of other televisions in the world in the opening exhibition and cited the example of England, in which, according to him, it is extremely objective. So why don't you let RTS employees do their own job, not part of their program work by other agencies, which is what we heard here today. The citizens, I am convinced, will be pleased that they will have 3% of the tax left, for two reasons -- which in their personal budget will have those 3%, and others, which their conscience will now be calm, because there will be no direct financials over this fee, which is being abolished today, the Satanization of their own people, the individual personalities of this country, the organization of the hickeys on people and organized media persecution. Finally, I would like to address those responsible in RTS and to address those responsible in the government of the Republic of Serbia, with a request, on behalf of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, with a request from Serbs in front of Kosovo's Mitrovica, to ensure the clarity and visibility of the RTS programme in Kosovo and Metohija. In this way, Serbs in the southern Serbian province would be related to their queen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u628	The word is by MP Zoran Micovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u629	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, what is the essence of our stay here in the Assembly -- whether we listen to throws and stories all day long that don't serve anything, or we'll definitely start working here to solve the problems that the people have chosen us for. First of all, we need to know what our goal is here today. The aim of this assembly is to select quality laws. The law we are talking about today must be passed as the people expect us to. That's the darkness. We're not interested in other stories here. When it comes to this law, which we're talking about now, of course, I'm talking about television and one incorrect move that was taken a few years ago, about introducing a fee to a number, and not repeating, what is the goal of today's debate, which is that the quality and rationality of television is being run tomorrow. This government has this assignment. We're here to help them. Are we going to vote today or not, and it's clear to everyone, you all said in your speech that you would vote. You did it yesterday, but no one tried to make today's work rational here or yesterday's. And of course, ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you something else, there was no shame between the two wars, as Jovan Ducic said, Croatian politicians behave like that, not because they were brave, but because they were cowards, so they did their political struggle and their actions in the mud and mud, and they lured others into it with them, so they said, "Okay, we're the same." We don't want that, and the fact that people here want to make order, not to appear at every point, to avoid a replica, it's to a political culture. That's why the people voted us. That should be clear to everyone, that this pay phone is not being told maximum nonsense, which may harm this people tomorrow. When I say that, first of all, I'm talking about yesterday's session that passed in just three or four repeated words, which is rape, Solana and bombing plutonium, uranium, etc. Please, gentlemen, to be clear, we haven't had a chance to get acquainted with the international community's clear position on this or domestic eminent experts, which has been bombed. I'm saying this for the next time -- our country sees a great opportunity in exporting agricultural products. If we ourselves today "snatched a noose" and the claim that our country is bombarded with radioactive isotopes, or those who are dangerous, gentlemen, we will do ourselves a bear service and we will not do our own products, primarily raspberries and other strawberry fruits, where we expect very rational revenues this year, to be able to export. Of course, as far as this law is concerned, I support the government's proposal and I hope that, as in all other segments for which they are in charge, they will find a rational solution and that the suspension of the fee on the issue will not deprive Television of its income. The way the funds will be collected already exists, it just needs to be rationally used to use those flows that went past the budget, which is tobacco, whiskey and other products, strategically for this country in terms of tax collection, to be collected in the right cash register and to be paid out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u630	The word is by MP Milos Nesovic. (The president addresses Serbian Radical Party MPs: Highlighting the question of quorum? We'll determine the quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to place their cards in the MPs' units to determine the quorum. There's order, but bring it in yourself. It's a job if it's necessary. He has to. He can do it. (Toma Nikolic from the site: The municipal enterprise has a turn. This isn't a utility company, Mr. Nikolic. Hold on, I mean everything in the O.R., so the work will be more effective. I ask you to invite the MPs into the O.R. so we can continue our work. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: It is obvious that you are not having a good session. Gentlemen, we've been working 10 hours and 20 minutes and I guess so much strength, intellectually and physically, you have that we can work continuously for three hours. I really don't understand your insistence on having lunch the way your stomach used to last year, which is at 13.00 hours. Please continue to work until the end of this point, there are three other registered speakers, and then we will have a break and continue, in my confidence, by midnight to finish with the agenda points. My confidence is important, and the MPs will declare that belief by voting. Dragoljub Stamenkovic, from where: Where are your MPs, in the pub? These are not my MPs, and if you had less distractions, you would have worked faster. I figure we've got a quorum and we can keep working.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u631	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the law on television is a very serious matter, a serious law, and television is a serious institution. I think that's where we're supposed to be having a debate. I am convinced that there is no MP in this room who does not want to find the best solution for our television to be modern, modern and efficient television, to have anything to watch on that television in our free time, and to free our citizens or to burden them so much that what they can see and watch on television, that they do not regret, either through taxes or certain taxes to pay. This is where you ask each other a question. We received a proposal to abolish the tax, and we did not get a proposal and see in the budget how much Serbian citizens are now going to cost. I have to tell you that I'm in a position to know that our television, I'm not going to talk about editorial policy, about personnel, about equipment, about cameras or emissions technology, but I'm going to tell you that the network of television, I think it costs 70% of what's in the facilities and that it's all ruined during NATO aggression. It is now temporarily done and what has been temporarily done, it must soon be defined to clear the accounts of who should pay it. It's wildly done and wildly used. It costs a lot, and this congregation and television will also have to find a solution to how to resolve it. If we knew exactly how much it cost, then we'd probably know exactly what to do with the 8,000 employees who are on TV and who are there, at least I have that kind of information, and we'd know how many workers are going to be out of a job? I want to tell you, both the Parliament and the Minister, the most well-intentioned to try to change something on television, because it's very ugly, I mean euphoric behavior especially of young ladies there and that courting behavior towards DOS leaders. I beg you, and it irritates the people, they're still young and don't let them do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u632	The People's Messenger Ljubomir Mucic has the word, and then the People's Messenger, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u633	Mr. President, Madam Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before this brief presentation with concrete suggestions, I would like to ask our secretary one question, with a soft smile, to answer - was this question also to be considered by the Finance Committee because these are mostly financial issues? We didn't have it at all at the Finance Committee's session, and I don't think I've ever seen Mr. Secretary before, I'd like to see it, and maybe it's a good thing I haven't seen it, maybe these proposals would already have pulled some amendment from the government. The first thing I'd like to say is that we've all promised, and I've been kind of, new funding for television and lifting the fee on the count. Only this solution has not solved the biggest problem, and the biggest problem is in nursing households and in those who paid only a fee on the count. I suggest that this assembly draws the conclusion that all persons who have a calculated interest in the unpaid fee for the numbers, the release of the payment and the fees and the amount of the interest that you make on this basis. It means that by this decision and by abolishing this fee, only those persons who have paid a fee so far have been favored, that they do not continue to pay it. Whether this is just or unfair, or natural and unnatural, I can only say, and I hope the Minister will agree, that no fiscal obligation, call it tax, tax, contribution or whatever, is unnatural and unfair. I don't know what can only be invented to make it fair and natural. I would only suggest that these arguments that are written really be brief and clear, and to say this is the DOS promise. The promise was to cancel the TV tax, this proposal did it, not to stand - unfairly, because one part of the population that uses electricity owns an electric number. I guess everyone who uses electricity owns an electric counter or steals like some of ours out there, so I don't count here. And yours and ours. That it's natural, it's not natural, and it's just, it's not fair. The only thing our citizen and the taxpayer won't see when he pays taxes on personal income, taxes on agriculture is whether he paid for television or paid salaries to the MPs or the daily fees or in any way. To say that even the youngest who buys chocolate, through sales tax, will certainly participate in paying for the services he has received to watch state television. They probably still believe in her. Next thing you know, everyone has their Chad, I apologize, it doesn't apply to you, everyone has their Chad, who's in charge of editorial politics. I'd just like to point out to this occasion that it's not all as black as it wants to appear and that your superiors are ordering in correspondence. I can't understand that it's more important to one family whose house wasn't built, because she got a bigger house than her salary, to be more important than the school that was built, than 4,000 square meters, for a thousand students in Mionica. At the very end, I said I would be brief, I would like to make up a list of properties, which the municipalities provided to state television and correspondence, which is now withdrawn to Belgrade, for the reason that part of the equipment was taken from central television, or from the other offices. He wasn't burned, he was taken away. I suggest you call a public call and provide one or more seats in Serbia, take the equipment back, because one or two of them who participated in taking the equipment off TV called all the radio mechanics in Valjev to join them to watch. Everyone made sure they were TV monitors and couldn't just watch it based on the antenna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u634	The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u635	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I will try, usually very briefly, not to waste much time. Before that, I would ask the president not to constantly warn us about the quorum, he can see it on the monitor, and also in his ranks, that there are no MPs, and they are always from 80 to 90 in the 176 room. Therefore, I would take advantage of your authority to have more MPs present at any moment in the room. Don't you, comrades, fellow MPs, be angry with us, and we need to be self-critical, and so do you. You have to get a little bit more angry with you, because what you offer needs to be good and quality. You're not offering us a new law, you're not offering us anything, and you're mad at us for having places to criticize you. You in our laws change one sentence, change one word, remain an old law, and you have changes. Make a new law if you have personnel, make a better law. We won't be able to find a lot of problems about it, don't change the thesis here -- socialists and radicals are against taxes, it's not true we're against taxes, but every host has to watch, if it's removed from one side, where they're going to get those funds. Next, don't act like one - we'll do it from the budget. It's not your budget. It's the budget of everyone else, and it's the budget of those who are criticizing you here today. The budget needs to be distributed well, and it's not just about funding television. There's a lot in this country to finance. We're changing the thesis in that part that we're going to lift the tax on television, not to take our citizens' money from our left pocket, but from our right. He won't pay at the gate, but he'll pay at the gate. So it's the same thing. We'll pay again, but by funding from the budget, the boss of television will know. Well, and what we're complaining about today and that we're directing our discussion in that direction that only certain parties use television, it's going to be even further. You, from the ruling party, have promised new television, but citizens say there is nothing to see on new television. Next, be angry because you can't make better changes, be angry with your ministers for not sitting down and not making new quality laws. You can't change without new and quality laws. In the end, I would like to say, since the deputy head of the SPS parliamentary group has been resented for asking for this speaker to pay for the damage to television, I'm asking if it's a bombed television? Why are you worried that someone should pay for the damage they've broken our country, what bombed our TV? Who are we rooting for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u636	Ljubomir Kragovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u637	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you the draft law amending the Radio Television Act, which has only one sentence - a member of this and that one is abolished. It's probably our new minister's contribution to this 250-mark salary. When he has a salary of 100,000 marks, he will likely come to the National Assembly with a concrete proposal for radio television law. In order not to wait, since it will not wait quickly, let it use the bill submitted by the SRS, which is included in the procedure, and, with that law, let it go before the MPs in this parliament and we will adopt the bill, which is highly constructive. Furthermore, you, Mr. Minister, are stressing that you are withdrawing the tax on an electric counter. That's not true. You cancel the television fee that is calculated through an electric counter, and the electricity fee remains. It's a matter of Serbia's Elektroprivreda. You mention an unnatural way of funding, and you're not giving a model as you're going to, in your so-called natural way of funding what it takes for RTS. Then, you gave an example to the BBC. Then you said and stayed alive, that BBS television for the wide layers of our society, you were thinking specifically of us, and I'm going to remind you that this BBS television a while ago was spreading incredible lies about the Serbian people and Serbs in general. Which means you can't say that the BBC serves the wide layers of our society. I guess it's for the wide layers of English society, not Serbian society. Furthermore, here is the problem of how long we've been discussing this law, which in fact has only one or two members, and the minister said that in two weeks it envisions a natural and proper way of funding RTS. Then why didn't we wait two weeks, because this can't be anything that's so urgent and urgent. We could have lifted this TV fee in two weeks. So now we have one debate, and then in two weeks, according to the minister, we're going to have another debate about how we're going to finance RTS. So if anyone's obstructing, then it's Mr. Secretary. Then, Mr. Minister, in your report for the month, you will give us a report on the work of all budgetary users, all funds, all those who use budget funds, and here we are often told that we are talking about something and beyond the topic, and the subject is the Radio-Television Act, and you mention the budgets of all the funds. That's what we'll discuss when it comes to the Budget Law, not especially some of the laws that you think you're proposing. Finally, I would like to talk about editorial policy, which can be scaled from one side to October 5th, and on the other after October 5th. It used to be communist, and now it's uncommunist and there's no difference on television. Serbian radicals will still vote, as they suggested a few months ago, to abolish this subscription.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u638	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u639	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you've heard a lot of debates today about television tax and DOS gentlemen and the legislator of the new law persistently trying to explain that the opposition is to keep the tax from being abolished. That's not true. However, a good part of the opposition, especially the Serbian Radical Party believes that removing this tax is the most ordinary marketing tax of DOS authorities and their alleged concern for the wide layers of citizenship. If it were just marketing, I would only use one example, that Mr. Minister, when he presented the fact that the tax is paid even on electricians that are in the stables, and even a gentleman is constantly catching fireman, yesterday for Bambi, today again for some stables and electricians in Pogorevec. To tell him that I'm from the Fireman, that both my parents are from that neighborhood, that since it's a agricultural area, mine have both a barn and an electrician in it and don't pay a tax on that electrician. It's not paid, because the electricity tax is paid not by the number of electricians, but by one man. So if you have five electricians that are reported neatly, you'll only pay one fee and I can prove it materially, and you prove it to me. That's what I'm talking about. On the other hand, why is that a fake marketing? Fake marketing is because the electricity bill says "tax." Our people don't like taxes and taxes, and since we're already at this Bambi, the Plasma cookie doesn't say how much a TV subscription tax is, it doesn't say how much tax there is, that's what traders know, citizens don't know. It means it's just a simple farce. Mr. Minister may introduce something other than that, for example, some tax on financial transactions, which will have to be paid only by participants in payment and only by them to be familiar with it, and will have to be included in the price of every product sold. So, we'll pay the television subscription through the milk, through the bread, through every possible traffic to be recorded. Just one more thing. Since electricity collection is already announced over 100%, I think this tax should be abolished in any case, because when it comes to these gatherings, people will only pay taxes, and the electricity won't be able to use it, so they won't be able to watch television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u640	We don't have any more registered speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u641	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I was only in the replica to go out for a pay phone, not using my right to be president of the Parliament Group, nor the MP to participate in the discussion. Maybe I'll go over five minutes, but three times I went out for a pay phone. Mr. Minister, I think after this debate it's quite clear that each of us in this room understands that it's a move that needs marketing to do a job for the DOS government, which is to keep the citizens' pre-election promise of DOS to abolish the billing tax. That would be nice, but Serbian citizens are smart and they understand because the government of the Republic of Serbia takes on the obligation of funding, that Serbian citizens will, through some tax on good, whether it was chairs, benches, school tables, do not matter, still pay for that Radio Television of Serbia and it is good to pay for it, because it is good for our country to have national television. It's not good not to tell them. You should tell them - gentlemen, you will pay for it, you will pay not over the numbers, but you will pay by filling the budget of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in some future dedicated position to finance Serbia's Radio Television. We of the opposition clearly don't like it, because in some way, while the electric count was in play, we could play the vision of some independence of the Serbian Radio Television, and at the moment when the director of Serbian Radio-Television and the Serbian Radio-Television began to come to you, Mr. Djelic, and to take the money, that you pay, then... Dear lady, Raka Radovic sat in your seat, don't be reincarnation. So it's clear we're alluding to that, and we have the right for the citizens of Serbia to know, so far they've financed Serbia's Radio Television directly. Serbia's radio television was somewhat independent, but now there's no speech and now it's going to be completely dependent. The CEO of every first knocks at you and says -- give me the salary, give me the equipment, give me $400 million to make up, because this government won't ask for compensation from NATO aggressors, give me 200 million to burn down Serbia's Radio Television. All of you will be asked, and so, if they ask you to do so, it's clear that more than independence is free of speech, that it's a total addiction. But the other thing is, Mr. Djelic, you're a young man, successful in his career. It is clear that we MPs, we would very much like to vote to lift the tax on electric numbers, because it is a marketing good move for Serbian citizens, we all have unanimously decided, but because of employees in Radio TV Serbia and because of the totally undisclosed sources of funding, we will not vote for this law, because the opposition of the government of Serbia implies that you sit down and calculate that we have 8,000 employees, we have destroyed infrastructure by NATO aggressors, we have a burning house by the protesters, we have bad equipment, we have stolen equipment, you collect money over a year, you make a dynamic plan of realisation and before these MPs, all of them are written, come out and say clearly - you are now temporary financing but, we plan in the budget and, by the way, it would be the turn that the first budget came to the agenda, and only then these jokes from the laws on which the government put the amendments more than the MPs themselves, and we are clearly sending to the fact that the people who sent it is a matter that the most important to the national partners in question, because they are not the people who are responsible. The country must have national television, even if it has funded the current government and kept it under control, it must have it, because there must still be a minimum of national interests that the government must also represent together with the opposition in the fight to preserve the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Therefore, for the sake of the national television project, we have the right to doubt, as it has been directly under threat since October 2000. What about the duke's work of Serbian Radio Television? He's gone, looking for full funding, human resources policy. What are we making, three states, two states? National television is an axiom of the survival of the national identity of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. National television must have the source of the funds guaranteed. She doesn't have it under your bill. He's gone because you said he's using the current budget reserve, you didn't calculate what all that current budget reserve should go to and you didn't calculate how much money you needed to fund these employees. We fear the next, after a decision is made in the Assembly to fund the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not to finish the project -- you know 8,000 is employed, we need 2,000, the Second and Third Channel to give some Frances international, and the first channel should remain with 2,000 employees and we have lost the Second and Third Channel, and we have seen what the media campaign and media lies can do and Satanize this people in preparing NATO aggression on this space. Please, as far as we're concerned, there's a great shame going on in this country's premises today. What's just going to be a part of the agenda is already starting to work. Party courts, party judges, mounted political processes, and today, former RTS Director General Milanovic is in custody for 30 days He was put in custody because the killers your leaders are waiting for and they're shaking their hands, and I believe he said he was going to kill, because he trusted Javier Solana, all those who harassed this country that they said they were going to kill. [[Laughter and applause]] Where there's this in any war, that a murderer who attacks a nation announces he's going to kill. Who was told they were going to kill 30 people on the Gredile ravine, who was told they were going to drop tape bombs on Nis? Who'd they tell? How can you not be ashamed? Imagine you pilot, who goes over Belgrade from 1,000 miles an hour, just a micron that's the wrong killer...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u642	The tax is on the agenda, Mr. Ivkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u643	That man's in custody so he doesn't have any influence. Democracy has been dark, Mr. DOS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u644	Here you go, Mr. Secretary's closing statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u645	Mr. President, vice presidents, honourable MPs, first of all I would like to thank you for your questions, ideas and objections, and I take this very seriously, I would like to conclude here very briefly this debate on this proposal. And that, about three questions about this area, because many have said there are a lot of questions. One, funding, and especially this funding that will lead to a new mechanism. That's where I'd like to be precise enough. As you know, in case you vote this, after being published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", it takes effect on the eighth day. That day means the provision ceases to apply, and then we enter into this gap that will last and should not be exaggerated, for a few weeks, one four or five weeks, until the adoption of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which will be presented to you in mid-March, the second half of March, because, as you know, temporary funding measures end on 31 March this year. So, there's no need to overdo it, it's a short period of time. Of course we're in touch with the RTS people and of course they've done the math we're finishing now. Of course we've provided funds from that current reserve, the analytical conto 911900, to pay what is absolutely necessary, so that state television can work. That's the first thing. The other thing, and I want to be precise, is that, since it's one of the speakers, and I think you, ma'am, talked about what interest is and someone else was talking about what to count on, it's obvious that those people who didn't pay the electricity, and because it was tied up, they didn't even pay that tax, they can't be rewarded for not paying the country's commitments. It wouldn't be good for financial discipline, and we all know that we need her and how we need her, so we can put order into this country. However, I remind all the MPs that last week, and you certainly heard about it, by the government's regulation, we ordered companies, public enterprises which were founded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to reduce interest rates that were really very high, due to wild liberalisation of the prices of the outgoing regime. It reached a very high level in October and November, i.e. Of the 27 and 17% and the product of the high-tight interest account, we ordered them to reduce the interest by three times there by October, at September level, to 9.8%. That's usually two times lower for November, so from 17.18% to 9.8%. So that's what people are going to see in new accounts that are already coming to them on February 15th, so in a few days, these days they're going to get it. Finally, to answer that question, which means that in that account, those who paid an advance will not have to pay because they are not legally required. Of course, in the new account, as we have seen, the EPS has decided to make it an advance, so technically one solution will most likely be found, which will also give some advance to something else, which they owe to the state, so that they will not be damaged. So in eight days, if you vote today, they won't have to pay in this way. I'd like to explain a little bit, so funding and how people will pay those interest. That's the first point. The second point, there were plenty of stories about it and important issues such as editorial policy, such as RTS management, as its organisation, as regional aspects, as a technical network, as a coverage of TV signal and not to be longer. These are very important issues, and I would like to repeat the rhythm we have prepared, which we are proposing today and today we are announcing, which is that in two weeks, Deputy Prime Minister Zarko Korac will come up with a concept on all these issues. The public and you will be informed of that, of course. As I have already indicated, as far as funding is concerned, it will be established in the Republic of Serbia's budget, to repeat that, since I have already indicated it. We come from that, and I think that's where we agreed, almost everyone today, and that's for the sake of the country's well-being and for the sake of good editorial policy, our national television should have a dedicated tax vision without coming directly from the budget. Indeed, at that point it will be more difficult to defend something, since we are building laws for some longer periods, I hope. It's important to have a dedicated source for our national television, so that she has some security in that funding. I think a lot of people here agree with that. Finally, there were a lot of questions about what was going on with that money, whether or not he left on purpose, I can say that the control had begun. It started and in a week you'll get a report on it. That control isn't just to be controlled. I think it's a very strong sign for all the people who spend public money, the one that's hard to separate, and especially in this extremely difficult situation where we are, and it's very important to spend it on purpose and to be strictly controlled. However, I will come to you with some other suggestions to resolve this more systematically. We only have four budgetary inspectors for all of our Serbia. It's absolutely amazing for a country of our proportions. Now I've made a bigger team with my colleagues, for those who can do it, and they're working on it very responsiblely. In the end, I want to thank you. I repeat again, and I hope you will vote on this measure. It is the first step towards reforming our national television. I hope that in a few months, in which year we can all be together proud of her. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u646	I'm finishing the initial search. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I put the draft law amending the Radio-Television Act in principle. For 147 against 29, no one abstained, five did not vote, a total of 181 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Does anyone want to talk about the bill, in particular? He doesn't want to. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Radio-Television Act in general. For 146, against 31, no one abstained, everyone voted, a total of 177 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Radio-Television Act. I'm taking a break until 3:45. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please continue to work, and to determine the quorum for work and decision-making, insert your identification cards into the MPs' units (no quorum). Since it is evident that MPs do not carry out their duty, I ask you to count (the president addresses workers from the Office of the Assembly) to determine how many MPs are present in the hall (in the meantime, the electronic system indicates that there is quorum). We have a quorum. Before we move to review the fourth item of the agenda, please listen carefully to the time of the Committee's constitutional sessions (the president reads the information). We move to item 4 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Rights and Obligations of the President of the Republic of Serbia has been adopted by the draft law, which has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments from MP Zoran D. Nikolic. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. I'm opening a principled search. Pursuant to Article 92(1), I suggest that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly limit the duration of exposure to five minutes. (The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u648	Mr. President, I don't think we can move on to this agenda point. The government has informed us that the government's representative on this agenda is Mr. Vladan Batic. Since he's not in the O.R., we can't put this item on the agenda. There is a possibility that you will change the agenda most of the time, to discuss the point, although there is a very narrow choice, since the government does not grant us the presence of these two days, there is a very narrow choice of agenda points that we could discuss, but since there is Mr. Korac, there is some law that perhaps he could defend as a representative of the government. But it really doesn't make sense that a representative of the government doesn't sit in a session even though it's determined to be a representative of the government at that point.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u649	There is no obligation under the Rules of Procedure for the government to be present. Of course, both the Prime Minister and members of the government were invited to this session. I can't inform you of the reasons for Mr Batic's absence, but there's no problem in moving on to this part of the agenda. Do you agree? Do you agree with the explanation that we have no obligation under the Rules of Procedure? We have two vice-presidents of the government who can plead if that's what happens. Please determine the quorum before making a decision to limit the length of the discussion within this item of the agenda. Please insert your cards. I find that we have a quorum for work and decision-making. I ask the MPs to vote on a proposal to limit the duration of the discussion to five minutes. I'm closing the vote. I find that 116 were voted against 38, with no abstentions, not nine, a total of 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. I find we don't have a proposing representative. Do we have an authorised representative of the board who wants a word? No, I don't. ( ) Has anyone excluded the board's opinion? No, it's not. ) Are the presidents of the parliamentary groups looking for a word? Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has no reason to think of this law as a law concerning it. We don't have a former president, but since you are repealing decisions, the laws that have been in force so far, here I am giving you the opportunity to annul the Serbian President's election decision, because it is clear to you that Vojislav Seselj won the elections for the president of Serbia, but has been prevented from being president by election manipulation and theft, and that place is temporary for him, Milan Milutinovic. Well, if you have such a spirit, a democratic spirit, to undo everything that is not in accordance with the law, we may also talk about Vojislav Seselj as president of Serbia. But I still want to point out some provisions of the bill and interpret them, of course, with a desire to be corrected, if I do it wrong. This law does not touch on privileges that, let's be realistic, deserve the one chosen by the people in the direct elections as president of the Republic. And we wouldn't look like a normal country, especially not your Western state ideals, if we treated the former presidents like a shoe mat. The privileges so far resembled those of former presidents in the West, so they do not have a communist mark. What's the point, then, since you haven't yet proposed any normal, important law, but you're just investing in voters, who have already become impatient and seem to be counting and sharing the billions of dollars you've promised yourself, because if there were, by now some law and billions would have shared the budget. If billions have not arrived, why did you lie, are they still in the duty-free zone between Hungary and Yugoslavia, as you said they were waiting for only you to come to power and arrive? What seems to me to be done by this law - I am convinced that it is prepared in co-operation with the West and aims to make Slobodan Milosevic, and later Milan Milutinovic, deprives state security and state security of the facility. That doesn't say it in an explanation, but it's quite clear from the changes to the law so far. So far, the interior minister has been editing and providing conditions for the exercise of former president's right. So, the state was responsible for his safety, and that was clear and written in Article 12, paragraph 2, which, not by chance, was deleted. If you give the former president the right to (quote) "Living Personal Security and Security of Objects by an employee, uninterrupted" - what does that mean? There's no man who can do 24 hours a day, 365 days a year to perform some kind of duty. It would have to be at least four of them, so three of them work eight hours each, and one of them is home and resting. But these are four employees continuously. The law doesn't say that the state in the budget will pay for security, and when it comes to the fact that the interior minister is no longer responsible for security, it means that a civilian, a civilian, continuously engaged by the former president, will take care of his safety. Then what does he need the law for? Only, and that's for sure, if you're not preparing the kidnapping of the former president, or someone else is preparing it, and you're going to be investigating, or you won't be responsible for what happened. In the sincerity of your intentions, you will only convince me if the minister, which means the government, is responsible for the security of the former president, whether you like him or not. In another way, the security of the former president will not be secured, otherwise you will only convince Serbian citizens to commit fraud. You, of course, won't give Milosevic to The Hague, but if his security doesn't work well personally, so someone kidnaps him and transfers him over the Drina, the state won't be to blame, the DOS won't be to blame. And now, given that I have more rights than all of you 178 that I don't like Slobodan Milosevic, because you can only talk about how guilty he is to you, and I can give you evidence of what I'm guilty of, but now, when I see, my dear gentlemen, who is all attacking Slobodan Milosevic, I want to find his phone somewhere, call him, and tell him -- sorry, Milosevic, for all the words I've been telling you, I'm going to have to come up with worse for this new power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u651	There's a word from the MP, Mr. Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u652	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished fellow MPs, respected members of the government, a few words about this law - every civilised society and democratic state, particularly holds a relationship with the holders of the highest state functions, and especially upon termination of state functions. Through this relationship, it is precisely best to demonstrate and demonstrate the democratic character of every government, to ensure continuity in the exercise of power, to protect morals and the sovereignty of citizens. There are numerous examples in the world where the highest state functions bearers are provided both during, and at the end of these functions, a significant Corps of Rights and Privileges, thus expressing respect and respect for the head of state and also according to their own tradition, culture and national dignity. The Law on the Special Rights and responsibilities of the President of the Republic passed this assembly in 1999 and it is much more modest, but in our economic conditions it is certainly more appropriate and thus regulated these rights. The draft law we are considering today is aimed at further limiting and narrowing these rights to moderation and in a way that, in my opinion, leads and contrary to the role of the President of the Republic. I would illustrate this claim to some of the examples of the bill itself. Article 2 provides that the President of the Republic shall, at the end of his duties, have the right to a life-long personal security of the facilities and that is uninterrupted, which is fine, but the same provision stipulates that these significant tasks are carried out by only one employee, which is illogical and makes this right de facto abolished. It is the same with the established right to use an official vehicle, which is limited by assessing the need for use by government officials. In particular, it is humiliating and contrary to the role of the President of the Republic, to condition the use of those rights under the law and to prescribe the possibility of committing criminal acts. What intrigues me the most and raises the government's real intentions for this bill is contained in Article 3. This is what my colleague Toma Nikolic has pointed to, which provides for eradicating the responsibility of the interior minister to exercise the right under this law. So it is proposed that no one bears responsibility unless one of these rights is exercised, which makes this proposal absurd. The relationship with current and previous presidents, heads of state, is not just about laws. He shows himself in many other ways. Unfortunately, we are here in our Republic witnessing the other ways in which this relationship is manifested, especially from October 5th to this day. Since that date, we have witnessed the unprecedented hickeys and attacks on President Slobodan Milosevic, on his personality, as well as on his family. Recently, media, with the support of many responsible DOS individuals, have been racing to prove that Slobodan Milosevic should be tried for alleged crimes he committed, although no one says and what crimes, which is normal because they were not there. It can only be in mounted court-political processes for which logistics preparations are performed continuously, I dare say even at today's session. I remind you that the fact that a person committed a crime without having evidence in the form of a judicial verdict on it is, in itself, a criminal offence for which, under our criminal law, a prison sentence of up to six months can be imposed. How many people in this Serbia from October 5th to this day, led by the most responsible state-level officials, have done this work, and these same people are full of the mouths of the fight for rights and for legality. Either way, we as a constructive opposition in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have tried to correct these illogicalities by submitting amendments, and if the National Assembly respects these amendments, I am sure that the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposal for this law. If she doesn't, I don't think we're gonna be in a position to vote for this bill. To conclude with the words of Slobodan Milosevic, which seem more current today than before and more when they are spoken -- gentlemen, they are not attacking Serbia because of Slobodan Milosevic, but rather attacking Slobodan Milosevic for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u653	The first reported MP is Stanko Kovacevic, and after that, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u654	This is DOS MP Stanko Kovacevic of the Democratic Serbia Movement. Here is another proposal for a new government law for which both radicals and socialists will rise wide and with a list against it, proving that it is immoral, that it is inhumane, and behind it all again hides the desire to retain privileges. If DOS in its pre-election programmes indicated that it would fight... Please, Mr. President, if you could give a certain gentleman from a group of radicals a moment to calm down. We promised the citizens that we would fight corruption, bribery, robbery, mob, privilege, and now it's a bit of an unreasonable situation. Why do Mr. Socialists and Radicals oppose the bill proposed by the government of democratic Serbia when it is clear that in the first next presidential elections that must be this year most likely, the new president of the Republic of Serbia will be a representative of DOS, or DOS candidate? Why do you have against the fact that those who would propose a future president advances make it clear that he cannot enjoy the enormous privileges that would allow him the previous Law on the Rights of the President of the Republic. The previous law, whose amendments we are proposing today, actually protected the former President of the Republic as if God were on earth. We want to have such a president of the Republic who will be so good, whom the people will love and appreciate so much, that he will not need any protection. We will elect such a President of the Republic in the next election, I think of the President of the Republic of Serbia. When you are so caring, gentlemen of the Socialists, why don't you apply your law to the previous president, Mr. Ivan Stambolic, why don't you protect him, why you let him and why you organize him to be so deprived of his freedom and to this day no one knows of his fate. He comments on the head of the parliamentary group that he was not protected by the law because he was the president of the Serbian presidency, and this law treats the elected Serbian president. I guess the president of the Serbian presidency is also elected president. So, we need to expose your real goals to both MPs and citizens, and tell them what you're up for to make it clear to everyone what you essentially want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u655	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word, followed by Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u656	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in Article 6 of the proposed law, it is predicted that they will not enjoy these benefits that the former president guards one cook if he commits a criminal offence for which he is sentenced by a judicial verdict for more than six months. We're not going to let one cook guard the president, when today we have every juju in this government kept by bodyguards, by ten. I want to point out from a legal point of view that we don't know each other, because the promoter didn't call in which country in parallel law required one person to provide the former head of state. However, when it comes to a criminal offence if he commits and is punished for more than six months in prison, there is one thing that is absolutely unacceptable, that his benefits are lifted then, and a man can commit an accidental crime. Any criminal offence he commits and for which he has been sentenced to prison for over six months, he loses these privileges. Why is that? We'd have a case if a man did a crime...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u657	Vesic and Nikolic, please stop talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u658	A car accident happens to a man who was driving and he gets convicted, and he has no imagination and it's about indiscretion. So, in that case, identify him and compare him to a criminal who committed a serious crime. It is a shame that there is no Justice Minister here, Mr Batic, to give an explanation and an explanation in which we have such a situation in the West, as predicted in this law. Nowhere in the world will one cook or one man guard the former president of the Republic. You pointed out earlier, the predecessor, one of the colleagues who spoke, mentioned Ivan Stambolic. That's true, but that should be our warning. Ladies and gentlemen, someone who was sovereign of a state should be guarded. Therefore, this is the reason and the reason why this is where the bill should be brought and this crime which is put on the line, possibly and which is foreseen as some kind of crime, should absolutely not remain in the law. You should delete it. It is a shame that the minister of justice is not here, to tell us which country he studied this, from a comparative right to draw and present to the MPs, that the MPs are informed, to understand and to be explained to them that so, let's say in England, France, Germany, America, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u659	The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u660	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a pleasure for me now that Minister Batic has returned. We were just afraid that without it, we would discuss this item of the agenda, as well as the next one, which is the rapporteur of Minister Batic, who normally spends the whole time throwing MPs as they present their views on the proposed laws. I don't mind that, you ministers can continue this time, as you do this morning, not just to me, but to Serbian radicals. This is what we expected. This law is also in marketing and in your mandatory role today in this extraordinary session. Markentic because you were only here to write that this is not the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Rights of the President of the Republic, but a law relating to Slobodan Milosevic. He's here, as far as we can understand from your reactions from the scene, and we expect such reactions and for the assembly speaker, quite a side effect. It is said of Slobodan Milosevic, and it is said that Prime Minister Djindjic himself is in the session at which he submitted the so-called. The exposé, he spoke about the government's reaction to the first next session immediately, the resolution ministry, and to deny the famous rights of the President of the Republic. The deputy president of our party's parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who normally needs to work educationally on all of you from DOS, and some are noticed that they are getting better slowly, and he has been giving you really nice advice all morning, told you that our MP group is not particularly interested in this law, for the simple reason that we did not have the President of the Republic, or his election was not recognised in 1997. The fact that you were throwing that opportunity and reacting like that is just talking about your morality and what you were talking about yesterday, and you're saying otherwise today, because you yourself know that in 1997 you were talking about the fact that Dr Vojislav Seselj really won the elections for the President of the Republic. It's that there's nothing here that's been drastically changed, and what the President of the Republic had under the former law, except that he's been prevented from using the official car all the time when he wants to, whenever he wants to, except that with this law, which you're changing, and you're proposing to us, the Home Secretary doesn't want to have anything, and besides that the number of employees is changing. It stands here that the reason for this adoption is by emergency procedure, and that's the marketing part, you promised, and Prime Minister Djindjic, but it says that financial means for law enforcement should not be additionally provided in the budget. However, the way you bring it, through such emergency sessions and such laws, is something that you can achieve a certain profit, because such legal projects and such an openness as you are conducting, you are just once again confirming your service to your Western employers, who probably expect you to continue with such an atmosphere of lynch, with such pressures and with such intentions, which are also shown in this bill, and besides last week's visit to the American congressman, Liberman, as it was - Democrats. It has been said that it will give you some $ 100 million of help, only if you bring all the legal projects in line as they ask you to, and above all those concerning the UN tribunal, which is your basic preoccupation. It is not our concern for Slobodan Milosevic, but because you with such a passion and the fact that you want such marketing moves to create an even more tense atmosphere and political situation in a country that needs to be much more tolerated, which we have been pushing for since the beginning. You also said during the morning part of this session that Serbian radicals abuse the pay phone, that they appear on every agenda point, and you forget one fact, when we are talking about this part of the administration that belongs to the former president of the Republic, some of you are calling for Western parliaments and for the arrangement of their work there, of course I will not...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u661	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u662	To me, for example, the Russian State Duma, where I will remind you not only of the former president, but the current MPs in the state spirit have the opportunity and use this right to have five assistants - MPs and an administration that helps them in their work. Unlike them and, unlike us, who want to seriously justify the trust that the citizens have given us and that we are seriously considering all these issues, some of you, some of you who are from Kragujevac, from other cities, are being dragged here like mice. They return after an extraordinary session, probably leave early session, go to paid or already any term, on local television and there tell the citizens of Kragujevac how radicals abuse the pay phone and don't talk about what's on the agenda. We're just talking about what's on the agenda, and it would be better if you started doing normal legal projects to justify the trust that your citizens gave you in the December elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u663	The People's Messenger Gordana Pop-Lazic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Goran Vesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u664	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I have here in front of me a programme of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia that you went out with before the elections. You're saying in it that you're going to abolish the Act of Presidential Privileges. I ask the Government's representative, why don't we here have a proposal to abolish these privileges, but we have a bill on amendments and additions? Why don't you keep your pre-election promises? We have not received a single draft of the law so far, and it is not clear in the reasons that it is necessary to comply with the political changes that have taken place since the parliamentary elections, according to all these laws that you have proposed so far. Many of them include a set of positive changes. However, whether they are positive or not, they will only be estimated from a certain historical distance once the results of these changes are seen. But if these changes are seen in such bill proposals, it is clear that this will not affect the broadest layers of the population, who look forward to your moves to improve standards and root economic and political reforms. You gentlemen are dealing with marginal matters instead of dealing with the real economic and political problems in which the country is located. Serbian citizens do not need to include the first Radio Television programme so they find out what their standards are, how much more expensive and how worse they are than they were before October 5th. We Serbian radicals believe that the Law on Special Rights and responsibilities of the President of the Republic did not give the President of the Republic any great privilege at the end of office and I do not like that you personify the role of the President of the Republic and when you think about the President of the Republic, you only think about Slobodan Milosevic or Milan Milutinovic. We've only been in democracy for 10 years and for the next 100 years we can have a maximum of 10 presidents. This state of Serbia is not so poor that it cannot provide a minimum protection for people who have performed such high-ranking state functions. I guess one former president deserved to have this minimum administrative staff after his office so he could be a public figure, because he's still a public figure, if he was so high up, that he's doing any work, maybe scientific, cultural, he can write books, he can write memoirs, anything, he must have some kind of administrative apparatus. Will the former president's personality provide for one or more officials to really regulate it by law, because it depends on many circumstances, and it is far more celibate that the decision on it is made by the interior minister, than that it should be regulated by law, unless, in this way, the interior minister does not want to take down responsibility for himself in the event that this one employee, who should provide both the object and the person of the president for any reason and physically cannot be in two places at the same time, and I would ask Mr Batic with how many security members he walks the streets of Belgrade? When you visited the premises of the former Ministry of Local Self-Government, Mr. Batic, you were accompanied by four or five security men. By the way, by the way, not to get the impression that the DOS government wanted to achieve some rationalization with these amendments, I mean the costs first of all, because theoretically speaking in this century, I've already said that we can't have more than 10 presidents of the state. We have information, you can confirm how many ministers from this government have already made adaptations to their cabinets. The Minister of Labour, entering the cabinet of former Minister Nedeljkovic, who, by the way, is said very well equipped, said -- you don't think I'll be sitting in a cabinet like this, take these pants off the window, throw this furniture out, and order the restoration of your cabinet. Gentlemen, governments will be much more frequent than the Presidents of the Republic and the costs we will have if we have such ministers who will take care of what their cabinets look like and what they are equipped with, will be a much higher cost than what is predicted as a minimum for the work of a former highest official of a state.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u665	The People's MP Goran Vesic has the word, followed by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u666	The law on protection, on special rights and duties of the President of the Republic is appropriate for a poor and small state like Serbia. Unfortunately, we wanted to avoid it or not, it was done less to one man, although it applies to the President of the Republic and to every future president, as well as to those who are former. We heard here that the president should be treated with special respect, each former, which is also true and not everyone can be president of the Republic, but on the other hand there is one illogicality. We're a federal state. We have a federal president and a republican president. This is the only law we have on a republican level. At the federal level, there is no law on the rights and duties of the President of the Republic, and we have three exes since Yugoslavia was formed, since 1992, so for these nine years we have three former presidents of the Republic and no one has thought to offer these former presidents any security, to tell them - you are significant historical figures, so you need administrative staff, so you will write memoirs etc. This was only done when it comes to the Republic of Serbia, and it also speaks about the relationship between the authorities that had previously been to this problem and to the presidents. Unfortunately, your problem is that you have passed almost all the laws according to one party, or one person. As far as the changes made by this new law are concerned, they are very simple. When you read the old law, you will see that the President of the Republic had the right to a lifetime of personal security, as well as security of the facility. This law was followed by a Regulation of the Minister, which significantly derogated and expanded the law. I am sorry, but it is likely that Mr Batic or anyone else will be able to even say how many people or Mr Mihajlović, to say how many people under that regulation are engaged in the security of the President of the Republic, as you have mostly derivated all the laws by regulations, changed as you wanted, although this law very inaccurately determines whether it is 1,000 people, 500 thousand, 100,000, ten, five, it can be as much. Therefore, the former President of the Republic will give them to God and in the future, whoever he is, he's a pensioner, he's a man who was president, who doesn't need any special security. If you only think of Mr Milosevic, he has money to pay for private security, which he does, but he is not personally the subject of this law. It's really funny to connect a man's fate to this law. With this law, once and for all or in some time, Serbia should regulate that no one, nor the former presidents of the Republic, have the right to use any powers, which are enormous, which are amazing. Why? Neither the ministers nor the former Prime Minister will have the privilege. Unfortunately, most previous speakers have linked this law to certain things, which have nothing to do with it, such as co-operation with The Hague tribunal and similar things. These are other things, other topics, that's not what we should talk about here. By this law, we, as a Parliament, say that we will not spend people's money on the security of a man who, no matter who he was, even the former president. And finally, what Mr. Stanko Kovacevic says, that's true. Do not talk too much about the morality of one authority being felt by how it treats the former president, because as long as you say so, it is the shadow of Ivan Stambolic, former president and best man Slobodan Milosevic, for whom you still do not know where he is today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u667	Now that it's ten minutes to five, according to the Rules of Procedure, it's 10.00 to 17.00 hours, so since there's still a lot of work left in front of us, I suggest that, like yesterday, we continue to work until 20.00 hours, and somewhere before 20.00 hours, we make a final decision on it, as long as we work, whether we continue tomorrow. That's one suggestion. Second proposal, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u668	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, I haven't looked at which member of the Rules of Procedure, but we really can't decide more times in the course of the day how long we're going to work. It doesn't make sense. According to the Rules of Procedure, that's what we decide at the beginning of work, as a rule. I accept that it doesn't have to be that it has to start at the beginning, here I accept that at five o'clock we solve it, but we're not going to solve it again at eight, so we're going to have to extend it to ten, and then we're going to solve it again. If you're ready to work till twelve tonight, make a decision now. If you want it by eight, bring it in now. Don't, because there's a lot to plan during the day. We can't depend on when you let us go to lunch, when you make a decision as long as we work, there's 250 of us here. We want to know something at least about how the session is conducted. So, I suggest you propose now how long we're gonna work tonight, say it out, because we're not running away from doing it. Believe me, I have experience, when the Socialists chaired the sessions, and they extended it indefinitely, it's a terrible decline in concentration. That might suit you, to finish all the laws quickly, but we won't say anything concrete, nothing useful, we won't do anything, which could help the laws to work or not. So I'm asking you to know, eight hours a day is some normal working hours, so here's nine and ten hours, but let's not go into suspense, so you suggest we work till eight o'clock. We better know now, if we work till 12, some MPs will go to change, but they'll be back to work again. This way, I don't even know what we're on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u669	Eight hours working on these breaks we had, that's about 10:00. We'll see, we have more suggestions, and we'll determine the final time. We had breaks, delays in the beginning, and half an hour of delays in the follow-up and two hours of breaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u670	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a proposal for us to be working today until this job is done. We're in no hurry, but we want a session to be done. We don't just end the session because you're going out and outsmarting. So, if you don't sit down, then cut your discussion short, so you all get to your turn, and we'll end up in the course of today. The female political network is in a position to do this until it's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u671	Please, gentlemen, we must make a decision. One is a proposal to continue the work, and then decide whether or not to interrupt the work. We're practically counting on working until the end of all the agendas. The second proposal is to set some time to a reasonable 2200 hours, which is about eight hours, with too long breaks we've had. Let's make a deal, after 10:00, we won't be working. We practically have two suggestions. Is there a compromise solution? Then I'm putting a motion to vote to work on new proposals by the MPs, that we should stop working, actually count on... Here's Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u672	Given that the DOS intends to make the Republic Parliament a place to work effectively, I propose that we now define 22.00 hours as a time in which we will end Parliament's work and spend eight hours effectively on this job. As other citizens of Serbia have done, it would not be good for Parliament to be a talker and where MPs will sleep and spend time earning each other, with the part I represent silently being there for the minority who interprets it as part of its supremacy and skills. So I suggest we work till 10:00, and then we continue this session tomorrow at 10.00.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u673	I'm putting a motion to vote, as Mr. Jovanovic formulated. Before that, please let us determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting a motion to vote, to be done by 10:00. For 125, against 29, the three abstentions, did not vote 10, a total of 167 MPs were present. We can keep working.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u674	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must first of all note that we MPs of the Republic Assembly are talking about this law with two diametrically opposite positions. Socialists and those who have honour and cheeks when it comes to President Slobodan Milosevic see in this law a law that is a picture and an opportunity of what DOS thinks of President Slobodan Milosevic and I cannot help thinking that this law was just made because of President Slobodan Milosevic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia, president of Serbia in two terms, Mr Batic... (Bate, from the place: - Former. )......................................................................................................... The former, yes, but with several million votes from our citizens who voted him, as did President Milan Milutinovic, the current president of the Republic of Serbia, with over two million votes, etc. I also remind you that in these elections for the federal president, in which he has lost the truth, he has also received about two million votes, which is why I say we are talking with two diametrically different positions, because those who would like to adopt this law without debate would simply talk about it as a law that allegedly gives some privileges to the former presidents. Mr. President... (The hall is being abandoned by MPs from the Women's Political Network, which is causing some MPs to feel bad about themselves).... Please allow me to speak and not count this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u675	The MP is absolutely right. Indeed, there is no sense in your conduct, gentlemen of the People's Messengers, nor of those who come out of the hall, nor of those who constantly interfere with the work of the Parliament. Indeed, if you have a little dignity and responsibility in front of a people who observe you in direct transmission, I ask you to act as messengers of the people. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u676	Thank you, Mr. President. I hope you'll be able to listen to me in five minutes. I ask the president not to respect me this time while you were out of the O.R. and making a fire. You didn't confuse me at the end of the day. After all, I want you here as a man, as a patriot, as a socialist to speak and emotionally (the voice - perhaps you will cry) and I would be able to cry, sir, if I were to talk about the president and when I talk about the president who is in our eyes a hero and a symbol of resistance, whom you gentlemen, with the support of the West, are trying to persecute with all the means in these days. I want to talk about him like that. And I will speak with full respect of every other president whom this people legally elect. For example, about Vojislav Kostunica, and I will not bring any president into such a situation as to speak of him with disrespect, underestimation or insults to his personal account. So, just so we understand each other. This Serbia had two presidents. One of the formers and one of the currents, and is that such a problem that we're talking about so much now? Privileges. Please, what is the privilege of the proposed law? What is the privilege of the previous law? What is the privilege, which in my opinion is the obligation of the state to protect every citizen, to take care of his safety, including the former president. And you suggest we do all that with one man. Is that possible? Is that possible? Of course the minister of justice can think differently. I watched a TV show where they asked him, "Would you, Mr Batic, as a lawyer, protect Slobodan Milosevic on any of the courts? ", and of course he answers that he would rather be a prosecutor than a lawyer for Slobodan Milosevic. And I am telling you that the vast majority of citizens in this Serbia still don't feel that way about Slobodan Milosevic, as Mr Batic thinks. That's why a law like this came out, so we could deny some kind of privilege that wasn't really there. It is only that we are trying to remove the provisions relating to the interior ministry's competences from both the government and the state for future security and Slobodan Milosevic and each other's president. I think that provision must remain in the law, and not because of Slobodan Milosevic, but because of everyone who has performed that function, because in different times the political security situation in one country is different. The most normal thing is that the Government, according to the current situation, is making appropriate decisions, and the competent ministers are prescribing appropriate procedures and that some work will be done. You, who stand for some kind of West-type democracy, I remind you -- there's always a president in America. Do you remember Mr. Carter, who even took part in some peace missions around the world, including us in the Balkans. Do you remember any provisions of the law in England, which say "one time a minister, every time a minister, a whole life minister", and we all have a duty to treat these people with due respect. I don't see any good intentions here, and that's what this is all about. Finally and a very specific question for whoever proposed this law - what does the Labour Relations Act have to do with Article 6 of the proposed amendments and the addition of this law? So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u677	The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u678	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I believe you share my opinion that the citizens of Serbia want an orderly state, a state in which many relations will be known about life and the work of citizens, from the point of view of security to work in the economy. When it comes to security, certainly in a specific position are those involved in public life or in the field of culture policy, because in such a position can be targeted by a variety of categories of people. It was normal to expect that the DOS government of the Republic of Serbia, which is absolutely oriented according to the views of individual Western forces, particularly the US, would seek to adapt its legislative solutions to the legal system of those states. However, the lacrosse that went on yesterday in this assembly related to the laws that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has set, and better yet, has given as many amendments as these poor laws of two or three members have, thus showing how seriously they have all been through here, and the money they spend to be here yesterday and today, continues today. The government of the Republic of Serbia in this situation, with this law, because it is a misery to say the law for these four sentences, the removal of two parameters, essentially showed its true face. She showed her moral values. It is clear to anyone who has read this law that DOS gentlemen sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia had a red scarf called Slobodan Milosevic when they wrote the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of the President of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the Republic of Serbia is a chosen person. Slobodan Milosevic, once Milan Milutinovic, was elected twice in this country. The chosen personality, in which at those moments the people put their trust. These Serbian citizens, as former presidents, are said to be the former -- it's ugly, former presidents, enjoying trust, enjoying the right and obligation to hold many talks, many of the actions that were important at that time for the country, to themselves. They have the right and obligation of a specific life that takes place, and thank God, if God gives health, in retirement days. What did the Government of the Republic of Serbia do? She made a hypocritical move, deleted a member of the Law, which has the obligation of the interior minister to maintain the security of the former president of the Republic of Serbia. Think of it, the interior minister who does not want to worry about the citizen and his security, and in particular declares that he will not worry about the security of the former president of the Republic of Serbia, who has been elected twice in the elections, at a national referendum in the Republic of Serbia. It's a shame. It's a question of the morals of all those who signed this proposal. Gentlemen, tell us then - we have agreed with NATO aggressor, they need victory, they need justification for destroying this people and harassing, we will give Milosevic only one bodyguard and we will give him the right to take one of the 50 cars from the Serbian government's fleet. Maybe this new one that was bought for Mr. Djindjic and the cash paid "Audi" from the day before yesterday, and he'll have the right to take one car, who knows what kind of car. Where's the safety? Please say it loud and clear - we will not guarantee the security of the former president of the Republic of Serbia. Put it out to the citizens of Serbia and you've done your job.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u679	The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u680	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the reasons for the urgent procedure, it is as follows: This law regulates the rights of the President of the Republic in a comprehensive and new way, and it is necessary to pass laws in an urgent manner. I don't know if anyone here in this House is the most urgent problem -- what is the security of Slobodan Milosevic, unless someone has any intentions, which you don't know who they are. Two and a half hours ago, Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Covic, accompanied by a KFOR vehicle and four jeeps with diplomatic plates, in Bujanovac, with a group of similar Serbs, invited by a specific scenario, held a meeting in Bujanovac. Five minutes after Mr. Covic's exit from Bujanovac, the Cypriots attacked Bujanovac from their weapons available. That's accurate knowledge, you can check, you have cell phones, get out here on the balcony and check right now. If it is more important for this parliament to provide Slobodan Milosevic with security than that -- whether the children in Bujanovac and the citizens of Bujanovac and Presevo are killed, but trust you, you are indeed a Serbian parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u681	There is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u682	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable fellow Members, I would like to draw attention to a few things about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Rights and the responsibilities of the President of the Republic. First of all, I would like to really pay a little more attention to how the specific rights and duties of state officials are regulated in parallel law, so in countries that have much more developed and much more traditional systems, multilateral and multi-party life, in order to adequately make decisions that would be in our lives and in our lives for a long time, and not represent certain political steps, which would meet with the realization of some unserious pre-election promises, and not make sure that our country really has to worry about its current and especially former state officials. Therefore, I must draw attention to the fact that political motives for the adoption of this law must not be too far-reaching, so that we have to worry about the fact that the state of Serbia has to take care of all its citizens and, above all, those who were at the head of that state and who are carrying exactly the difficulties that the whole state is carrying with it. I've been deeply shaken by the news that I've heard for a little while, and I'd really like to get some real information about what's going on in Bujanovac right now. That tells us, and it reminds us that our country has a lot of problems, has many enemies, and these enemies are one of the more reasons to take care of ourselves and take care of those who were, and are at the top of the state. As far as the bill itself is concerned, it is really physically impossible for one, and in letters -- one employee, to constantly provide anyone, whether or not it is provided by the former President of the Republic, 24 hours, that is physically inconclusive and that is something that should really be asked by whoever wrote this bill, whether it can be physically feasible and whether it is to honor a man who could write this. Furthermore, indeed, this proposal that, if the former president or former president is convicted of a criminal offence on an unconditional sentence of imprisonment for more than six months, he loses the right to exercise the special rights set out in this law, the minority is unserious because it can indeed happen because of some decisions or some events in private life that the previous president, regardless of whether it is the former president, or someone who will be the future president, can therefore be caught in a situation that would deprive him of these special privileges. I would really like to draw attention once again that at this point you should not have a picture of Slobodan Milosevic, the previous president of the Republic of Serbia, but that we might and must bear in mind that even the future presidents of the Republic of Serbia will have, if you pass such a law, a narrow and very narrow scope of rights and special duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u683	He has the word MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u684	We've heard here one piece of information from the MP, about the Bujanovec. We are sitting here discussing - whether the current Government of the Republic of Serbia will allow the Minister of Interior to say - I am not responsible for the security of the former president of the Republic of Serbia, and whether parliament will agree with this, and we hear the information that a frontal attack on Bujanovac has been carried out, or we have no idea what people from the Government of the Republic of Serbia are doing when it comes to southern Serbia. Please ask, as MPs, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to get the current information - whether it is true or not. What we're discussing here is whether there's going to be one or two bodyguards, whether they're going to exorcise their chances of letting a kidnapping take place by bounty hunters. Please, I think it's the interest of all MPs to find out the current truth about what's going on down in Bujanovac, is it true that a frontal attack has been carried out by terrorists or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u685	The word has the people's co-worker Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u686	I would agree with the chairman of the SPS parliamentary group and I would ask, before my presentation, for the President of the Assembly, Mr. Marcianin, to immediately provide us with information on what is going on down in Bujanovac, so that someone from the service should inform the president to contact us on the matter. What I wanted to tell you today is that for the third, fourth time, I present myself to the citizens of Serbia, probably today as a member of a minority who is harassing the majority, but given what is happening in the south of our country, and given what unsuspecting proposals are proposed for amendments and amendments to the law, I felt the need to report and say a few words. Mr. Vesic of the Democratic Party said a few things, but the funniest thing was that the president of the state or some former president, when he retired, was likely to make his own coffee, or drink coffee, and be a pensioner. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which all MPs should know well, in Article 83, paragraph 5, says that the President of the Republic of Serbia is handling armed forces, in peace and war, and people's resistance, ordering general and joint mobilization, organises defence preparations under the law. Does not the majority in this House realize that a man who deals with such a business in one country, when he retires, is not an ordinary man and cannot have only one creature next to him who will cook his coffee as Mr. Vesic said, or drive him perhaps to the library or go on a tram? The defence of this country and the security of this country, and I repeat, this country did not start on October 5th, it began much earlier and the importance and importance of the President of the Republic was and remained, and will remain much after the DOS. Therefore, this law has been written for Mr Slobodan Milosevic, although you say that you are not, it is not correct, it is not human, it will be the generations of all this and I ask that this law not be adopted as such, because in no democratic country the President of the Republic is not what you gave to your amendments today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u687	Mr. People's Messenger, you know that there is nothing else we can discuss today but what is on the agenda that is set in advance. This is an extraordinary session and at extraordinary sessions, in this case, the government has set the agenda and we have not discussed the agenda here, but we have been going on the pre-determined agenda. So no matter what happens now, as you are informed, I was not in the O.R. at the time, to inform the Assembly of what is happening in southern Serbia and to open the debate, you asked me to provide information. If I have information, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u688	Mr. President, I was just talking when you weren't here, I was looking for information about what's going on in southern Serbia because the situation seems to be complicated, and we're Members of the Serbian Parliament and the information is needed, so that you, through the authorities, can see what's going on and give us that information.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u689	Thank you. The registered MP Sinisa Mitrovic is next, followed by MP Borisvoje Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u690	Dear President, honourable MPs, respecting the atmosphere of concern opened by Mr. Ivkovic, I ask him and I to reason with him that we stop mourning the person and act of the former president and move on to it, because I am neither a spokesman for the government nor have I a mission. What I'm saying is that the whole mission that was today and yesterday is in the function of disassemblying something, which was the nakarad state of Serbia. It's about unmounting models, those that were in the function of Serbia's Pharaohisation, and that's something that needs to be completely unmounted, to be modified. In that part, I think our job is that too, to accept the government's proposal and to enter the process, to allow us to finally do real and progressive state affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u691	Mr. President, you weren't in the O.R. when I went out for a pay phone, after the Radical MPs who gave the information that Mr. Covic was with KFOR today, and after he left, the general offensive on Bujanovac began. I just came out as an MP to ask you as president of the National Assembly to ask what's going on and tell us in this room what's going on. Nothing more. As far as this gentleman is concerned, it is not pagan customs, but we are trying to do very seriously in this room, and we have been proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia by the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of the former President of the Republic of Serbia. The law should apply, that health and happiness, from now on plus in the next hundred years, but I had the right to realize that those who and how they swear on solutions to Western democracy, did not get the idea of rewriting those solutions to previous presidents, elected by a referendum in the elections of those countries, so that they could rephrase here in the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, we realized that we had like a red handkerchief in front of us the character of Slobodan Milosevic and a bounty hunter, from the drug mob, the corrupt media, and that they wanted to open up a complete way to finish the job.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u692	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the one who speaks of pagan customs, should read something about it. I recommend Mr. Tzakanovic, I recommend to you Professor Tzakanovic, because it is our old religion, and even the Serbian Orthodox Church has included many pagan customs in our Orthodox customs so as not to separate us from our old faith, and only a dead man is mourned, and Slobodan Milosevic is not dead, only if what you are preparing is realized. I suggest to DOS MPs that it is better to abolish the Law of Privileges of the former president, immediately propose an amendment to delete all points of that law and we will vote in favour of that law. It is much better, fairer, more honest than this law and prepare practically Slobodan Milosevic for what is coming to him. The UN tribunal spokesman said Slobodan Milosevic is a threat to the current government in Serbia and therefore has to be in The Hague. The president of the federal government, the DOS coalition partner, Zoran Zizic said that while he is president that Milosevic will not be extradited, the Serbian justice minister responds to this and says -- so Zizic will no longer be the president of the federal government. He does not say Justice Minister - Mr. Zizic probably has in mind the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which prevents the extradition of the citizens of Yugoslavia, but we will enter the procedure for changing the Constitution, we have a sufficient majority, a two-thirds majority and we will change the federal constitution and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and we will extradite Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague. He says -- who is not for the extradition of Milosevic, he will no longer be in office. Then how can we trust you to believe that this law isn't really preparing for such a thing? You have to understand why they're radicals against it? We don't want to be accomplices to what you're preparing because these abductions to some attack, until the arrests you're about to make, will certainly come by voting for this bill. We don't want to put ourselves in the position of someone who made it possible to perform an anti-constitutional act. Don't hand anyone over to The Hague, no Serbian citizen, no Serbian citizen who is not a Serbian citizen, but is located in Serbia's territory, because that's the end of this country. It can be done as if it's a point.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u693	Time?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u694	This is what I've been saying for the third time in the name of the parliamentary group, and I've only been saying seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u695	And not as a replica? I think you've reached out to the replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u696	No, I answered my word. I heard here that we had two presidents on the federal level, so no one thought to pass such a law. They were not elected directly, elected by the Assembly. Even Slobodan Milosevic, when he was federal president, did not propose such a law for the former president. He was elected directly to the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, convinced he would win safely. He didn't win. That doesn't mean that we can't say -- if someone was a Serbian patriarch, if someone was the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, if someone was the president of Serbia, we can't say that the man is now a "skup". Never forget, the one voted for by the majority, and for the president of the state has to vote most of the number of outs, and it has to come out more than 50% to be elected, that man cannot be spoken of as someone who deserves to be denied his rights just because he was our political opponent and just because we don't like him politically. This is why radicals cannot accept voting for this law, especially after informing Mr Vesic that the government Regulation allowed a hundred police officers to guard Slobodan Milosevic and now that is the reason for the change of the law. Bring in a new regulation. Now you write down the Regulation that only one police officer guards Slobodan Milosevic. It's got to be a cop. Please, why would this assembly be interested in the personal security of Slobodan Milosevic, if that is not the security the government of the Republic of Serbia has to provide. So what are our intelligences? If the Home Secretary isn't responsible for security, that means he's not a cop. Then what do we do with Milosevic's security? Then he'll hire some private agency for his own safety. The promoter here, I don't know if it wasn't clear to him, he may not have cared about it, but here the promoter has made it clear to us that the state will not protect Milosevic, but may be refunding the costs he has to hire one who will protect him. It's not government business. Milosevic has so much money, according to the property he owns. And fears that Slobodan Milosevic, if he commits a traffic violation and is sentenced to prison for more than six months, would deprive him of his privileges, are not justified.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u697	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u698	You're not going to let him wait six months in the country at all. But if you want to take the people to the streets against it, if you want to turn the radicals, finally, against yourself, then think that way. Just laugh. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] If you think you are leading the state so that we are your opposition, which will be for and against you, then don't think about extraditioning Serbs to The Hague, and don't think about delivering Serbian citizens to The Hague. That's no point. That's not the point, because everything's been picked up three to four times since you've been in power, because everyone's been complaining. Because I'm going to prove to you at the next points that the people who were for you in October are now against you. That's what you're thinking. They couldn't think of those who were in power before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u699	The word has a People's MP, Borisvoje Mijatovic, and after that, MP Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u700	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand why this very clear legislative proposal has turned into a hypothetical and speculative debate, a discussion on the position of Slobodan Milosevic. There is no debate here on Slobodan Milosevic, he is likely to be debated one day in this home. It is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Rights and the responsibilities of the President of the Republic. I think the law is good. First, it's short and clear. We have in mind that the presidents of the Republic in modern states, when their term of office is up, are indeed in the full sense of the words of pensioners, but respect for them remains in that they are forever referred to as Mr President, the months of the President, and his title is always standing, always happily seen, becoming humanitarian, peacemakers, etc. That's the Carter case. In that sense, we did it as a country that wants to be a modern state. I would only like to point out the example of General De Gaulle, who was very inspired by this relationship between our president, Mr Kostunica, and his duties. De Gaulle was the concept of a humble man, the greatest Frenchman of the 20th century. He died modestly, retreated for one insignificant Law of Local Self-Government, which did not pass, and he was excused because he was already tired. So many assassinations he escaped in his life and political career and ended up living in the country with his wife, having a servant, a woman, and a guard, no one else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u701	The word has the People's MP Stevan Guduric, followed by MP Marko Culibrk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u702	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I suggest that today there is no vote in favour of the amendment law and amendments to the Law on Special Rights of the President of the Republic, because it is not actually proposed. I'll tell you why I don't think he's even proposed. This, as it was written, was supposed to be called the Firearms Act by Slobodan Milosevic. It was supposed to say that the chief in charge and responsible for this was Mr. Vladan Batic. It was supposed to say that Mr. Batic was also admitted to travel expenses to The Hague, to carry him out himself, so he wouldn't accidentally lose himself on the way. Mr. Batic, it's not enough to have a nose to smell Mr. Javier Solana, to have a little face, honor and dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u703	The word is made by MP Marko Culibrk, and after that, MP Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u704	..... discusses these two days on the draft laws offered by the new authorities. The question arises why such unprepared laws and such unimportant laws are being issued at this time, when the decline of living standards and the threat of our country has much greater significance than that. Trying to look at it, I came to three conclusions. First, that our experts in the government are still not used to acting as authorities, because they still propose laws as opposition, because they think so. Secondly, that they don't know things, so they're proposing very ignorant laws, in reasons they don't state legal terminology, that they don't, as they don't know the matter they're proposing, also don't even know the legal way to propose it. So in at least three or four draft laws, they violated existing laws, so they did not comply, and they also violated the constitutional basis, based on which they proposed the laws. Third, what I didn't believe, until these 100 days have passed, however, the government seems to have no good intentions towards this country. Why isn't it much more important about the fall in living standards that have happened in these two months since they've been in power? Why don't they bring up problems about southern Serbia? Why do not problems arise about the mistakes and infunctioning of the Alliance with Montenegro, or perhaps the government, since they are not here, wants us to have fun with such less important things that are not vital to life, and those in some narrow circles, as we can see, bring platforms about Montenegro, sign and bring some platforms for southern Serbia, and do not come here to ask us to agree, or at least to introduce us to it. They are obviously seeking agreement in Washington at some breakfast or in Brussels, with the NATO Pact, etc. I don't think that's right. Also, they don't bring laws here. They're passing a law against television today. This law that we are now discussing, the protection of the President of the Republic, is a law against the President of the Republic. The next point, also, is the law against the work of courts, as an illegal choice of judges and the appointment of judges is being conducted, a merger of the executive and judicial authorities. It's not in any country in the last 50 years. Simply, television and information were abolished, now the president's law has been abolished. There will be a choice of judges who are similar. The party resemblance for the choice of judges is being reintroduced. So one field is being prepared for one, both the media and the real hickey on all those who are not at the request of the informants. In the light of this law, it stands, as a reason for the urgent procedure -- "as the laws are governed in a comprehensive and new way by the rights of the President of the Republic, it is necessary to pass laws by emergency procedure". If this is proposed by the Government, if this is proposed by the Minister of Justice, if one student can explain this, that he understands the rights, then there's not a single word here about knowing the law and voting the law. In the end, one question, why isn't the Home Secretary responsible for the president's safety? He simply wants to avoid responsibility, so there's no point in being the one responsible for the President of the Republic. We are not talking about any person here, we are talking about the president of Serbia, who must be sacred to all of us. By passing this law, which you have proposed today, we will also reduce the function of the president of Serbia, and we will, unfortunately, reduce the importance of this Parliament, and I hope we care that this parliament remains remembered after the adoption of good laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u705	Before I give you my word, let me read you the information. The Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held a telephone conversation with the Republic Information Centre, with a statement by MPs on emergency events in Bujanovac, and from an on-call operative at the centre found out: The Republic Centre, as it monitors the direct transmission of the session of the Serbian Parliament, called the centre in Nis, and the centre in Nis contacted the centre in Vranje, and received information that no extraordinary events were happening in the area. At the same time, they noticed intensive telephone traffic in southern Serbia is under way. It's obviously the result of the misinformation we've heard here by accident or deliberate. That's information from the Intelligence Center. If anyone has other information, it is required to confirm these information supplies and to take full responsibility in front of hundreds of thousands of people who are watching this television broadcast out with reliable, accurate and verified information, without coming out with unverified information, which can disturb Serbian citizens, in a situation that is not even great anyway. The word is Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u706	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I am the special advisor to the federal interior minister and Mr. Vesic and I have contacted the headquarters in Bujanovac and I have three information for you. What my colleague said about the Bujanovac is not true. So three things happened today. One was this morning at seven o'clock. On Mount St. Elijah, a mortar attack was carried out, and it was reciprocated, with no casualties. At 13 hours of firearms in the direction of Golem Brda, a terrorist attack was carried out, which was returned in the morning at Zubi's Creek, a tractor with four Serbs ran into a mine and these people were taken care of at a hospital in Kosovo Mitrovica. I've called to discuss a point that's on the agenda, about just one question. Mr Branislav Ivkovic said Serbian citizens want organised Serbia. Serbian citizens have wanted organised Serbia for decades and this Serbia has obviously not been arranged according to Serbia's citizens. Serbian citizens showed in the elections who want to regulate Serbia. If they did a poll now among Serbian citizens, you wouldn't get a single man to protect the former president of the Republic of Serbia. This is more than a good gesture of new power, I'll vote for it, but I'm against it. I wouldn't let him follow any citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u707	In this congregation I suppose they pass laws that apply from the moment they are adopted until some future time. I believe and I want them to last as long as possible. It is certain, when we think about the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of the former President of the Republic of Serbia, that we should accept all the important components of who this man is. This man, the president of the Republic of Serbia, is current and he who becomes the former president of the Republic of Serbia is someone who, at one point or more times, has had the trust of most Serbian citizens and therefore deserves respect, and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done is below each level. (Free Janjic asks for a word and comes out for a pay phone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u708	You haven't been called. I'm not giving you my word. The information center has been read, if you have a replica, you have a replica with the Information Centro, you don't have it with me. I didn't call you, nor did I call you an MP, no replica. I'm not giving you my word. The word has been given by MP Anita Beretic, the last registered speaker. Mr. Ambassador, I didn't give you my word, I won't give you my word, you have no right to a replica. Mr. Ambassador, please leave the pay phone. Mr. Ambassador, please come down from the pay phone and give the People's Messenger a word. Mr. MP, act like a real representative of the people of the Serbian Radical Party. I didn't give you my word, and for the last time, I'm warning you to leave the pay phone. The word has the People's MP Anita Beretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u709	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I hope this brief episode in front of the pay phone is just more of a memory of so far culture and conduct in this house. I believe that this is the past for us, and I am convinced that I belong to a group of new generation politicians who fought ten years back and welcomed, thank God, this moment to offer Serbian citizens an alternative, starting with the very appearance of this assembly speaker. Several times during the debate over this item of the agenda, it was mentioned that these proposals were actually hiding bad intentions and that this proposal was inevitably brought into contact with the character and part of Slobodan Milosevic. That may not be good, but it's not an accident at all and we don't have to make any accusations about it. It's only natural that after 10 abnormal years of rule, we should warn that fear. It must no longer happen in this country that no one, including the president of Serbia, is above any citizen, above the law, even above the state itself, is called Slobodan Milosevic or otherwise. No one argues that, of course, the president's office is a very responsible function, but it's also very important to draw the line, raise the bill, and see what the president has left behind, behind his mandate. Those who cry all day for the reduction of these presidential benefits should remember how many mothers, women, sisters mourned their sons, husbands, brothers in the vastly lost wars of Slobodan Milosevic, which he never even announced. How many tears did all those displaced faces that Slobodan Milosevic so persistently defended for all these 10 years, how much crying he was after and because of the mere poverty we were forced into during his reign. Instead of an average civil family, to which I should belong myself, I was brought during that rule to the level of the beggar stick working in education, working with children and having a picture in front of me every day in these very young beings, a picture of our president's practical rule. What is "readying" Slobodan Milosevic, what are many MPs asking about here? I trust this government, and I believe he's not getting anything. It's simple, when he's proven responsible, he'll answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u710	This was the last registered speaker. I'm finishing the initial search. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Rights and responsibilities of the President of the Republic, in principle. For 106, against 32, no one abstained, two did not vote, a total of 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the proposed solutions are legally possible. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. A representative of the Government declares that the amendment should not be accepted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u711	Dear fellow Members of the People, I believe that the representatives of the Government have heard this amendment, may well have been defined differently. I ask that the authorised representative, Mr Batic, receive knowledge of what I wrote and submitted to the National Assembly. So I suggested that the original formulation of Article 2. The bill is amended and said: "The President of the Republic, at the end of his duties, has the following rights: 1) to life security, uninterrupted, 2) to provide facilities, uninterrupted, 3) to assist in carrying out administrative work, 4) to use the official car, continuously. The conditions and means of exercising the rights of the previous position are closer to the government and is responsible for achieving them. "As you can see, with this amendment, I really haven't changed any of the rights that the government has proposed in this bill, even the formulation is identical, just a different system. What is new is that I have given my name and name to these rights and established the powers of the Government, to correct those indifferences with its act, which we have discussed and to establish specific tasks by means of its act, a concrete number of necessary perpetrators. This is all in the best faith that the government, bearing its responsibility for the enforcement of all laws, including this law, will do so in a correct manner. So, with a lot of trust. The second part, as regards responsibility, which has been removed from the members of this law and this amendment, I am trying to return it, that responsibility for the exercise of these rights has been given its name in the image of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's the only constitutional, legal and logical solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u712	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. (Unidentified MP: Can I have a word? - About the amendment? Then please determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 38, against 92, one abstention, did not vote 13, a total of 144 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the proposed solutions are legally possible. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. The Prime Minister suggests that the amendment should not be accepted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. We have a quorum. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 31, against 102 abstentions, six did not vote, 145 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Minister of Justice, Mr Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u713	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, proposed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Rights and responsibilities of the President of the Republic, was wanted to narrow down the privileges of the President of the Republic, in accordance with some of the standards that exist in the democratic states of Europe and the world. First of all, according to the Serbian citizens' standard, which unfortunately is the action and policy of the president so far, broken to a minimum, brought to the brink of the beggar stick. So citizens' expectations are that in the future, much more will be taken into account exactly that standard, that the highest government officials will live at least the same way as the citizens of this country. So, on that, about the same level of standards, because we'll probably never see anyone else's children die in Kosovo again, the children of the former president of the Republic are making fun parks or television stations. Yes, while hundreds of thousands of our countrymen live as exiles under the elementary dignity of a man in some kind of strategists, physical halls, an ex-president of his own, and redeeming himself for the indiscretion of another's house in Dedinj. So, I don't expect, it will never happen to us again, because of one of the most unemployed, most refugees, exiles, beggars, where the lowest wages in Europe, the lowest pensions in Europe, the lowest social product in Europe, the lowest national income in Europe, the highest degree of corruption in Europe, etc. So it is hypocritical to say, in such circumstances, about retaining some benefits, some privileges of the former President of the Republic, and since many have mentioned that there is none, and of course there is no, any connection to any personification, because we will no longer as a new government protect any character and act. And soon there are amendments to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, where there is one member who has protected the character and work of the highest holder of state functions, and that member will be abolished because we want everyone to share the fate of the citizens of this country. And when you mention a relationship with the former president, you should ask yourself what the relationship between the former regime and the former president of the Republic of Serbia, Ivan Stambolic, or whether the former interior minister, in line with the provisions of the laws we put out of force, was concerned about the safety of Ivan Stambolic. [[Applause]] So this is just something that is in line with the expectations of Serbian citizens and something that is even more in line with the low-level standard of Serbian citizens. Authorities must share that level that the citizens of this country have. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u714	Thank you. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm concluding a search of the bill in particular. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Rights and the responsibilities of the President of the Republic as a whole. For 114, against 32, one abstained, not three voted, a total of 150 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Rights and the responsibilities of the President of the Republic. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Legislative Committee. I'm opening a principled search. As in previous cases under previous items of the agenda, pursuant to Article 92(1). I suggest that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly limit the duration of exposure to five minutes. Any other suggestions? No, there isn't. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. We have a quorum. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 107, against 23, the abstentions, did not vote 12, a total of 142 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal to limit the duration of the exposure to five minutes. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative, Mr. Koraq, want a word? Here you go. National MP Tomislav Nikolic is advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u715	We did not arrange our work with these Rules of Procedure and foresaw who in the congregation could speak even when. Indeed, the proposing representative has the right to open a debate on a specific agenda point. In this case, it's Mr. Vladan Batic. Mr. Korac has no right to explain the proposal and has no right to speak in this assembly at all because he is neither a MP nor a Prime Minister. The only people who can speak in this assembly, other than the MPs, are the Prime Minister, the elected representatives of the proposing, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The authorised representative, according to the notice delivered to us by the government of the Republic of Serbia, is Mr. Vladan Batic. I apologize to Mr. Zark Korac if he thought he'd be able to speak. I mean, you can force everything, but then say it's not worth anything that's written, but it's worth just what you want it to be worth, and then there's the chairman of the Legislative Committee, so he can plead. Of course, and the secretary if he gets here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u716	I have a document in front of me and I can show you in some way, it is the authority of Mr. Batic, with his hand written, empowering Mr. Korać to inform the Government that he will be represented by the Vice-President Dr. Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u717	Mr. President, it is a one-time mandate for Mr. Batic to represent the government here. He can't pass it on to anyone else and he's authorized by the government to represent her here. He can't do that. He could also bring his aunt from Nis to replace him here and explain the laws. That really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u718	Let me just check that in writing, the government has informed the minister of justice, Mr Batic. If it is, I'll put your motion to the vote, anyway. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Ali is a broken Rules of Procedure). It'll be enough like this, I mean, we haven't broken it yet. You've called twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u719	The Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, article 13, says - The government sets out its trustees for providing expert and other explanations at the National Assembly's working bodies sessions, when reviewing the bill and other acts and materials submitted by the government to the National Assembly, as well as on other issues, when the government assesses it should determine the trustees. It's clear, the government had to appoint Mr. Korac, to be a representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u720	We don't have this situation strictly in the Rules of Procedure. I'll leave you to interpret this situation. The government has proposed and notified it will represent her at this session, Mr Batic. He has informed that he will represent the government of Dr. Korac. I ask you to establish the quorum and plead to Mr Nikolic's remarks on whether or not the Rules of Procedure have been broken. Here's Mr. Batic. Will you take your word for it, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that the new government must correct numerous mistakes, numerous legislative projects that have caused huge consequences, which have caused great dissatisfaction for the citizens of Serbia. One of those laws is also the Public Information Act, and I don't think it's necessary to waste words - on behalf of that law, or on behalf of the former regime, which is based on the public information plan. Serbia was a public-word concentration camp, a media ghetto, an informative gulag. So what has been incorporated into the Law on Public Information, it has been unrecorded in the democratic practice of European countries in the last decade of the 20th century. There's no need to elaborate that specifically. We're responsible for power. That's why this law that's proposed is simple, there are only two members. We retain the force of those provisions of the Information Act concerning basic freedoms and the rights of citizens guaranteed by the Constitution and related to public information, we will not, overnight, pass such a serious law, such a serious legal project, such as the law on public information. We want to consult experts and make this law according to the highest European and world standards, so very quickly this House will be presented with a new, modern law on public information.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u722	Thank you, Mr. Batic. Do we have a representative of the board? If the representatives of the committee do not report for a word, do the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? He has the word Mr. Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u723	Mr. President, honourable fellow MPs, today we have another agenda item that does not concern 99% of Serbian citizens. The Serbian Unity Party will vote to abolish the law, because it was harmful, a large number of printed media paid large fines. However, they paid those fines for attacking the government. They knew the law was rigorous and attacked the government. Today, you can't see any interactions in any daily list, or even a well-intentioned opinion, as the Serbian Unity Party has repeatedly done, which says we're asking for an extraordinary session to be scheduled, that the agenda points be -- a problem in southern Serbia and a spring set. We had two groups of media, and that, one group that was divided into regime media, and that qualification we could hear from NUNS, which has also been unheard and seen since October 5th, and no criticism has been addressed to those who have been referred to today. This item since October 5th exists only formally, but it has not been physically applied, there is no reason, because we have not been able to hear and see any criticism, when it comes to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Today, the word - regime media - is changing, so the media is under government control. We adopted the agenda today to abolish the fee and the Serbian Unity Party voted to abolish, but we did not provide a new source of income, which means the media will depend on the government, because we know that the current government has paid a large number of fines to media such as "Blic", "Glas" and "Today". However, what information does the Serbian Unity Party have, that it has dropped the circulation to these media, because today you should not buy as you once bought six daily papers, buy a paper today and read everything. Dear gentlemen, we've already lost a lot of time the second day, and this item of the agenda, as well as the previous item of the agenda, is not about agricultural producers, who don't have the money to buy 25 liters of oil, to pump one hectare of land. This point is not about factory workers, who don't know where they're going to pay interest on electricity. This point also does not concern pensioners, who only had an increase in pensions before the election campaign, which was the former government, and it did so in this election campaign and the current government. The Serbian Unity Party would make one request to all media that all critics, including those who are not well-intentioned, be made known in order to provide timely and fair information, as this has not been possible in the last time period for our citizens to see and hear. Thank you. The People's MP Pal Shandor is asking for a word about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u724	Dear colleagues, Article 85. The Rules of Procedure say that representatives of other legislators, secretaries and so on, participate in meetings of the National Assembly, in addition to MPs, do not attend. and members of the government. Since Mr Batic was formally appointed by the government, and Mr Korac, as a member of the government, now has the right to speak after Mr Batic, I have therefore come out to allow him, as a member of the government, to now, after Mr Batic, who formally explained the law, participates in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u725	Of course, you're absolutely right, and not only can he participate in the debate, but he can appear as many times as he thinks it is necessary. The comment was only that he was not authorized by the government, so we discussed the issue. Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u726	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in a campaign for December elections, leaders, and those other, more numerous and more dangerous, DOS leaders, made promises to three target groups - citizens, NATO member states and the media, in particular. I'm independent. Two kinds of promises have been made to the citizens - one is simplified, that there will be higher salaries in Serbia and lower prices, and from the fulfillment of these promises we are still further and further. The second is that all those who have ever been against leaders and leaders will go to prison, regardless of whether or not the people voted for them at the time. This will probably go easier since the justice minister is already setting up similar judges, prosecutors, court presidents and hicks can begin. NATO does not have to worry because no matter how many small books it sends to modern Belgrade's breaths, they are interpreted in detail, they are dived in tears, they hit their knees, the leaders and the smaller ones, and the more dangerous ones, they kiss them and frame them. All threats, blackmails, humiliations, orders are accepted, and if anyone dares to ask DOS what he's doing and why he sells even national dignity, he gets the answer that he's better off silent since he's now voted against the leader and the leader, so his name could appear on the pillar of shame. The draft law on the termination of the Act on Public Informing the DOS, in an already recognizable way, makes a group of pre-election promises to its bosses and servants, NATO member states and so on. to independent media. For God's sakes, the editors became ambassadors and state officials. As an organization of G17 plus, which is an NGO, there are only ministers in both government and government, governor of the National Bank. The law is brief and vague. In short, the Law on Public Information is abolished, but since in three years, as long as it is in force, other than criticism on his account, we have failed to prepare a better one, the law will continue to apply. He stopped being valid, which means he doesn't exist in the legal system, he's not among the positive regulations, but he's being applied. As long as we don't know. It says in the light of the law this way: "The damages of the information law have been produced since the date of its entry into force are known to the general public, so it is necessary to put this law out of force as soon as possible." Article 1 The bill says that provisions of the Information Act which has been suspended by God will continue to apply, relating to registration in the public register and publication of answers and corrections. Since so far the only criminal provisions have been disputed, does that mean that they cease to apply? A man cannot cope with a law in which it is not clearly stated, a member and one ceases to be valid, and a member continues to apply it. What about Article 46(5)? The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which reads: "The right to correct a published incorrect notification that violates someone's right or interest, as well as the right to compensation for moral and material damage caused by this basis." This constitutional law is no longer defended, at least not by the Law on Public Information, and thus begins to hack and publish corrections in small letters, at the bottom of the last page. All the newspapers and televisions aren't worth the tears of one child to whom you hurt your father. That's what you've been doing ruthlessly in the last few months. That way you don't pay the favor, even if it's big or the one they did to you. Independent media or you are ordered to delete the law, to re-emission foreign spy programmes Deutsche Welle, France-International, Free Europe and Voice of America. We protected the state from these spy activities at the most difficult time. Then when they destroyed the state information network. You do what your conscience or money tells you to do in your pocket. Whatever the reason, I'm against the law. More than 400 TV stations in Serbia participated in the December elections. Serbia's radio television with its three channels and TV "Politics" were in the service of JUL and SPS, while DOS leaders and leaders served the rest of more than 400 TVs, local and private. Many worked without any paper. If they were visited by ministers from the Federal Ministry of Telecommunications, an entire town was raised to defend the so-called. Independent media, even one inspector lost his life in Požega, so nothing. The family ran out of foster parents, a state official who implemented the law, and the lynchers quietly split up houses, as all sins in the fight against the former regime were forgiven in advance. Now I'm listening to the new DOS minister, who says that many televisions themselves have been eliminated from the frequency distribution game, because now they're broadcasting a program without any paper, and that's shameless. It was the story of the dictatorship that you twisted, lying without blinking, told the world. Let's get this straight with the mourners of the bereaved owners and editors of the independent media. The Ministry of Information of the Republic of Serbia is only against the "Kosovo-Sot" lists, "Koha Ditore", "Gazete-Erešipćara" and I think Kombah has filed a motion to launch a misdemeanour procedure. The total amount of fines imposed on these sheets is 8 million dinars, and of course they didn't pay the dinars. Citizens, whose rights set out in Article 46 of Article 5, filed against the other lists of applications. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was violated. The total amount of fines charged is 13 million dinars and money is paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget. Why are they being punished? Among other things, the daily "Today" wrote comments that Vojislav Seselj to Montenegrins in Belgrade, if there is a separation between Serbia and Montenegro, will hang on the sleeve of yellow ribbons. "Studio B" accused citizen Gordana Milosevic of calling mobile phone killers when Vuk Draskovic headed home. The punishment for all those responsible in that house was equivalent to 10,000 marks. The Daily Telegraph has announced that Milovan Bojic has arranged the murder of an extraordinary doctor from the KBC "Spain". The Daily Telegraph announced in October 1998 that the bombing of Serbia begins in so many hours. In all the debates in front of judges for violations, those responsible for such articles and shows did not engage because they knew that no matter how much punishment they would pay, the money would come from abroad, and a list of those who were threatened by God and who were prevented from doing their independent work would accumulate. What if there wasn't a law? Here, since it hasn't been applied, that's what the new government said -- the law exists, but it won't apply, and I'm going to name some titles. The first from "The Voice of the Public" on February 4th... (Leila Ruzdic from the post: The DOS won. ) As I said, the first from "The Voice of the Public" on 4 February 2001, in small letters in the title, says: "The daughter of the murdered editor "The Daily Telegraph" accuses Bojić, Seselja and Mira Marković", and that large, darkened and bold title says, "Curuvia and Arkan on the shooting list". Almost identical to the day they wrote "Evening News", only the title was "The Fire List". "Evening News" has no one to punish, and now they're a regimeal list, only the second boss. If that were not the case, they would never have thought to play cruelly with the late Zoran Sokolovic and his family. On the front page, on Thursday, February 8, 2001, above the text on the late Sokolovic reads: "I have ruled for myself" and a question mark. The dead have no peace from independent media. They have already condemned the late Zoran Sokolovic, I don't know why, and they gave him the death penalty, only by them he hastened the executioners and "I have judged myself". If they had written -- they'd put their hands on themselves, they'd have taken their lives, I could have figured it out, but if you'd write for a man "I've decided" and it'd be the cover of a daily newspaper, and no one would be punished for that, you might as well be doing that. On Sunday, February 11th, a commentator on the proposal to abolish the Public Information Act, to cease, and to continue to say...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u727	Sir, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u728	As I was saying, "This is a law that will enter our country's shameful history." It's not. It is a shame, from the aggressors to our country, through their servants, to take their money and pay into the state's budget. It's a shame. It's a magnificent move to see Solana in a broken-down Belgrade. The New Patriotic move is to go to NATO headquarters and help the Shiptars kidnap southern Serbia. The only reports filed against state television, "Politics", "Express Politics", "Evening News", "Borbe", were filed by the Serbian Radical Party at the time, because of the lies the media reported about us in the September election campaign's finals. At the time, Milosevic seemed certain he would win the election, only to break the radicals. There has never been a misdemeanor, according to these reports. That was the reason why we proposed the repeal of the Public Information Act, with the law that preceded it. The proposal is on the agenda of the National Assembly session, which has been interrupted, and it would be better if it were on the agenda, since this is with the draft law that is repealed and remains valid, a simple farce. The law managed to stop slanders, lies, insults, and failed to censor any media. It's different with you. TANJUG reported on January 13th "The Democratic Opposition of Serbia (DOS) has today strongly protested the way in which guests were organised and criteria in yesterday's show "Compromis" TV Studio B, noting that the guest of the show only spoke lies and thus hurt the principle of openness of the media in the most harsh way. The media in Serbia must be open and free, but editors must not allow abuse of public words and call on public figures known as problematic on TV screens as experts," the DOS presidency said in a statement. "The DOS has no intention of calling for legislation to protect the injured personal and political reputation, but we expect independent media, protecting against incomprehensible lies the integrity of public figures, at the same time protect their reputation." End of quote and end of journalist Marko Jankovic on TV Studio B. Now, let someone dare speak or have a guest who will speak against those who are in power. The "Independent Light" from Kragujevac, 8 February 2001, conveys the writing of the weekly "Time", on the chief of public security portfolio Sreten Lukic, who is now being set up. "Lukic has been Chief of Staff for Kosovo and Metohija since the beginning of 1998, until the end of NATO intervention, and has co-ordinated all special and regular police forces. This means that Lukic is responsible for everything that happened during that period, including, this only underlines "and the massacre in Drenica, in March 1998, as well as the massacre in Senik and Poklek in the summer of the same year. Finally, he played a key role," and I underline this "in the mass persecution of Kosovo Albanians during the bombing. During all this time, Lukic was in direct contact with then Deputy Prime Minister Nikola Sainovic, who received the works directly from Milosevic. Both Milosevic and Sainovic have been accused by The Hague tribunal, and General Luiz Arbur on several occasions also mentioned General Lukic as well. In January 2000, the newspaper "Vashington Post" published details of the telephone conversation between Lukic and Sainovic. The topic of the talks was the massacre in the village of Račak, and the text shows that the two are agreeing on how to remove the traces of the massacre. "
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u729	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u730	"Lukic's work was highly evaluated by Milosevic himself, so last May he promoted and decorated him, and this one later shared medals with other members of the MUP. "I have ten more rows, Mr. President. "This story does not end, Lukic is suspected of being indirectly involved in the abduction of passengers in the village of Strpci, who is apparently responsible for his further cousin Milan Lukic, leader of the Visegrad paramilitary formation. Sredoje Lukic, also a distant relative, has served for years as head of state security in Baja Basta, suspected of being involved in a series of crimes in eastern Bosnia in the spring and summer of 1992." How will the whole laws that you're going to propose look like? I'm saying, because now you're in the knowledge and ability to write only laws that have five members, so they don't look anything like anything. In fact, they look like the ones who suggest them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u731	Before you go out, let's finish that story with the wrong information from today's session. I received a press release, issued by the Information Service of the MUP, which reads - A press release: "For the sake of information that there has been a general attack on Bujanovac today, the MUP is denying such information and informs the public that there have been spontaneous provocations in the land area, which represent the continuity of terrorist attacks over the past days. There was no consequence for the members of the MUP, the Yugoslav Army and the citizens. "After this I just have to ask you, all the MPs, that through a pay phone with full responsibility, they place such and similar information - i.e., we are finding out already - disinformation - and that they are not without any need to bring unrest among the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Ivkovic, come in. There's no replica. [[Employer reporting for replica.]] You can't keep up with the Home Office, which gave you official information. Here you go, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u732	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on the termination of the Law on Public Information. So another law on the end of the law, which we essentially extend to continue to be in force. I wish that citizens across Serbia, who are currently watching television and this transfer of the Assembly, could see how long this law is and how much effort it took to put the Government of the Republic of Serbia into doing so. There are only four members, but the accident is that this government, which has done the draft law on the termination of the law, has submitted to all four members and the corresponding number of amendments, so now what we are discussing is not at all like what has been handed over to this assembly. It's just saying that the government hastily moved on to a job that is purely intended for a marketing part of the job, but also something else I want to talk about here. Right away, and this law violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. More importantly, this information law, which has been passed, has been deleted in the good part since the Constitutional Court, so that this law was essentially dressed in order and everything that bothered it could not have continued its normal application. But I'm talking about what's been going on since October 5th. I am speaking because of the way and rhetoric that has been exhibited here by both yesterday's and today's government representatives, despite your presence, the President of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, you have allowed him to fully step out of the scope of his rights and jurisdiction, to take over, in addition to the role of ministers, the role of investigators, the role of prosecutors and the role of judge. Still to take over the role of prison keykeepers in the Republic of Serbia. The result of his work is also outside the Serbian Parliament, where more than 1,000 citizens gathered for a decision that was announced long ago in the media, and I want to talk about it. What is clear is that, through the media, people who run individual parties in DOS, and what is worst, who were either in the transitional government of the Republic of Serbia, and now are in the government of the Republic of Serbia, are using the media to take over the powers they do not have, to which finally the rules of good conduct and respect for each other certainly require that they do not. Insinuations that someone was guilty, through half-truth or false, orders that someone was arrested through the media were present, and unfortunately still remains. Our belief that this process, which is now going to end the Public Information Act, is essentially going to create an opportunity for us in this situation, when we have a media that we haven't had a chance to get to know, because so far it has had media called regimeal, but you have also had media that were opposition, and citizens who have read more newspapers, listened to or watched more television or radio shows, had an opportunity, among the lines, in the contradiction of information to seek what is true. Unfortunately, in the last months in this country, it's enough to buy one newspaper or watch one radio, only the difference is whether one DOS leader or another DOS leader does the right TV. In such party media, the abolition of this law will be strengthened and that is what should be warned Serbian citizens. The purpose of this law is that. Finally, one victim today has been punished by a 30-day detention so as not to affect the witnesses. I guess it was expected that Gane Milanovic would travel across the Atlantic and influence Madeleine Albright and Mr Clinton.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u733	The word has a folk MP, Sreten Mitrovica, and the next is Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u734	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, regardless of what the President of the Assembly said that this speaker is not used for unverified information, I will have to introduce my fellow Members to one of the information that I have received from Kosovo at the moment. I have to meet the MPs and then I'll talk about the agenda, since it's information, and this is information about what's going on at Cosmet. There are Serbs in Cosmet. A convoy headed towards Strpc, the KLA is from a sniper on a bus escorted by KFOR representatives...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u735	Please, that's not the subject of the agenda. We've read the M.O.P.'s statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u736	I have to read this information, and if you don't want to, take away my speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u737	Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u738	A moving bus, accompanied by KFOR, was shot by the KLA. Sniper killed Staja Ilic, born in 1958 from the village of Sevac, wounded Dabic Radoslav from Uroševac, who was temporarily displaced and lives in Brezovica and was wounded by Dragan Veljkovic from Strpc. This is information that has arrived from Kosovo and Mr. Trajkovic, who is chairman of the Kosovo Committee, is not here in the hall, can confirm. This information I got from the Socialist Party General Board, you can check it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u739	Please return to your agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u740	As for the information, as Mr Batic during the election campaign and during the federal elections said that there are no Serbs in Cosmet, I can tell you that there are Serbs in Cosmet today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u741	Last time I warn you, I'll have to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u742	Today, there are about 50,000 Serbs who are banned from informing from central Serbia. The arrival of DOS from 5 October to power has denied us all means of information. How did I find out there was no information? I live in Cosmet, and we didn't get any papers coming in from DOS. We've been banned from all the newspapers until then. There was "Politics," "Express." I think there's no information on Cosmet. I am speaking on behalf of the citizens, who informed me on their arrival from Pristina, to ask the government that there are still Serbs in Cosmet and they want to know what is going on in central Serbia, they want to know because all our TV repeaters were destroyed during NATO bombing, and now we have been denied the newspaper we received during the ruling of the Socialist Party. We won as the UNMIK Co-operation Committee came to Cosmet and from the Committee for Informing Policy, Express and received the opposition newspaper "Blic". At the time. Today, in Cosmet, we do not have, in addition to what I read, what happens to Serbs in Cosmet and representatives of the government, or DOS today do not want Serbs from Cosmeta to hear what is happening in the central part of Serbia. I see Mr. Trajkovic entering the O.R. and he can confirm whether the information I said was correct. Therefore, I would like to ask, in particular, the Government and the Ministry of Information to enable citizens, i.e. Serbs in Cosmet, to be informed and that what is being informed in the central part of Serbia, that Serbs from Cosmeta also have the opportunity to hear and assess the information about the new government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u743	I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u744	Madam Vice President, you have violated the Rules of Procedure. Just before you had three cards on the monitors, you put in and signed up for the vice president, or someone else. There were three registered cards on the monitor for the presidency, i.e. only one person.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u745	I'd like to inform you that the President's card is not reset, and I've inserted my card as vice president. I'm setting a five-minute break until we secure the quorum. I ask the MPs to enter the O.R. so we can have a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u746	Please insert your cards, so we can continue our work. I also ask Serbian Radical Party MPs to insert their cards. Please turn off your cell phones. There are 140 MPs present in the hall. I'm asking you to call the secretary, let's call it a quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We can keep working. The People's MP Miroljub Veljkovic has the word, and after him, the MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u747	In the last sentence of the famous novel E.M. Remark, about like this, the report of the German Supreme Command for the Southwest: "Nothing new in the West". The information we received from Serbia's MUP, read by the president of the assembly, means about the same thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u748	Mr. Ambassador, do you know what's on the agenda? On the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u749	Nothing new in southern Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u750	Mr. Ambassador, don't abuse the pay phone. Well, cross at the moment, I beg you, or I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u751	I'm on my way, Mr. President, to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u752	You should have done it right away, Mr. MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u753	I was just about to start by commenting on Serbia's MUP report.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u754	Yours is not, Mr. MP, to comment on Serbia's MUP report.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u755	Honorable MPs, such as yesterday's DOS, have suspended the existing privatisation law without the government offering a new solution for the area, so today you are revoking another law and not again giving a new legal solution, which will regulate the relationship in the field of information. Yesterday, however, Minister Vlahovic at the end of a comprehensive discussion on the suspension of the Privatisation Act told us a nice story, a guy that Serbia will write a new law on privatisation. It'll all be like heaven. That's why he didn't answer. I'm sorry he's not here for specific questions. Since I was denied to hear from yesterday, it was a interrupted transmission, which was by social firms privatized by directors, or management structures, that it was true that he was the director general of the diloj shower...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u756	Mr. Ambassador, second time I warn you, next time I will take away your word, be kind, move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u757	We're moving on to Mr. Batic today. Today, however, Mr Batic tells a beautiful story that the existing information law is not good and that it needs to be abolished, but he did not allow us to see the draft new law. However, Mr Batic has promised us that we will soon have a new legislative proposal, which will arrange this area. However, I doubt it, Minister Vlahovic said it would be in six months, so in three months, and today we heard the finance minister do this law in three months, and Mr Batic didn't even say in any time period he would do it and give the draft information law before this assembly home. Also, we heard that TV subscription is being lifted today, which I personally agree with and we heard, until a solution is found, the funds will be provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Please, I'm talking about the subject. We are not told, however, that these funds will be provided from the budget, whether at the expense of other budget beneficiaries or by increasing fiscal or tax obligations of citizens and businesses. Here's the theme. So you promise to come out with legal proposals, which regulate all these areas. I'm sorry, Mr. Batic, but I can't take your word for it. In your pre-election campaigns for September and December elections, you said that for all areas of social and public life you have already completed new legal solutions. Serbian citizens believed you, trusted you in the elections, and here it turns out that you cheated on them and that's not true. Then how can they just believe your word? I wonder where so many of the campaign experts are going? You've created with citizens the belief that in your ranks you have so many experts that, Malten, if we start exporting them to other countries, we'll only live as a kidney in the soil. There were so many experts. I'm sorry that Mr. Vesenov left, just an example of an expert, imagine, for example, Mr. Vesenov as an expert, we take it out to the Croats.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u758	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u759	In the end, gentlemen, you have no experts, no finished programs, no new draft laws, you have nothing but empty nicely wrapped words.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u760	The People's MP Joca Arsic has the word, followed by the MP Stevo Dragisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u761	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have yet another law before us that abolishes existing rights. This is the sequel. Since we have abolished the Government Act of the Ministry of Information, we are now repealing the Information Act with this bill. In the end, we will end the other part of the Committee on Culture and Information, which is called information, because obviously we do not need and need it. The government official said that an effort has been made, that this law, which has caused huge damages, is suspended and in this sense brings new legislation, but with it comes the suspension. The four-member bill, which was the subject of the discussion and the Committee on Culture, without the government's representative coming to the first session of the committee, was therefore requested to postpone the session before the start of the Third Extraordinary Session of the Serbian Assembly, could then finally be commented by the government's representatives, because he also came to the second session. But then three amendments arrived to these four members. So these three amendments have been abolished by two members and now the law has two members. In the first article, I'm going to have to illustrate what it looked like, the DPS is always right, Article 1, and Article 2. - if the DPS is wrong, Article 1 will apply. Thus, in the first proposal of four members, the first article abolished the law, and hence the decision of the Constitutional Court of Yugoslavia, which suspended the controversial and unconstitutional members of this previous law. President, please, if possible, allow me to say this in peace. I'm not dealing with general issues, I'm talking about a specific thing about this bill. So, with these three amendments, two members have been abolished and the second member has been regulated that, following the abolition of these two amendments, I say - in the proposal for a law on the termination of the law on public information in Article 1 of point 1 will be replaced by a comma and the words are added: "except for the provisions relating to registration in the register of public messages and publication of answers and corrections". There's an explanation behind that. After that, Amendment Two, which says - Article 2 is deleted, meaning from the previous, then the explanation, is proposed to delete Article 2 which is derived from the solution provided for in Amendment 1. Amendment 3. Article 3 is deleted, Article 4 becomes Article 2 and Article 4 reads - The law enters into force immediately after the date of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". It's the overall legal regulation of this new law. It is not known which members this Article 2 will apply to. Whether this solution will be sought in transitional solutions, leaving members from the 37th former law to Article 41. The law that went into effect until this law was abolished, and Article 1, we said it would cease to apply, and now I don't know what's going on and what's not. It is not clear to anyone to the end what will apply from this law as a regulation that will regulate this matter. This explanation referred to in Article 72. The Constitution, at point 5 or 6, where it is said that the Republic regulates relations in this area, and does not mention Article 46. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is valid and on the basis of which the Constitutional Court of the SRJ abolished certain provisions of this law which were not in agreement with the Constitution, with international agreements and with conventions that regulate this matter, because there is also a broader regulation that is being implemented in other countries of Europe and signed conventions. So, Article 46. The Constitution guarantees freedom of the press and other types of public information. In Article 46, there are more views than this law should regulate this matter of members, not to quote the Constitution. See Article 46, and you will see that all the provisions and attitudes of this article are not contained in the proposed law. For this reason, I propose that the Prime Minister withdraw this law and arrange exactly what members and what this proposal refers to in Article 1. The information law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u762	The word has a National MP, Stevo Dragisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u763	Ladies and gentlemen, it is completely undeniable that the new government should pass laws that it considers better governed the area entrusted to them by management and regulation. It is undeniable that the new government should implement its pre-election promises, that they can only be implemented through the adoption of adequate laws, but they cannot say it uncontestably, but also normally expect that the laws that are newly governed will be adopted in accordance with the proper procedure, that they will be technically correct and that even on the technical side they cannot be made any objections. On the other hand, this new law, which is passed, applies to any area, needs to regulate that area again in a comprehensive way, but now with some different solutions. This seems to me the third time we've passed a law at this session that only abolishes the provisions of the previous law and leaves a large gap in the legal regulation of that matter. The same is true in the field of public information. It was originally intended to pass the four-member draft law, and then the government adopted three amendments that had completely changed the previous proposal and left the provisions relating to registration in the register of public messages and publication of responses and corrections in force. First of all, it was necessary to list exactly what members of the Public Information Act remain in force. This leaves the possibility of arbitrary interpretation of those who will benefit from the Public Information Act, whether it relates to public information funds, the main and responsible editors or the responsible persons in those votes or to state bodies acting under the provisions of the Public Information Act. You can say it refers to a special chapter that has similar names, what you said was called. But then it should have been said -- chapter number that and that one remains in force and all the members in that chapter. On the other hand, you are saying that they remain in force by provisions relating to the publication of answers and corrections. These provisions speak of the obligation of the public opinion or the editor responsible to publish a correction of some information in their media, but provisions have been lifted that state what will happen if they refuse to publish. (Glass: Nothing. Nothing's going to happen, of course. And by law, they have to be punished if they refuse to make a correction. Find any law on public information that looks through the fingers to a public voice or a responsible editor who refuses to publish the correct information. It doesn't exist. Everywhere in the world, you have a duty to make a correction. It is now and under this flawed law that will be in force, but there is no punishment. What if he doesn't want to publish? Or fail to publish within an appropriate time frame, and then it becomes a completely pointless publication of the correction. Nothing's gonna happen. We expected you to pass a new law that would fully regulate this area of public information with your solutions. If you already wanted to abolish the Public Information Act, and based on the dissatisfaction of journalistic professions and other organizations and associations, members of the press profession, then you should have abolished only those members who caused the greatest dissatisfaction. These are members relating to the criminal liability of the public message - the founder, and the editor-in-chief and the agreed editor if he publishes false information that offends a person and can be punished from 400 to 800,000 dinars in a misdemeanour procedure. That was the main problem with the Information Act. Most of all, you've been making a fuss about it. Now you're saying you need to get the money back. And I don't know what else. You could have lifted those provisions. You could have abolished this second provision from article 27 that says that public ballots cannot publish the emissions of the propaganda content of broadcasting organisations that are the founders of foreign governments. It is thought of "Dece Vele" and some other media that have a programme in Serbian. You could've cut that article, too. Much less damage would have been in the field of public information if you had abolished only those members, who were the biggest thorn in the eye of our members of the press profession and other organizations, than you had mutilated the law that regulates the field of public information. The law, according to the Serbian Radical Party, was a very good law. With all your objections, which apply exclusively to these two most important things, to foreign media and to the punishment of public messages, but I'm very interested in how you're going to regulate all those other areas that have nothing to do with this. The only problem related to the Public Information Act was that, under the supervision of the SPS and the JUL, the request to initiate criminal proceedings against the media was selectively implemented, so those media who were not directly controlled by the SPS and the JUL were punished, and the state media, which were under their control, were not punished. We have a final example, it was an SRS lawsuit against RTS, "Politicals" and some other media, which never came on the agenda, and then we suggested that the law be abolished and the new public information law was passed, because the law was not applied to everything. It was applied selectively. That was the main problem in the application of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u764	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u765	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 1. The proposal for a public information law is prescribed to cease the current Public Information Act. However, Article 2 of this bill stipulates that the current Public Information Act will be applied until the entry into force, which will regulate the way freedoms and rights in the area of public information established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This formulation is unclear, because it is said, the law that ceases to apply. From a legal point of view, this is where a legal conversation is introduced in the legal system. It cannot be applied directly to the Constitution in a specific case. Article 46. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in paragraph 3, is prescribed -- radio and television organisations are established in accordance with the law, not with the Constitution. And in a particular case, the Constitution cannot be applied here. Therefore, we have a legal void. We'll have such a situation that we don't know when we're going to get a new law, there will be anarchy and powerlessness in the means of public information. The government could and had the opportunity to draw up a proposal as soon as possible, as there are lawyers in its ranks. A colleague Batic is a lawyer, an excellent lawyer, and I think in a specific case he should have pointed out to the government that a number of problems would be created in this area. As far as public information is concerned, I have to say there's been a misinformation lately. The day before yesterday, Mrs Biserka Matic, a representative of the government, who, in the Presevo Valley, was in Bujanovac, said - we in Presevo Valley, in the area of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedje, will solve all problems by diplomatic means and negotiations. We don't want a war, but here they fight a war every day. Now we have heard from the public information funds that down in the Presevo Valley, in these three municipalities, absolute peace rules. There will be columns on your newspaper tomorrow and will be said to be fired by the Shiptari of anti-aircraft weapons and other weapons and will fire rifles and cannons, thus jeopardising the safety of our citizens. I would ask the government, and here is a representative of the government -- will there be war in southern Serbia, because voters ask me, they say -- is there going to be a war down there or not? And I say, I don't know, I have to ask the government. Well, if the government doesn't know, please, there's a U.S. embassy and Germany, please, run over, ask them -- whether there's going to be a war in Kosovo or not, so I can pass it on to the voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u766	The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u767	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on the termination of the Law on Public Information is another injunction of the new DOS government. The best law Serbia has ever had, the Public Information Act, wants to be abolished, because you don't have a better one. If you'd had a better one, you'd probably have suggested it here today. As long as you don't have a better law, this law is the best, and the best minister is Alexander Vukic, exminist Aleksandar Vukic, because you don't have a better law than he is, and you won't have one, because you've abolished that ministry, and you'll probably appoint a sports minister now to run the Public Information Act. The way you rule and the way you act, in fact, it doesn't surprise you at all, because by breaking the law, you create a vacuum of law, which corresponds to your pre-election wing, where you've been telling citizens to act exclusively by their disobedience, I've listened, and I've listened very carefully to what you've been telling the citizens, and now you've deceived them. You're making me turn away from the agenda, and I don't want to, and I won't, because I respect the president who runs this assembly. I just have to say that those promises, which you've been telling, you're truly faithful and worthy of inheriting, if not otherwise, those examples of MPs in this assembly, DOS, and members of the government, who are not present here, and in fact they need to solve the problems that MPs carry from the people, so what they need to put into these new laws. And because of that, you will never have any laws, because it will not be the laws of the people, but the laws of the revolution. So, "putting paws" on all the media, setting up directors, editors of information houses, both leaders and leaders on local and state media, you're setting up a tight line with a whole chain, as I hear here, with one network. This network, politically, can be both female and male, but you probably rely more on that woman line when you can't pass the laws that you citizens expect. A law intended to threaten, above all, non-professional journalists, editors and directors of information houses, in no case those journalists who were safe and committed, primarily professionally performed their duties, and there are such journalists, but unfortunately that number is very small, thanks to precisely the fear that you have hit now, and before that, the leftist coalition, which has successfully transferred all competences to the current DOS government. Yeah, she totally passed it on. The explanation that the Criminal Law will regulate certain provisions of the Information Act, such as slander and lies, are absurdities that only a naive person can trust. Namely, none of the things that the judiciary would be more expedient, that it would work better and that it would solve cases better than it had done before. Why? Because even now they have their masters, so they will have to work exclusively on the authority's orders, that is, the DOS government, which will not allow them to drop out of the hands of such an important institution as the state media. So, the strain between authorities, information houses, even the judiciary and the prosecution, suggests that DOS authorities have no intention of passing some law that would free the media, but rather a law that will oblige the media to write and do as they get orders from their superiors. Such examples today are very striking in all cities. The euphoria of powerlessness has been passed on to smaller places, and it has escalated in cities far from the centre of power, therefore not only in Belgrade, looking to a government that is not sitting here today, but which is pulling strings and ordering both the judiciary and the prosecution, not only in Belgrade, but in all other municipalities. Just one more sentence, for a publicly spoken word, for this speaker also means of informing on the orders of the new DOS government, by abolishing this law, giving orders to certain prosecutors and judges in small towns such as Sombor, to persecute all those who have the opposite opinions, so their political opposing partners, or politically inadequate persons, above all those who do not think here on the left, and therefore I believe that this information law should not be abolished, if for no other reason, because of what there is a measure that prevents slanders and lies from solving problems which can otherwise be solved in one democratic and dignified way, as is not the case in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u768	The People's Messenger Branislav Blazic has the word, and then Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u769	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the arguments in general moaning, torture and noise, the protests they joined at the Public Information Act, were mostly that the freedom of the press, the asphyxiation of the media, the freedom of the media, was threatened, as the minister said. Maybe it's adapted to some pre-election campaign, I mean that demagogue, and she could have results there. She's anyway away from the real truth. The Law on Public Information really tried to prevent the freedom of lies, inventions, and plantings and Satanization of certain people. It is amazing, gentlemen of the DOS, how quickly you learned from this developed democratic, advanced, humane West everything that is bad and what this same West used in Satanising the Serbian people, in media blockade, planting, making up stories, looking for an alibi for the bombing of the Serbian people and doing a great historical injustice. Perhaps the relationship with the media and your behaviour is one reaction to the media twilight that we had in Serbia for ten years. It was one single twilight, and now it's more and more plowed into one brain that represents madness and represents total darkness. How much the power of the media, could be seen these last years when there was a war in Bosnia and when we could see on RTS the worst casualties, burnings, killings, blood all over the place, so much faithful transmission that sometimes it seems to you that blood from the screen will flow. Then one moment, the man with his legs cut open ordered and said, "It's over, it's gone, and there's nothing left to see." We could see how they... but we couldn't see how the war was 200km from here and how the Serb people in Bosnia and Herzegovina got hurt. As to whom it suits, that's how it's shown. Who actually does journalism? It's about those who have colleges and don't have it, who have high school and don't have it. It's important to know that it's written, there's it in elementary school, and maybe not all the letters, but there's lecturers and reviewers, and they're already going to pack it up the way the political power centers like that story. Many are being manipulated by independent journalists and independent journalism. Gentlemen, an independent journalist is a journalist who deals with another profession. There's absolutely no independent reporter anywhere. Relatively independent journalists may exist and remain very short in certain institutions. Who was suffocating the media because the media was said to be choked? Please, it's hard to say that in a smaller space, with fewer residents, there were more newspapers and more radio stations. I met radio stations both in garages and in wheels, but newspapers and journalists everywhere, and it was written about everything and everything. What's the difference if we compare the old RTS to the new RTS? There's no real difference here. The editorial policy has changed, people have changed, authorities have changed, but in democratisation nothing has changed. Therefore, there is not much moral right to criticise what you yourself are doing. They have not introduced themselves as the great Democrats, you are representing yourself, and therefore your obligation is far greater. Gentlemen, if you break someone's finger, you will be prosecuted for serious bodily injury. If you put a lot of mental pain through a newspaper, to him and his family, if you unargumentedly spit it out, invent a bunch of lies, satanize it in a year's advance, you won't answer anything and ask for it to be completely one freedom given to people who deal with journalism so that they can satanicize and spit on whoever they want and whenever they want. Please, informing isn't just about informing the media, it's about training, education. There's a lot to be done through information. A nation can lift up morally and fully raise its consciousness. There's a lot of hatred in these areas, precisely by provoking various media functions, funded from both the West and the inside. This hatred has conditioned many divisions in the government and in the state, division on yours, on ours, on theirs and on none. These -- "no one's" are the most, and that's just a citizen who now has to read only one newspaper because there's no one else left, he has to read and throw up. That's why, let me tell you, the most in the profession feels that so-called "three-dimensional prostitution" in the profession. The first dimension of this is that man is willing to exchange his opinion for the opinion of some political power. The second dimension is knowingly spit on journalists on their professional ethics and code. The third dimension is when you get more and more money for it, and that money from the West, so he can scold and destroy his own people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u770	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u771	That's really the third dimension of a professional prostitution. This will end, maybe you should start thinking about how that disinformation in the media reflects on you. You see, this misinformation on you is expressing what they're misinforming the people that you promised to bring billions to this country, misinformation that you said there would be no price hikes, misinformation that you said that next week or two weeks from now, you would banish terrorists. Look, it's not good. Those misinformations are a lot of damage to you, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u772	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, followed by the MP Dragan Colic. I ask the People's Messengers, aside from my opinion, which may not be appropriate, that he who can't speak of the bill in five minutes can't think well. Five minutes is enough for much more serious things than this kind of banal and petty changes to the law. But, I say, aside from that. I ask you to respect yourselves, for you have made your own decision, to the vast majority of MPs, that the exhibition will take five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u773	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, it is very little time for us to talk about the Information Act, whose proposal today is ahead of us, that it be abolished. I would like to say that the Law on Public Information, which the Serbian Parliament adopted on 20 October 1998, has personally done me a great honour. Two months after the adoption of this extremely democratic law, which best arranged the area and freedom of information in our country, the so-called European Union, or Council of Ministers of the European Union, has created a list of 19 unwanted citizens of Serbia, who have been denied access to those countries. On that list, I think under regular number 14 my name was also found, explaining that I was with the president of the SRS and his deputy, the then vice-president of the Republic Government, the Secretary General, who was then Minister of Information and fellow Members Steve Dragisic, who was then an MP and head of the parliamentary group in this assembly, involved in the advocateship and implementation of the Information Act. Indeed, I have not experienced more honor in my life than in putting such villains on such a list, in such a high place. Now let me say something about the law itself, whose motion to abolish it is before us today. The law has not brought any repression, as you have tried for years to deceive our public, but has prevented censorship, but it has found the best measure to sanction all those who have spread many misinformation and lies in our country. All this time, it's been shown, and today it's clear from your reactions, who's been bothered by this kind of public information law. First of all, those who have been punished by the provisions of this law and have paid your fines, and thank God they have paid them for all the lies spoken. Many in our country and representatives of the opposition, at the time, and now the authorities, above all, many journalists who were in their position, used the Information Act to use it through express media manipulations, to say to all of us who are fighting America and Western countries' policies that we are primitives, like this or like that, and to show that it is humane to bomb our country, that the further ring of sanctions is tightening and that we are creating the inability to act as all normal world. You, so-called. The independent media, which had the most objections to such a law, had also been helped to develop these independent media and their famous Anem Network 100 million dollars, following the recognition of US Secretary of State for the time being. Of course, there has been a major disturbance among the coordinators in the group, Anem, among independent media and their editorial colleges, to which some of the cookies have been added. You've been crying every day and you've been making lies about how undemocratic we are, how undemocratic the law is and how you're not able to say anything. Anyone who resisted us, whether it was press conferences, whether it was any kind of public appearance, to say that you acted openly and hostilely with the help of such media, you called the most terrible names. The law forbade the re-emission of Voice of America, Deutsche Welle, BBC, SNN, France Internacional, Radio Free Europe due to the special propaganda-psychological war that was waged against our country. Of course, the biggest donors to implement such a policy, such as that. independent media, were later discovered, and that is, above all, the American Development Organization, the Open Society Institute, etc. The Soroš Fund, which you are proud of, especially Sonja Licht, the British Foreign Ministry, the European Union. The Information Ministry, led by Serbia's best minister in history, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, has applied for a procedure against some media, the Cypriot terrorist media. You're also having a funny situation in southern Serbia today, so it's probably funny that I remind you of what it said in these terrorist Shiptar media.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u774	Just remind me of the shorter, 'cause time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u775	In one of them, a story has been published that Ship's terrorists are killing Serbs, and "their heads are flying into the sky like pumpkins". We've been chasing, you've been boasting, you've been fighting against us at the time. That's what you're doing, and now you're getting more censorship. Today in Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest media darkness that ever existed is worse than Titus's regime. You have seven or eight daily newspapers that write absolutely the same thing. You don't have to buy each other. Buy one, everything else is repainted. If I were to tell you just yet, if we hadn't used the Public Information Act to that extent, this is the very provision you're lifting today, I would have used, indeed, with pleasure further that your congregation majority would not have abolished the very provisions of the law, primarily because of the fact that many local media are, and especially at the time of the September election campaign... (President: Please complete the discussion. I'm finishing up, Mr. President... There was so much lies, misinformation, that there was a basis for initiating a misdemeanor procedure before the authorities against the Kragujevac Radio Television, because there was a lady from the so-called Mrs. The women's networks in this assembly openly called for the collapse of the regime in Belgrade, if necessary in blood. Thank you. The People's MP is reporting for word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u776	You have no right to a replica, absolutely. You can sign in. I'm asking for a little order in the O.R. The People's MP Dragan Colic has the word, and after him, the MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u777	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an SRS MP, I assume that the Serbian Parliament will adopt a draft law on the termination of the law on public information. For the simple reason, because DOS has a majority and can vote whatever it wants. It's discriminatory, and it's also for the assessment of a time distance, so, if you want history, whether the previous Public Information Act was good or not. Personally, I think that law was very good. In fact, the law aimed at preventing the treasonous activities of many media and journalists, who were manifested in the so-called so-called media. pro-Western or pro-American orientation. Writing and action against the national interest of the Serbian people, spreading lies and defetism are also a feature of the period immediately before the war, throughout the war, and today the situation in the information is dramatically worsened. Often a lie is used as the most easily launched weapon, hits the goal and inflicts on victims of devastating moral, spiritual, and physical consequences. You're so-called. The independent media, primarily independent of morality, honor, faith and honesty, have launched many, and today I single out only one notorious and shameful lie, as it was that Dr. Seselj said that Montenegrins would wear yellow ribbons. All Serbian citizens know that Dr Vojislav Seselj has never said this, but it is a basis for these journalists and their political option in DOS for political action based on untrueness. The previous Public Information Act only sanctioned and restricted treason and a lie, but it bothered someone. Such media and such journalists, who, for the sake of their personal commodity and benefits, act primarily against the people, voiced against the Public Information Act, because it was in no way appropriate for them to report truthfully and professionally. The media image taken in such a way aimed at bringing DOS to power in Serbia, and many journalists spreading lies about political opponents made a major contribution to DOS victory. Writing and launching lies many of the journalists and media houses have rightly come under the influence of the Public Information Act and should have paid fines for breaking the law. They now expect the adoption of the Law on the termination of the Law on Public Informing of the DOS to return the service for registration aid in the conquest of power. This is the only goal and purpose of the job that today's adoption of this law should be carried out by the MPs of the DOS. Moral, honor and honesty will be pushed aside. Today DOS MPs are going to act on principle -- they need to endure the smile of a flight attendant who knows something's wrong with the plane. It won't be hard for you. You will vote against a good law that has finally seduced order in the sphere of information, and all that is from the West is more expensive than the interests and laws of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u778	The People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski has the word, and then the People's Messenger Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u779	Mr. President, you're asking an MP who's saying he's holding order and discipline, and I'm asking you to put order into this assembly, that there's no throwing, that there's no laughing, and in the end, you owe it to the Rules of Procedure, because you're hosting this house, and please, if you're capable of seducing order in the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u780	Mr. Nikolic, please do not disturb your MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u781	Late truth is much worse than worst lies, and this can be confirmed and unfortunately confirmed in our people. All we can remember is how the BBC reported to the Markals and then sanctions were imposed for Yugoslavia. Racak was a cause for the bombing of Yugoslavia. In this bombing, 2,500 people, destroyed bridges, etc. Just because the information was extremely bad. Let's go back a little bit. In 1993, the worst words for the Serbian Radical Party were spoken for the speaker. That's what the SPS said and no one was punished. Then came the Government of National Unity and introduced order. He who utters lies must be punished and it is certain that it is one of the better laws. Now, here, at a time when DOS power can say who it wants, insults a man, inflicts moral pain on him and doesn't respond at all. I will list only one example of the leader, the young communist, of the Church, with which an ironic smile only 20 seconds a week informs what the Serbian Radical Party is doing. That's one example of how the leader is unprofessional. What's going on with the local media? Surely one thing, in the pre-election campaign, JUL destroyed all local media where the Serbian Radical Party had access, where its members could come to radio television. Unfortunately, there are no such pressures today, but no Serbian radicals have access to a single radio television station. Simply, editors don't let anything be heard about radicals. I have to mention Santos TV again, where everyone has access. He would order for a minister who takes care of public information, a Russian military leader wrote memoirs at the end of his career and ends those memoirs -- "when a lion leads the lions, success is guaranteed, when a lion leads the donkeys the success is half the success, and when a donkey leads the lions, success is guaranteed." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u782	The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic, and then by MP Milan Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u783	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Public Information was passed on October 20th, 1998, in a period when we could already imagine and know that NATO's aggression against our country would be carried out. During that period, the law was passed and the law, first of all, does not end any freedom. The law, first of all, sanctions the anti-state initiative. In this public information law, first of all, there was responsibility for the public word. The public information law did not prevent criticism, rather than banning news that violates the basic principles of information, there were only fines, including those paid by the media, which were punished under the law, mostly donors from the West. The objective information is the obligation of all media. The law accurately defines the obligations and rights of all those who participate in the flow of information. In any event, this proposal for a law on the termination of the law on public information is in fact the price to be paid for the service so-called ‘public information’. to independent media, which helped DOS come to power. You have to agree that there's no way that journalists can write what they want without having arguments about it. It can't be without the punishment to give the public information without having enough data and arguments for all of it, and even a 24-hour time period was enough for anyone to give any information, if there's enough arguments and evidence, to present them to the public afterwards. It must, then, in any case, always have proof that any information would be published. The aim of the Information Act is to affirm freedom and be the responsibility of all media. The problem with the Information Act was only one thing, which was supposed to apply primarily to everything. When under that information law should be punished "Blic" or "The Voice of the Public", the Public Information Act was consistent, but when the SRS sued "Politics", as well as some other magazines that served the regime, those penalties were not even on the court's agenda. For this reason, first of all, this law was problematic because of its inconsistencies. What we have to specify right now is that the media image is the worst possible since 1996 to this day, the one mind that has now ruled since Tito's time has not been like this. Because there were alternative media, daily newspapers, and local television in the past, where something could be heard that is contrary to the ideologies of the authorities. In the current situation, it is very difficult to secure media space, as all media are in the role of implementing DOS authorities. Therefore, the SRS expresses confidence that the free and responsible information is a condition for the rule of law and democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u784	The word has been made by MP Milka Marinkovic, and then by MP Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u785	The reason why I went out for a pay phone is, of course, the Law on Public Information, whose abolition is required, or some of its provisions. When the law was passed, the reason for its adoption was that, as the authorities at the time explained, that this law would ensure that the media only bring and publish the truth, that they would not be able to publish lies, that in this way they would provide objective and true information to the public and to the public, what goal is quite right. In practice, however, that was not the case. On one case that took place in Požega, which Mr. Toma Nikolic mentioned, it was a direct cause for my current reporting, so I will show you how incorrect it was in practice, which was spoken when this law was passed. True, the hack on independent media did begin in Požega on 11 March 2000, when a federal telecommunications inspector, whose name is Nebojsa Marinkovic, came up with a solution to the ban on the work of TV Požega and intended to kidnap TV transmitters Požega. However, the citizens of Požega gathered and did not allow the gentleman in question to kidnap the transmitter. However, under the cover of night and with the help of some wicked police officers of the police station in Požega, it went hand in hand. There's a transmitter in the morning, I can say free, stolen. On the occasion of the event, federal telecommunications minister, Mr. Ivan Markovic, then issued a statement published in the 2nd daily RTS and in some newspapers, "News", "Express Politics", as I recall, that the jezek hooligans were led by the Hajduk, local municipal leadership, which included me, beat the metal bars of a federal telecommunications inspector, who allegedly struggled for life in one of the Belgrade clinics. That, of course, was not true, because we owned the footage, the cameras recorded the whole event, that the man was alive and healthy leaving Pozega, that he was actually at the militia station the whole time, he wasn't at the place where the people got together, and that thing just wasn't right. However, in addition to the fact that we have initiated appropriate proceedings before the competent, criminal, criminal and other authorities and delivered all this evidence, all these proceedings have been suspended by rejecting or refusing our applications, although we have provided evidence that the man has been beaten in Požega. The denials we've sent have not been published, so the Information Act that we're looking for has not allowed people to truly inform themselves and get the right information. Moreover, today we heard from Mr Nikolic, that this inspector was killed in Požega, which is not true, because as very dead and after his death he signed and filed criminal charges against Požega TV and responsible persons in Požega TV. We also delivered these evidences to the authorities. Of course, nothing helped. And that's just saying that the judiciary didn't work properly either, and that will be the subject of course of this assembly, and that this law did not aim at what was said and what was meant to be aimed at, to inform the public truthfully, but aimed at protecting the media who publish lies in favour of the former regime. And another goal, which is that legal fines suppress those independent media, which fail to suppress by hijacking equipment, by various other bans, by not giving a frequency license, by the system of cadium sues you, the caddies judge you. That's why, of course, it needs to be abolished. What is true, and that is that a man died in Pozega that day, but it wasn't a federal inspector, he's alive and well and he's watching us, God forbid, now. That's Mr. Milenko Vukovic. He was a protester whose son was employed on Pozega TV, who received information that he had just arrested the workers of Požega TV. The man was 70 years old and in the middle of the cordon militia he fell and died of a heart attack, which, of course, no one published and our information that we passed on was not published.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u786	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u787	However, since Mr Nikolic will answer, I can see, for a word, I am surprised that he has made such a lie. He may not even know it's not true, but he shouldn't have brought this much of an audience, he looks at us people, and he sees everything anyone says, so he insults those who are hot, who are truly people who are welcoming, benevolent, who are democratically oriented, who in 1996 already showed their democratic orientation in the elections, when the communists have cleaned up their territory. They're the ones who loathe a law like this that protects lies and lies, and also the high-ranking state officials, who lie so impertinently, even if they're ex-state officials. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u788	Replica, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u789	It's obvious that part of the woman's network doesn't understand me and that you, my dear ladies, belong to that part of the woman's network that hasn't met me, so you don't understand me. I was about to apologize to you, and I don't deserve you telling me I was lying at all, and really my information was from the media. I have no other information, and that no one published your corrections, that was the reason why, the first time we met in that situation, we asked to abolish the Public Information Act. It was a sign that it was happening around Serbia, as soon as they could defuse the reports we filed against state television, "The Battle", "News", "Politics", etc. Now, the fact that I apologized to you, I didn't apologize to you, but I apologize to the family of this inspector and the citizens, if that's true, that he wasn't physically harassed, then to the soul of the one whose words I read. But I'm worried about your words, too. You know, I've heard Minister Boris Tadic, who says, are immoral media owners who now work without permission, and those in JUL, and we're predicting for June the assignment of frequencies, that they don't count at all on being able to participate in the competition. You were defending a medium that also didn't have that kind of permission and calling the police officers who were protecting a civil servant and implementing the decision of the state, the immoral police, from the police station in Požega. Now, I'm asking you -- when your laws come into force (the votes -- you're wrong), let me and the wrong question is more important than all that, when your laws come into force and when the government, the municipalities, some minister's solution, and when that solution can't be implemented, and when that solution is made by the M.P.P.D. to assist the police, will you tell the immoral police to help execute the state's solution? You must have one attitude when you are in opposition and when you are in power. Either a cop is moral when he obeys an order or he's immoral. If he's immoral, then I expect the police to cancel DOS's authority's disobedience because it's immoral for them if he listens to power. As expected to ask you nicely how we will defend you south of Serbia when you, as soon as you came to power, declared us all war criminals. I didn't today... But let me, I'll leave that for the amendments. It's three minutes, so I don't want you to warn me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u790	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u791	Unfortunately, I'm not in college at all. I know exactly what I'm saying. The inspector has come up with a solution to the ban. Every solution has a lesson about the legal means. You have the right to appeal, so maybe we'd stop working on our own, and we wouldn't need anyone chasing us on that. So a solution has been made and it has its legal facts and it has both on us and on those who have brought it. But that doesn't mean that the inspector, the police, had the right to hijack equipment that was completely disproportionate to the value of the debt. The debt is five or six thousand dinars, and the equipment is worth 40,000 marks. Even under the law of execution, it is forbidden to do so, to slaughter a kilo of meat, spoken of as simplified. So there was no question at all that it was a ban on the work of television. All right, the solution was made and we might have acted on it, but no one had the right to take away our equipment that was so valuable and that wasn't at all what it was about. The proof of this is that there is now a judicial solution to the law enforcement authority by which this equipment has been returned to us because it has been illegally taken away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u792	For the second time and please...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u793	Some messengers resent. I ask you to read the Rules of Procedure and then to gravitate. So the first solution you received was to stop working, and the appeal to this solution does not delay the execution of the solution. You immediately organized the citizens to prevent the execution of that solution at all. You've continued to broadcast the program. The next way to stop you from broadcasting the program was a transmitter. But don't think I'm protecting Ivan Markovic. There's former Justice Minister Petar Jojic here, he can confirm my words to you, and I'm fortunately keeping all the notes from the federal government's session that he attended, so I have proof of what I'm telling you. Petar Jojic, along with a consultation of me, asked the federal government to deliver a list of all the media in Serbia, to classify it on the media that are working with permission, without permission, on the media that work with permission, and owe it on the basis of the use of frequencies, on those who do not owe, and Ivan Markovic, who was then one of the strongest people in the country, such a small, non-shalantly, stopped sitting and said - I will not give such a notice to anyone. It was a cause for our great conflict. If there were just a little confidence, but it was trust between you who ran the opposition municipalities and authorities at the federal and republican level that was completely rocked and abolished, but if you could have made contact with each other, the situation would have been much better in the country, and the change of government wouldn't have been a revolution at all, and there wouldn't have been a coup and there wouldn't have been a fallout, no kidnapping, no long and short pipes. But you people were slowly preparing to one day in the elections, when the DOS won, and then you were still called "Together," so that all of this had to be done revolutionaryly. That's what doesn't suit me as a man. You can call me whatever you want, but I am by definition of the Democrats, and I can best fulfill my definition in the Serbian Radical Party, not in any of the parties who had to name themselves "democratic". So, again, I apologize for the incorrect information I read in the paper and heard on radio and television. And you think carefully about whether your behavior also caused the death of that man who was in the column. It's on your soul.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u794	Since we have exhausted and searched this individual case, I think until the end, and there have been hundreds or hundreds of them, the word has been made by MP Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u795	Listening to these two days, they're talking to an SPS MP and I'm wondering if I'm not the only one, whether they have accidental, intentional or innate amnesia. Do they really think that all of us in this room, and those who follow us, have such short memories? Do they really think that with demagogue speeches and a bunch of lies they're going to tell lies about what we're actually talking about in these two days, what's the most important result of this assembly meeting and this short period in which the Republic Government is working? I would simply not be calm to leave this assembly without saying or not to say again, to ask the Members of the SPS and the Radicals how they would explain to their voters that in these two days they were speaking against interrupting wild privatisation for the account and pocket amounts of the directors and the SPS of power, the abolition of a racket to Serbian citizens, i.e.. the fees on numbers, the lifting of privileges and life rights of former presidents, the reduction of sentences to prisoners, and the end of the abolition of the consequences of a devastating information law. That's what you gentlemen are talking about. So we didn't talk about new laws here. We, by emergency procedure, have abolished only the most devastating consequences of these laws. There is neither this expert nor the wizard nor the government who has worked for 15-20 days, who could have prepared system laws on these topics that we have spoken of, and that these laws were generally socially accepted, that they were permanent and worth it. It's obvious that some still don't understand that the government has changed. I hope, when the independent judiciary and the prosecution work, it becomes clear to them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u796	First of all, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u797	I would like a lady of honour, who, without any problems at the time of the Socialist Authority in Belgrade, led the Cultural Centre, to remind me of Article 3. - People's MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, they are obliged to address one another with respect. It is not allowed to use offensive expressions, especially for one lady, as well as facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. That's Article 103, thank you for your help, sir. In this congregation, each individual has the right and obligation to express his views on each item of the agenda. In this assembly, it should be recalled why citizens in many countries came up with parliament in the first place. Parliament is designed as the supreme authority of the government to have representatives of the citizens, and in this case 250 representatives of the citizens, have the right to talk, to address each other and to make sure that, in the interests of those citizens who have chosen them, the new legal solutions that will be optimal for the citizens under the consequences. The SPS with its representatives has persistently tried to prove the devastating consequences of abolishing the act of the Privatisation Act and its own transformation. We tried to prove that many workers in many companies gave up their own income to expand the basic resources, to buy new equipment through extended reproduction, to build new halls, and to have no one, not even the DOS government, the right to take away their right to manage their work. Therefore, Your Honor, we are convinced that we are very well, both yesterday and today, have tried you, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and also citizens, who probably not for long, have the right to follow this course of the session, to point out and help make the legal projects better.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u798	Is it a violation of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u799	It's article 100, but I'd like to warn a respected colleague that it's really not appropriate for her colleagues to say, unless she's a doctor of that profession and she's not watching us all like this in the meantime, that we have amnesia and that we're talking a bunch of lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u800	Have you responded to the replica or are you taking the lead of the congregation? You said the Rules of Procedure had been broken. Tell me what the Rules of Procedure had been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u801	"If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended about the other People's Messenger, or misread his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates has the right to replication. "I replicate to the lady, I replicate to you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u802	You can't replicate, I have to warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u803	Why can't I?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u804	Because you've completed your statement on the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u805	Do you want me to go back to the scene and ask for the word for the replica again?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u806	Yes, but I'm not going to give it to you, I'm going to give it to the president of the parliamentary group, because he has a right to do that, and you don't. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Not an offended parliamentary group, but all MPs of the SPS and radicals, each individual. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u807	I feel like a messenger offended. Each MP individually.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u808	And who's on their behalf?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u809	Here, I can do it for myself, anyone in my name, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u810	I'm taking away your word for the replica, and I'm asking you to leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u811	You can turn off my microphone, but you can't take away my line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u812	When you're looking, you're looking for a commercial.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u813	Do you want me to look from a place or from here to look?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u814	From the scene, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u815	All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u816	I will read to you article 100: "If offensive expressions refer to the parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the President of the Parliament Group has the right to reply." So I can't give it to you. Since Mr Tomislav Nikolic did not claim the right to reply, the word has an MP, Mr. Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u817	By abolishing the Information Act, all you want is to release the media to defile the opposition, because only you have control over all the media and that lies and lies are not answered. Since most people do not know where Bujanovac is, let alone where Trnovac, Luciane, Levosoje and Lompardinca are, let them serve you an example and also a question - whether, God forbid, Belgrade is attacked, if your bombs and grenades fall into Miljakovic, Rakovica and Bezanija. Secondly, Mr Batic, and Mr. Chairman, said that I had told a lie that a frontal attack on Bujanovac had been carried out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u818	Sir, I must really warn you for the third time on the same subject, you report every half hour or so.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u819	It's not the same subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u820	Please stick to the questions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u821	This is on the agenda and it's about information.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u822	The situation in southern Serbia is not on the agenda and I ask you to return to the topic of the agenda, which is the Information Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u823	Mr. Chairman, there's a stenogram of what I said and it's nice to say that after Mr. Covic left Bujanovac, Bujanovac was attacked. I didn't mention the attack was frontal. Just laugh. If information is nakaradical, explain the term - Presevo Valley. The term was imposed by KFOR and terrorists to invent a special territorial continent, which needs to determine a special status and then separate it from Serbia. No one in Pcinj County heard of Presevo Valley until three months ago. Are we going to hear in two months that there's a Medvedji Valley, which you're also preparing for special status?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u824	Last time I warn you, before you take away your words, go back to the topic on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u825	Maybe it's an attack on Bujanovac for you. , just laugh, if the grenade falls, don't give God to Covic's press center, then you'll accuse me of knowing about the attack or ordering the same. [[Laughter in O.R.]] Gentlemen, your leaders, during the Serbian bombing, were under the skirt of Madeleine Albright, what they found there, I don't know, and what will you find now, when you hide at Powell's... You'll hear it very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u826	Mr. Janjic, although I have the impression that you're entertaining part of the MPs, I still have to take your word for it, because you've really gone too far. Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u827	You can take my word for it, because I have no reason to talk anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u828	A violation of the Rules of Procedure? Replic to your own MP? (He speaks to the MP Gordani Pop - Lazic, who asks for a word. ) (Gordana Pop-Lazic, from the scene: I have the right to a replica, looking for a replica regarding article 100. Rules of Procedure. I'd like to replicate to the lady. Which lady? Replication from 15 minutes ago? I'm sorry, I can't give you my word. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u829	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, defending the Information Act, defends the period of our history when honor and dignity were defended in Serbia. Why did the law aim to preserve a minimum of dignity for every man - the dynamics and speed of obtaining justification for pronounced nebuloses forced journalists, publishers, to place different prices on man. The abolition of the law opens the door to all desires, that gossip, untrueness, can be advertised in one easy and profitable way. Today in our country, the means of information have taken over only the other side of the world, and the ovations remain the same. Nothing changes compared to the previous editors we worked against. The information has been designed and already transformed according to the ideas of the Western Alliance, but without responsibility. The first and second phase of the information system in our country is presented in a manner - what do you Serbs know about this science? I guess it's us who know everything, and we need to educate you better, and that's when it's all over. Our repeaters, our facilities, everything that represented and only - "I" of the information system was destroyed, burned and destroyed. I'm surprised that no one has ever defended any of our journalists as an act of goodwill or in any other way stood out. Today in the world of information, when we pulled out our antennas, strange ideas happen. There are no more radio stations on Fruszko Gora, and why are they heard? Foreign reporters tend to take precedence. Well, that's what our DOS and journalists are looking at now. Daily papers, they spend their contents on the former regime, and what to do today or tomorrow, that's not a word. I guess that'll be one part of our history, too. We'll hold on to it as a people. I'll vote against the Public Information Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u830	The People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic has the word, followed by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. (From the hall is heard tossing of the MPs: we have no quorum, establish quorum. To determine the quorum? We're going to find the quorum. I'm asking the service to call the MPs just in case, and now let's go to the quorum. Please insert the cards into your MPs. It's hard to determine the quorum when MPs come in all the time. I'm asking you to take your seats, so we can determine if we have a quorum to work with. I'm asking the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working on this agenda point. As I was saying, the word has a Parliamentarian named Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u831	Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the parliamentary obstruction of DOS MPs, because of 176 MPs, there are regular 50 or 60 in the O.R., and the others are somewhere and having fun, they spend their time differently, so we have frequent interruptions of this session because we don't have quorum. A few DOS MPs throws "the theme" and "time," and I suggest you learn a few more words, that's not so hard, just practice a little bit. A single daily newspaper, seven, eight television stations, and probably a dozen radio stations is coming out in Nis. Mr Batic, Mr. Zarko Korac, leaders of other political parties such as Perisic, Djindjic and others, were visiting. During that time, I listened to all things and none of these media, nor the editor-in-chief and responsible were punished, and the Public Information Act applied. Mrs. Požega says the objectives of the law were to keep the information timely, objective, impartial, but, she says, in the application of the law, it was not such a case, but the media were punished for such work. Just because you think it wasn't such a case doesn't mean that the law is bad, but that the application was bad. I'm going to tell you something that, in this case alone, needs to be kept by the Public Information Act. In Nis a few years ago, a paper published in the daily "Niška novine" published an article saying that then, 16 years ago, there was a baby replacement at the maternity ward and that now a 16-year-old girl is being guarded by people who are not her parents. It says the full name and name of that girl, the name of her parents, and the name of those who think they're parents. After that comes the answer, and then again and again, the whole felton continues. Imagine how that girl felt, how she's feeling right now, whether and now she suspects it's her natural parents or whether it's the parents who adopted her. To make evil worse, no one answered for it. If the journalist had checked the information, and he had time, he wouldn't have published something like that. It's completely declassified now that she's suing these journalists, that she's going through her regular procedure and regularly. Before the NATO aggression itself in the Daily Telegraph, an article is published -- "What to take to the atomic shelter? "Then the citizens are afraid, because they won't leave the shelter for six months, so they say, bring the mask to protect you from toxic gases and radioactive radiation, bring food for six months, bring water, etc. Sir, you're already in your age when you can learn another word. All that time, the Information Act was only applied to the most drastic cases. If it was a threat to freedom of expression, then someone here really doesn't understand something. I couldn't figure out that someone was making such a lie and that's why nobody's answering. Now I assume that, after the announcement of the new Minister of Information, some media in Nis will be shut down, they will be shut down, and during the entire period of application of this law there has been no such thing. In the end, today I often see in this assembly hall of Zoran Zivkovic, the current minister of the federal police and his wife, who I hear is the secretary of the Legislative Secretariat. Maybe that's why this law wasn't done well, because what you had best and the smartest among you, now he's the minister of police. I expect him to bring the children here these days. It's little more than him and his wife. They should all come here. Maybe they help you build a good information law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u832	Thank you. There is a word from MP Zlatan Jovanovic, and the next is the folk MP Gorana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u833	Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of this proposal, paragraph 3 reads: "the application of the relevant provisions of this law, to the adoption of a new law, relating to the way freedoms and rights are exercised in the field of public information and the conduct of the register of public votes". This is just saying and proving what the SRS MPs were insisting yesterday that the current government is not ready to exercise power. The story is repeated, one law is abolished, and the other is not prepared. Now, even if you hadn't promised the people change overnight, you had four full moons and you could have passed more than that nine-member amnesty bill in those four months. Either you are unable to exercise power or you are not yet aware that you are exercising power. You're proposing to abolish a good law, and in return you offer nothing. I would like the legislator of this law to explain to us how the honorable and honest citizens of this country will be protected from defamation, lies and misinformation which, until the adoption of the Law on Information in 1998, are daily placed from most of the media, especially now opposition daily papers. They say the publication of disinformation is the same as when a sack of feathers was spilled from the top of Belgrade. Denying misinformation is the same as collecting all feathers in Belgrade. Gentlemen of the government, or government, explain to the citizens of Serbia that these feathers will be collected in the next period, when this law is abolished. On the other hand, the fact is that the media in Serbia are largely under the control of the current government today and that everyone is in favour of the current government. The minister said it was media dark in the past. Let me remind you, in that media darkness, most of the daily papers and the vast majority of the electronic media in Serbia were controlled by the then opposition and today's authorities. Today, when Serbia is ruled by democracy, there is no opposition list, there is no opposition media. They're all under the control of the government. However, I am afraid that the support you have today from the media will be very soon left if you continue to do as you have done so far, as you have done in the previous four months, and that very soon you will return this 1998 law to this assembly and to Serbia's public and political life. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, by abolishing the Information Act, you today end the responsibility of the media, editors and journalists for the work they do, which has an extraordinary impact on the overall life of our society. I have to, in the end, take the time, since I have time for Mrs. Požega to do the truth, say a few sentences. First, Požega TV is not an independent television and it wasn't even when this event happened. Požega TV is a public enterprise, local. So, under the control of the local government. Then she was in power, so-called. Together coalition, today I don't know who it is. And then, and today, that television should serve the interests of all the citizens of Požega, and not even then, and today it does not. Second, on the same day that this event took place in Pozega, the democracy the lady speaks of... Please stick to the agenda. )......................................................................................................... literally demolled the premises of the SRS Municipal Committee in Požega, although neither the inspector who was there nor Minister Markovic belonged to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u834	The word is Gordana Pop-Lazic, a folk letter. The next is Srboljub Zivanovic, a folk MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u835	Dear lady, "an ambassador" in Serbian means a letter. I am a People's MP. When I was a minister, they spoke to me with Madam Minister. The Minister may be Mr Batic's wife. But let's get to the agenda. Gentlemen, I remind you once again of your program. The first day of the new Assembly to put off the current Information Act. Why don't you put it out of force? You didn't put him out of control. We haven't had a chance to see this bill in the history of our legislation. Here, there's a professor here from law school, so let's take a word and let them say if anyone has ever seen them change and supplement some law passed in this form. I didn't get a chance to see that. In Article 1, you say it ceases to apply the Public Information Act. In Article 2, I interpret - "It is envisaged that until the law enters into force that the way freedoms and rights in the field of public information will be governed by the provisions of the law that are repealed." There's not a single chapter in the Public Information Act called this. In Article 3, you say that the provisions of the law that are repealed, relating to the establishment, registration and termination of public votes, will apply to the adoption of a new law. There's no such chapter in that law. There is no, gentlemen, that lawyer who will understand from the proposed text of the bill which provisions of the law remain in force and which cease to apply. I want to remind you, it's a little comical, but Mladjan Dinkic, in the magazine "Today", on February 3rd and 4th, says - he'll sue reporters, I guess, this daily "Today", because of the incorrect data that two tons of gold has been exported from the New Sad branch, and in fact only 13 kilograms have been transferred. I ask you to pass it on to him, if he hasn't sued until now, let him not sue, because we don't know who will and how to judge. Don't let a man get upset about it. It was more normal to propose a new law on public information, if you think this one wasn't good or someone told you it wasn't good. It was to expect you to do something like that, but you gentlemen have nothing to blame this law for, so you probably don't suggest a new one. Everything you do, you do obviously out of ignorance or on purpose, to create confusion, because in the conditions of confusion, you're doing the best you can. In the most imprecise way, as if the bill was prepared by a Gresser, I apologize to the Gresers, and I go to them when they need to fix my car or something, from home appliances, but I expect the Minister of Justice to know how to write a bill, and that's why I'm saying this. I'd like to hear from Mr. Batic if he's ever met with a law like this in his legal practice. You're saying in your explanation that by putting out of force the Public Information Act, you're going to respect the demand of the highest public. By the way, the word to honor, I must also warn you, in Serbian there is no such thing as I'm gonna skip this part so you don't warn me on time, but I'm tired of it, but I feel offended by the president who claims that we who can't say everything we have to say about one law is unintelligent, I don't want to question my intelligence based on the president's conclusion, but (let's respect that, too. [[Training from bench: No Greser.]] I'd like to remind you of article 46. The Constitution, which states in paragraph 5, is to guarantee the right to correct a published incorrect notification that violates someone's right or interest, as well as the right to compensation for moral and material damage caused on this basis. The law requires this constitutional right to protect. What law protects this constitutional right if it does not protect it, say, the Public Information Act?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u836	I'll remind you in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u837	Thank you, ma'am, for reminding me, that's all you do. Because you gentlemen call yourselves Democrats doesn't mean that you are. Works speak, but not say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u838	I'll give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u839	Thank you so much for reminding me, here I am. I mean, they're not watching what you're saying, they're watching what you're doing. It's the only way to figure out what's coming for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u840	Thank you very much. The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, and the next is Dragan Sormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u841	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we Serbian radicals, like you, are firmly defined for the promotion of free and open media in us and in the whole world. Today, more than 2,500 public votes are registered in Serbia, which, without censorship and pressure, have the freedom to truly inform the public about all the events. The real expansion of the media has been recorded precisely in recent years, and these expansions could not be without full freedom in their establishment and work. It is known how and how much media influences the awareness and form of public opinion, as well as that the media industry is increasingly less informed about the events, and is increasingly seeking to produce events according to the needs of those ordering them. The freedom of the media was restricted only by the freedom and rights of those whose work and operation the media informs, freedoms and rights to which the information is intended. This law affirms freedom of information and clearly places responsibility on those who have not abused freedom so far. The penalties for irresponsible conduct provided for did not constitute any obstacle to further work. Those who took the information as more than just publishing newspapers, making radio and TV shows, and thus tried to hide what was not their job, contrary to the interests of profession, citizens and states, could not continue with such activities. Various international organisations, institutions and associations are constantly concerned about the state of public information in our country. I admit that I am delighted with the concern, thinking and the hope that the sphere of information in Serbia can be better and different from that of positive legal acts in our country, but believe me and I are a little concerned and amazed by the double arches that are resorting to the fight to establish alleged democratic relations in all parts of the world. It is interesting that the most significant provisions of the Public Information Act are inspired precisely by the protection of human rights and freedoms, which you speak of so much, and you very little respect for them, and that the standards on responsible information are very similar to those of those countries from which they are most often accused and come, with the level of penalties for the violations of certain members of the law not nearly as high as is provided for by your positive laws. If that's where we're wrong, we'll admit it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u842	The word has a folk MP Dragan Šormaz, and the next is a folk MP, Bojana Aleksic. Since MP Dragan Shormaz has given up, please Bojana Aleksic, has given up the same. The word is given by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic. The word has the People's MP Anita Beretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u843	About the role and responsibility of the media for the past period, I think we should really sit here longer and, of course, have completely different opinions, that's clear. What started out as a war-hoc machine, designed in the heads of the then ruling coalition, in fact the first lonely party, and after the red-black coalition, it was applied its invention and operationally developed in major state media, among which the RTS programme of course had no match. Since the role and position of the small, local, varroski is mentioned here several times, as my fellow Member from Somboro said, where I come from, therefore these small, local media, which mainly carried the burden of the situation and were struck by the Information Act, simply so that it does not remain indeterminate whether the Information Act should exist at all after its abolition or not, it is a subject for itself, but what should be arranged for it, it is well-intentioned quite clear. The least that the law itself needs to be regulated is what was arranged for this, which is hidden beneath the grain, so direct editorial policy and this is the law that was directed at those media that gave a completely different picture of reality from RTS, and since on major television, or impact informational emissions, everything except information, was an alternative reality, let the illusion that we all wanted to live in that Serbia that we looked at in the RTS log, so of course citizens simply sought information from all those media that at least objectively informed. The media primarily includes local houses. I come from one. I'm very short there, a little over half a year. It's about the Sombor Information Centre, which under its wing recently had a radio station, a newspaper and a Sunday paper. And for small townships, according to my fellow Somboro MP, for small environments, and especially printed leaves, are tradition. The Sombor newspaper has been coming out for over two decades. They go out once a week. It's a small information house that's just been happily seen by a guest once a week in the Somborac house. They've been sued twice under the Information Act. Taking into account the size of the budget of a local media house, whether it's a newspaper or a radio, then those legal penalties, when applied, are simply expected to freeze by saying and collecting these fines and the information house itself. If the irony of the law itself and its application to the Sombor newspaper were greater, the first lawsuit he filed, he actually launched an employee in the house itself. It's actually a precedent, so that same man would later appear as the editor-in-chief of phantom television, so-called. STV, the Somborians called it "The Rose", a television that won a month and a half in the middle of the campaign ahead of this election. I wonder, I say, without permission, with the ultimate equipment that went missing overnight after she was shut down. The second sentence was given after the process, which is exactly my colleague, whose launch was also attended by my colleague, and it would simply be right now that, given our responsibility to the Sombors and the people of the region and beyond, we still say who is and how he represented the interests of the citizens of our cities, from our midst. The impact on the Sombor Information Centre was extremely dangerous and literally threatened to survive, as the functioning was questioned by the enormous punishment that was imposed. As for the initiation of court proceedings... (President: Please hold your peace.) Time. )......................................................................................................... And giving sentences and some other charges, behind some other political options, believe that I have examples for that, too. I don't want to abuse time, but some judges have proven very honorable by refusing some lawsuits or speaking out in favor of the other side.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u844	Mr. Ivkovic called first, so let's see what's going on, replica, Rules of Procedure, what? Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u845	A respected colleague, speaking in a pervasive sense about the red-black coalition, essentially gave recognition to the democratic process of information by 24 September, as she made it clear and loud to everyone here in the hall that the media who had no problems were the views of the opposition at the time and that the media were according to its assessment, who were working under the control of the then government. She said so and therefore it is clear why many of the transfers from the Republic Parliament were not even seen, because people could read in opposition newspapers what opposition MPs were saying, and the positional ones, what the government said. Unfortunately, here is the result of why the transfer from this assembly is so much, and we know that it is viewed by the number of phone calls, for information about southern Serbia. It is seen because in today's media and the press you have nothing the opposition MPs say, we simply have one-minded, one-party media. I have to say one black forecast, that I expect, since the government has become an RTS funder since today, that it will probably be your decision from tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, that there will be no transfer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u846	Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u847	Mr. President, in your absence, the lady who replaced you, she made a mistake announcing our predecessor, whom I now replicate and not only grammatically, should have called her representative. The lady or the lady thinks this is a Croatian Parliament. The fact that you called the coalition a red-and-black coalition with the Socialists and the JUL is not an insult to me. I guess that's black for radicals. It would offend me if you thought we were the red ones. If it's a measure for you whether a fascist or not, that war-striking campaign we've been involved in, then I'm proud to be you and a fascist. It was the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, the only war in which we participated officially, as members of the ruling coalition. You might wish we hadn't defended ourselves at all. I don't like that we stopped defending ourselves, but it was stronger than me. There was one of the same people’s congregations, in which most of the votes could have been voted. Most of the SPS's votes, JUL's, have stopped defence of Kosovo and Metohija, and hence all this misfortune, which is happening to us here, but that is why you cannot accuse Slobodan Milosevic. He pushed the messengers to accept it. I'm only afraid that if you continue to give us messages sent by the mayor of Osijek, this assembly will turn into a assembly of support for Croatian democracy. So I ask that the more often you go out for a pay phone and the more often you mention Serbian radicals. I haven't had the pleasure of verbalizing myself from this pay phone with those who celebrate the Croats. I also expected from your colleague, who was going out for the pay phone today, it's true that she looks nice, at my age I say she still looks nice, and someone would say she looked nice, it's true that her voice was nice, but the other day on TV, I heard her say, "The Croat brothers excitedly welcomed us, we had 11 shows, and if there was time, we'd have another 10 or 20." I was happy to watch her interview, but then I had to turn off the TV, and I couldn't watch it anymore. Don't forget, they've done us a lot of bad things. As much as you do not love Slobodan Milosevic or Vojislav Seselj, or socialists, radicals, JUL, do not leave your people. I don't even know what people you belong to, but don't leave your people behind. This nation, Serbian, has not attacked anyone in all these wars, has defended itself exclusively. In particular, don't bring up the war for the defence of Kosovo and Metohija. And I also found something in common with Mr. Korać several years ago on a television show. We both attacked Milosevic over the war. The one who started the wars in the first place, and me who stopped defending himself. If there's anything in common between you and me, it's that we both resent war in Kosovo and Metohija. I resent that we stopped defending ourselves, and you resent... (President: Time. ..that we took part in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u848	Did you mention by name? So, what's the replica in? I can't give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u849	Since there's a license for "S" TV.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u850	I cannot give you my word, only the president of the parliamentary group, if the parliamentary group is offended. It has nothing to do with the replica. Sign up for a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u851	Mr. President, I have been mentioned twice in the discussion of my colleague, the distinguished fellow citizens of Somboro, Mrs. Anita Beretic, who has brought forth a series of untruths about me. First, she said I damaged the newspaper budget in which she was the director, the chairman of the board of directors, and now she's the director of that house's radio. To the truth, it is a very damaged house, its budget very state-of-the-art, but thanks to the management of this board of directors, who sent both directors and editor-in-chief on the cost of the Information House in London, Vienna for education. In particular, going to Osijek, talks with Nenada Canka, Mayor Somborski and in the presence of Mrs Anita Beretic in the best light can indicate where the money she spoke of here. So, in order to get to know the public of Somboro and Somborac who he represented, I had to say this, but also that it was very terrible to present such insinuations and lies, because it was the punishment that the Information House paid before the law was passed in 1998, and the misdemeanor procedure that I received against their defamation information houses took place in 97. So it's obvious that this is about insinuation and that Mrs Anita was trying to pass on something that wasn't true. As far as the fine paid by the information house where Mrs Anita is now the director, it is a minimum penalty for what the editor-in-chief and responsible wrote in that newspaper. Namely, it said that I was the mentor of events and that I caused the lynch, attended by Nenad Canak, Dragan Veselinov and other coalition partners of the then-Vojvodin Coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u852	Please, let's finish this cycle of replicas, we'll go to the new one. Do you agree? Thank you. The People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u853	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm going to give you one clue. With a large majority of MPs, and I must admit that in these two days, the DOS MP who came out and said what he said was in the process. I have been confident these two days that we are holding an extraordinary session of the Assembly at the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of the legal projects that the same government has submitted. The same DOS MP, though I don't know which of the 18 political options belong, maybe he'll say it later, says he's here at the demonstration.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u854	We'll get to the agenda point. Lead the controversy with the People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u855	If only you would listen carefully, you would understand what this is all about. Since you and I, too -- you see, we believe that this is legal projects, you and I, Mr. President, are being denied by this MP who says it's a demonstration of everything old and obviously according to that principle -- the Cartagena must fall, the Cartagena will burn. The Assembly burned down, the RTS building burned down. The donors on the outside will give money, we'll build everything new, and since there are a lot of old communists in line with DOS, they'll obviously build a new society and a new man. Let me get back to the law, Mr. President, because the law really needs to be talked about, not the decomposition. Give that observation, as well as criticism, to your MPs. This is about the law. It's the third law in these two days which is the law on amendments to the old laws, in fact, the law on the abolition of laws. I said yesterday, and I repeat now, you are truly consistent in your inconsistencies. The third law in which the Government amends its law with legal amendments. We got the first version of February 1st and four points. We've got the amendments, and now we've got the law at two points. We'll probably end this law so the Justice Minister, to whom this topic is obviously unknown, doesn't deliver a new amendment, so we'll have a half-point law. To complete this law and to support your thesis on your consistency, on inconsistency, I will say that one law has been passed under the press of NGOs, the other law has been passed under the press, through amendments, by unions. And here's the third one under the press you're changing again. I'll read your explanation. Putting aside the Law on Public Information will honour the demands of the highest public, as well as the public's votes. That's what this is about. For none of these three laws you've abolished, you've passed new laws. You don't ask for 100 days. One says six months, the other says what in three months. Batic, a crafty fox, an old 93th MP doesn't even promise that. He knows he doesn't have to promise anything. And what you'd promise. He promised DOS in an election campaign. He doesn't have to do anything now. We'll only get three laws when this expert government remembers it might be really expert, so it asks someone how to pass new laws, so we'll have them in the congregation procedure. So, we've got a press release. By October 5th, we all witnessed that there were regime papers and so on. independent sheets. Right now, Chancellor Djindjic, by force of opportunity, a vismajor and no man challenged by the post and social worker. All the leaves are now regimeal, all the leaves write the same. Why is Djindjic a social worker? Every citizen frees every reader to buy two copies of newspapers a day to know both sides. It's enough to buy a newspaper and he'll see that he doesn't even know how nice he is now under DOS rule. I believe that as much as next week or perhaps later, I am living in that hope, that since you only know that you are passing law enforcement laws, that you will pass a bill which, what has been done by the Assembly, has been done by the will of the majority of the SPS and of the JUL, through the will of the Members of the SPS, the Coalition of Vojvodina and the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, has been abolished by the Parliament's decision of the last term calling for the adoption of the Ahtisaari - Chernomidin plan. None of the MPs will be able to talk about Bujanovac, Presevo anymore, because by such a decision, Members of Parliament, we will recover both Kosovo and Metohija, and we must, and that is your task.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u856	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u857	Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of debate tonight about the Law on Public Media and what it contains and what it does. How important the truthfulness of the information is, I'll only give you on one case, which comes from a time when the law was not passed. In particular, as of 30 April 1998, and since I remember this information well, I can inform some MPs that we from the SRS do not yet suffer from amnesia, and in particular the information "Study B", published by him on his information show, starting at 22 hours, where the Contact Group and the International Community are quoted as deciding to reintroduce international sanctions to Yugoslavia. Later, it turned out that at the time of the announcement of the news, the Contact Group had not yet completed its meeting. Now let's go back to this time today, when all the media are writing the same, all the media are reporting the same, and one such similar information is being placed, how much panic and damage would it cause among our citizens? By abolishing this law, which has been passed because of this information, responsibility, both moral and material, of those who publish such information, and hence in Serbia comes to a total informative darkness, where the truth no longer matters and where it can write and publish anything it wants, whether it is true or not. At the very least, it's amazing why DOS now, when it controls all the media, and so on. State, former regime, and so on. independent, passed such a law, a law that has not been applied for a long time, so they have probably proved themselves that the government is variable and that, although the law is not being applied at this time, it may later, when the government changes, their leaders, who publish different lies through their newspapers, call on that same criminal and material responsibility for the placement of such information. And today we are aware that some media abuse the non-application of this law and even place news that international sanctions are being re-introduced to Yugoslavia if we do not deliver Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague. I still haven't heard from any particular official, no Western Europe, no U.S.A., to confirm that. By abolishing this law, there will be a total informative darkness, where the truth will not matter and where we can say good night to her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u858	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u859	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I will try to reduce my exposure to time shorter than five minutes allowed. I just want to say that it is obvious that certain political figures sitting in this House have not yet realized that the policy of aggressive primitiveism has absolutely gone from our political scene, that people no longer want to support such a policy based on lies and demagogy. I see the fact about that in a tirade that some MPs are trying to knowingly drag the discussion off the subject of which today's Assembly is also called. I would like to remind my fellow Members, who, in such a way, want to distract and draw attention to the time, that today the subject - is to change the Law on Public Information. Why this law ever existed in our legal system should be thanked to the political group that we found here. The Law on Public Information could only have a few members, which is that public information is free and independent, and the conditions for enrolment in the register of public texts can also be a sublegal act, which would be further elaborated by a Company Act. The current Company Act has such provisions, which are not worthy of the civilization's achievements and democratic achievements of modern countries. The previous law only declared freedom and the independence of the media, but in further provisions it brought that freedom down to the free dictatorship of the regime, which dictated on all those media it financed, and tried to shut down all those media that wanted to, through free words, freely and truthfully inform their citizens. The provisions of the Law on Public Information, which are prescribed to give the penalty procedure, to establish responsibility for the lie given in public information, are based on the presumption of guilt, not on the presumption of innocence, which is a civilization's achievement. The procedure prescribed by this law, in the provisions now put out of effect, stipulates that the infringement procedure for the determination of liability for untrue information must be terminated within 24 hours from the date of receipt of the call. So all those who had told the truth had to come under the influence of this law, with the aim of giving them legal penalties, with a further goal, to keep such media out of the public and to absolutely shut down. We were absolutely witnessing how the regime shut down the media -- where it couldn't shut down because the people stood up to defend these free and independent media, as it happened in Nis, there was also another way to eliminate this truth from the public. An example to you is Mr. Curuvija, who, on Easter, in the course of 1999, was removed in the most harsh way. In view of this situation, the legal application of the Public Information Act is absolutely necessary to stop the application of the provisions governing legal penalties, which prescribe the unequal status of participants in the procedure before the law, which exclude the possibility of any regime and any political power affecting the free and publicly spoken word. We've had multiple misdemeanor proceedings in Nis based on the Public Information Act. That's why the lie, which was told here at the pay phone, was that no media in Nis was in the process and that no one was punished. "The People's Newspaper" was only punished for bringing the truth news that Mr. Zoran Arangelovic, then CEO of the tobacco industry - Nis, received 100,000 dinars a month. That's what I'm talking about a year and a half ago, and you can figure out for yourself how much of his income was a month. Of course, the citizens of Nis had an interest in being informed truthfully and precisely about the incomes of our fellow citizens, who used to demagogue the people, sing songs about the bright future, about the high standard, about the fast tracks and the like. To make evil even bigger, the proceedings against these independent media were attended by judges who were working under the dictatorship of the then Minister of Information. One judge took a two-and-a-half-hour break to get a phone call to the minister at the time, who was supposed to explain to him -- how to condemn one of the media, who was tried for public speaking, on Live. The Constitutional Court has put out of force the provisions of this law, so this Assembly also has an obligation to eliminate the provisions of the Public Information Act from the legal order, and that is our obligation, to declare the law by which these provisions are put out of force. That is why I call on the MPs to support the Law amending the Law on Public Information, because there is no objection here that they are not protected citizens, because there is also criminal - legal protection for slander and falsehood done through public media, and there is also civil - legal protection for the compensation of non-proprietary or material damage that the citizens have suffered. Therefore, such a law can be absolutely applied in the legal order.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u860	The word is made by MP Rajko Baralic, then by Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u861	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it's always one point at a time. Thank you for the intervention. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, esteemed journalists, Toma Nikolic, MP, acting as president of the Parliament Club, spoke in a way that is not appropriate about the nationality of the MP. It's not right and it's not right, it's dealing with the Rules of Procedure and a few other things. I think the chairman should warn the MPs when they do so. What I came forward for was something completely different, and it doesn't seem to bother me, on the contrary, I find my colleague Anita's very sympathetic name, but she has told a lie in her address to this House. Among other things, she said that phantom TV "S" was established without any permits or papers, and I have here a document - the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Federal Government, the Federal Ministry of Telecommunications, the number etc. I don't want to bother you with that. STV network information publishing company. The solution - approving the use of the 50th television channel at the Ovčar site starting on 5.10.2000, with the following parameters, frequencies, etc. Dear gentlemen, since you're talking about legality here today, since you're always talking about it, I want to inform you and take the opportunity to thank my esteemed colleague Anita for the remarks she's given me. DOS's government in Chačka on 7 October this year broke television and study channel TV "S" with drills and legs, and took over equipment worth several hundred thousand marks, these days that prove it in court. Since Mr Batic, as minister of justice, will do everything to ensure that the judiciary is independent, I know that the verdict will arrive a little later, but that the equipment will be returned, compensated for the loss of profits, due to commercial transactions and marketing, and some of the defendants of this act will have to do something else about it to say and to respond. So it's not all like it seems at first sight. I think what we're talking about today, about the information law that's being abolished, may, in some ways, bother you. I don't want to give you ideas, it costs, of course. I would like to tell dear Mrs. Gorica Mojovic, that while I was still wearing a red pioneer scarf, and that was a long time ago, you were shot from Pozharec into various alliances of socialist youth, committees and other things, never say ever, because continuity is a thing that can be proved in one way or another, but you are still me and so sweet.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u862	You're not mentioned and you're not misread, name and last name? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u863	I wouldn't lie to you, Mr. President, I've been mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was wondering how Velja Ilic would win so many votes in Chačka, but now it's clear to me. I didn't blame the lady for her nationality, but she's a Serbian as far as I know. I couldn't insult her in any way by nationality, but I resented what she said about this pay phone, and I'd resent it for my brother's born, even though no one could ever speak from my family. So, I resented the fact that our work against the aggressors called it "war cooze," and I tied it up to Osijek and Osijek Mayor because she really went there the other day with Nenado Canka and then came here for a pay phone to say that we were "war thugs". That's the connection I made and that's obvious. I didn't mean anything about national belongings.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u864	A member of the government, Mr. Zarko Korac, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u865	I'm sorry, gentlemen, I don't want to take up your time, but since unfortunately the Serbian government has also fallen into dealing with the problems of the RTS robbery, I want to assure you that when it comes to channel "S", it is currently under financial inspection. It is about the extensive equipment that has been purchased in China, it is not known under what conditions, whether it has been paid, where it is and I assure you, gentlemen of the MPs, that you will soon have a detailed report on this great financial malfeasance because it seems so. I would expect that out of respect for this assembly, at least TV "S" and its equipment are not mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u866	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. You didn't answer when this next speaker was, please don't call Mr. Baralic. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u867	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'm officially informing you that the robbery of the equipment of channel "S" in Cacca is located in Cacak TV, controlled by the DOS government, so you can find it there.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u868	The People's MP Mr. Mircic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u869	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, for two days now, this assembly has been working for this parliament in an extraordinary session and discussions on these five points would have been simplified to the following -- most in this assembly claim that obstruction is a real minority -- opposition. The opposition's primary task is to discuss, give suggestions and point to any failures made by the lawmaker, and in this case it is the Serbian government. The opposition, and especially for us Serbian radicals in these past two days, was not the problem. They had a dilemma about how and how to defend the laws that began, at the beginning of their work, the obviously incompetent government proposed. Here, this is the government's fifth legislative proposal, not counting on the first amnesty proposal, where at least the minister has agreed to propose one law in five six members. All the other laws come down to the minister's promise, if we put out of force the previous law, we promise, in six months we'll make a new one. Or, as the finance minister said, the man swore, he's not going to take the oath so lightly, he says-- in three months' time, a new law. What kind of government is that? What kind of experts are these? What are they doing? They're cheating on us. They simply put themselves in a position that no government has ever been in. The government is blackmailing Parliament. Simply, the blackmail is that -- if you're good, if you adopt only one point of the proposed law, that the previous law be abolished, and that, in part or a few members of the previous law apply to the adoption of a new one, then they'll be good enough to serve us a new proposal in this home, their proposal. We can't lose time because of one incompetent government. Here, and this bill. Just one point -- it's put out of force by the previous law. He didn't even settle for a government official to say when the new bill would be on the agenda? Will there ever be one? What kind of government will rule, literally, in lawlessness? You've done enough, gentlemen, you've done it. You need to get used to the responsibility of the government lying on you. You have to force your ministers, I'm telling the congregation's majority to do this, that all those promises you made to the citizens of Serbia are fulfilled, not to tell stories and make promises easy. Is it a problem to make a bill, propose that draft, and then make some adjustments? Or maybe you're waiting for those laws, I'm talking about members of the government, to bring you the finished ones on the table of that phantom group of G17? Or maybe it's another reason. Perhaps you're waiting for the drafts of the law to arrive from abroad. Say it out loud. You know, the privatisation law, why would it be a shame to report to the public -- we wait for Mr. Labus, when he comes from a meeting abroad, he'll bring us a bill. The proposal will shape Dinkic. Of course, he'll be wearing a sock on his head, but he's like that. Don't hesitate to deceive the public. Don't make a minority obstruction, and it's illogical that a minority can cause obstruction, but you're incompetent to the government at the beginning. The fact that you can't agree within the coalition, that's your problem. The problem must not be felt by this parliament, especially by the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's now a minute to ten or, from this corner, ten hours. We have another speaker and we have amendments that actually existed because they were accepted by the government and the board, and they become an integral part of the proposal. I suggest we finish this. For all of this, we need 10 minutes at the most. Are you looking for a decision not to be after the complaint? If you're looking for a decision to extend the work, please determine the quorum. The MPs agree. Mr. Nikolic? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: - Who asks me? ) So that there would be no objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. He has the word Mr. Bozidar Vucurovic, the last registered speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u871	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in these ten years of parliamentary experience, I've heard a lot of things and stuff. I'm from this pay phone, actually, and me and Mr. Batic were listening to bass from this pay phone. There was an MP who told us the bass. But until today, I haven't heard of anyone in this country being convicted for telling the truth. Here, that's what I heard for the first time tonight. So someone was convicted for telling the truth. The basic dilemma set by this law, which you are today, is to lie or not to lie. That law left you an option - to lie and pay, or to tell the truth and to continue with normal work. Those who choose to lie, it's normal to pay the fine. Well, I guess you'll be punishing those who lie. You're not going to let us, outside of this pay phone assembly, because we can tell a half-truth about it, but you're not going to let us speak and publish lies and not answer to anyone, are you? You remove the criminal provisions of this law, and you do not say who will and how will protect the integrity of man, the integrity of MPs, honor, dignity, what law? You'll say, Criminal Law. The criminal law certainly won't. He certainly won't, because against Mr. Batic, at the time of that empire, a criminal report for libel was filed, and until today he didn't appear in court. Criminal law and criminal judges have far more serious things to do than defamation. After all, this law that you are attacking today was, believe it or not, the best export business the Republic of Serbia has ever concluded. (Glasses - we believe. You write a lie, you go to the judge for crimes, he punishes you, and the money comes from America and goes to the budget. The budget then financed what this country needed. And the defense of the country, among other things. There isn't today, but there really isn't a single list in which you can read something that isn't uniform, which isn't written in any office, and unfortunately for us, this office isn't even in this country. I see my cousins are growing rapidly. I had one son yesterday, and today, as far as I've heard, there's at least 20 of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u872	No more registered speakers. Does a representative of the government want a final word? (After discussion in detail. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. Please insert your cards. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I put to the vote the draft law on the termination of the law on public information in principle. I find that he voted 131 against 47, the abstentions were not, five MPs voted. A total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment. Since the Government's amendment has been agreed by the committees responsible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment. Since the Government's amendment has been agreed by the committees responsible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment. Since the Government's amendment has been agreed by the committees responsible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The final word has a representative of the government, Mr Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u873	The Law on Public Information, adopted on 20 October 1998, was one of the dramatic examples of so-called The extraordinary legislation, and its motives were not only of political nature, but of political psychopathology. Dragon penalties have been imposed, unrecorded in modern European legislation, as if it were some kind of Hamurabi code or Ducadini law. I must remind you that the law amended the Law on Violences and imposed enormous criminal penalties for founders and publishers - 800,000 dinars. It was then a 60-year average salary in Serbia, only to show how high those penalties were. Of course, the editorials, the media have been given the most severe insults, the most severe accusations and threats, even the physical liquidation. One of those threats has been realized. Slavko Curuvija was killed. On the one hand, it was an unorthodox repression against the media, and on the other hand, by the regimeal media, under the rule of the then government, suffered by all those who otherwise thought of the unseen media terror. Many editors and journalists have been convicted. Nebojsa Ristic for a year only because he advocated freedom of press in Serbia. Journalists in Pozarevec were arrested, Miroslav Filipovic was sentenced to seven years in prison, threatened for several months with a law on the fight against terrorism, inspired solely by an attempt not to hear a public word. The fines spoken to independent media have exceeded the sum of 30 million dinars. Arrests, detentions, trials, beatings, killings, misdemeanors and criminal charges, private lawsuits, various penalties, impose on the villa, fines, harrassors, confiscation, confiscation of frequencies, confiscation of equipment, destruction and destruction of equipment, takeover of radio and television stations, obstruction of programs, ban on imports of repromaterials, roto paper and everything else, this is a repertoire, based on a valid Public Information Act, which served the former regime in an effort to falsify the truth, to falsify reality, because reality was not as it was heard through the regime media and their speakers such as Goran Matic, Ivan Markovic, or such journalistic sizes as Milanović, Komrakov, Hadzi-Antic or Cukic. To hide the truth, to cover up the shame and shame, to cover up the state and national betrayal, to tell and lie that integrity and sovereignty were preserved in Kosovo, to talk about high standards, big investment ventures, to simply forge the truth, so he needed this information law. Our people say -- it happened, it didn't happen again. That's why this nakaradic, retrograde, shameful law has to be abolished. I know many of you are sorry, but gentlemen, Tito has died.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-13-0.u874	Mr. Nikolic, I really can't give you my word. You don't have the right to a replica, you're not mentioned. Mr. Nikolic, I can't give you my word. You're not mentioned, you're not misread. We can do this for a really long time, but I can't give you a word, because you have no right. I can only ask you. I ask the People's Messengers to listen to me, and I ask you to listen to me. I know these situations suit you, and I'm guessing that these situations don't fit most of the MPs. I'm forced not to apply what the Rules of Procedure normally provides, which is a physical detachment from the pay phone, to interrupt the session and to continue it tomorrow at 10 in the morning. Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 158 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I inform the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Srđa Popovic, Dusan Prophetovic, Kosti Nikolic, Aleksandr Krstic, Ljubisa Maravic, Dusan Ilic, Dejan Mihajlov, Ljubo Slavkovic, Dusan Budišin. I am only taking the opportunity to ask the MPs to keep me informed of the prevention of attending the sittings, or the service of the National Assembly, not to inform me on the way, in the hallway, because I really can't remember who came to me, and then to record it as a legitimate absence. Or the desk service, or the phone. In any way, just not in the hallway, because then I can't keep track of it properly. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We're continuing our work. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Important Law on Public Information, I remind you that at yesterday's session we adopted the draft law in principle, we opened a review of the draft law in particular and concluded that the amendments of the Government became an integral part of the bill. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular?
