ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11531	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to the official record of the MPs who reported their presence, 163 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units, please. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Zaharija Trnavcevic, Srdjan Sikimić, Dragan Vukšić, Zoran Boskovic, Branislav Pomorički, Aleksandar Krstic, Goran Vesic, Milos Radivojčević, Branko Besevic, Dusan Tubić, Dragan Kovacevic and Mihajlo Jagodić. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-President, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: - Proposal for an amending law and additions to the Law on the Construction of Objects,(s) I remind you that at a session of 12 July 2001 we started a debate on amendments to Article 7 which, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Dragan Čolić and Veroljub Arsic. Before the session was interrupted due to the lack of quorum, the amendments' applicants -- Natasa Jovanovic and Dragan Colic -- participated in the debate on the amendment. We are continuing to discuss this amendment. Does the third applicant of the amendment want MP Veroljub Arsic? He's got the word, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11532	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the law is very restrictive. Article 7 proposes increasing the level of penalties for authorised persons who issue permits to build contrary to the legal rules. Already a fellow MP behind this speaker, while the debate was in principle, made a statement that the practice, in fact, was the price for a license that was obtained through the link - 1,000 marks. I believe that the amount of that punishment proposed by this law is low, given the possibility of abuse. That's why I suggested that the level of punishment increase.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11533	Anyone else answer for a word under this amendment? He has the word Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11534	This amendment should be accepted if there is indeed a will for the assembly majority to curb bribes and corruption in state bodies. Most often, the most massive form of corruption occurs at the level of local self-government, in services dealing with the issue of urban, construction and use permits. From municipality to municipality, these amounts can be very high. The practice of deliberately making it difficult and complicated is recorded, in order to bring people into a situation to resort to bribery to speed up something, so that even if they meet all the conditions that follow them, especially in this case referred to in Article 7, when it comes to the issue of urban, construction and use permits, without all the conditions being met. There should be order here in the local self-government's departments. You need to increase your sentence. There are fines here. I'm surprised that the creators of this legal project, who have so easily prescribed a three-year prison sentence if someone illegally builds an object or less of a time sentence if they disobey the decisions of the state authorities, and where there is a violation of the law by the competent state authorities, there is no prison sentence. Well, I guess it's a socially more dangerous feature where someone who works in the municipal authority of the administration issues a building, urban or useful permit without all the conditions being met, but when someone builds a house or a business facility on his own or on his own land. If there was any sense in being prosecuted, then it's by this article. Someone may say that punishing this member for acts or offences does not exclude criminal responsibility. In principle, he's right. In practice, however, the situation is quite different. Where criminal punishment occurs or punishment for an economic fingertip, every further prosecution ceases. It's not the beginning of a criminal prosecution. It's not a signal for prosecution. It's a matter of our judicial practice, that it's exhausted socially justified terms and reasons of punishment. You can't go any further. This is where the most severe punishment should be, not where a man raises himself and his family a roof over his head and there are no different conditions. His community doesn't go out to meet him. There are so many municipalities in Serbia that over the past ten years, perhaps, have not issued more than 20 or 30 plots for individual housing. It is therefore necessary to accept this amendment in order to seduce discipline in municipal authorities, in the bodies of local self-government. We have, even, cases that pay a bribe from 50 to 1,000 marks to issue a home number. The house number of municipalities gives even when the facility is not legally built. I said how much bribes are paid. It depends on the municipality, who is in power and what is the general position of local authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11535	Is anyone else looking for a word in this adjective? No, I don't. I put to the vote the amendments of Dragan Colic, Natasa Jovanovic and Veroljub Arsic. For 58, against 132 abstention one, two, a total of 193 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MPs Zlatan Jovanovic, Vitomir Plužarevic and Slobodan Janjic. The Government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Are the applicants of the amendment reporting for word? There's a word from MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11536	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7, in fact to the old 57. In Article 7, the words "100 - 10,000 dinars" are replaced by the words "5,000 - 20,000 dinars". The level of penalties must be so measured as to ensure the purpose of the punishment, given the widespread occurrence of abuse of the official position and corruption in the authorities of the administration. The amendment wants to ensure security, where local self-government technicians will suffer from a fine of 5,000 - 20,000 dinars when they issue permits that do not comply with the regulations, or where licences are contrary to plans. That was the case in almost every environment. Irregular construction has been recorded in Serbia, not since 10 years ago. The illegal construction began in Serbia in the '60s, when people began to build intensively, over the weekends settlements that were rising like mushrooms. Most of the weekends have been built without certain permits and documents, which have been working since they were built. They need to be legalized. Mostly locals, with the help of regional or urban construction institutions, allowed it, where they were. Where they were gone, wild construction was even more intense. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11537	Any of the amendment applicants come forward for a word? Here you go, Mr. Lamb.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11538	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the proposed Article 7, I asked to increase the fines for the responsible persons, so that the article 57 of the law states: "From 100-10 000 dinars, responsible official in the competent authority of the administration will be fined if: 1) verify the technical documentation which has been built against the urban permit (Article 9); 2) issue a building permit against the regulations (Article 27).; 3) issue a valid authorisation against regulations. Gentlemen, for the simplest violation of the citizens who raise the wood shed or some auxiliary facility, you've provided fines of hundreds of thousands of dinars, and you've even gone so far as to threaten them with a three-year sentence. For ordinary municipal officials who are under the direct authority of the president of municipalities and local officials, who must blindly carry out their orders, you have provided for some symbolic penalties and translated into marks - 300 marks. If it is known that for individual objects, project documentation of which is about 3% of the value of the facility, and if the facility is worth 10,000 thousand marks, let's say 30 million marks are the means that can be used for manipulation. That is, the one who issues the permit against these terms and conditions with the investor shares that money and no one is responsible. Instead of harshly sanctioning all those who prevent citizens from taking a speedy procedure and making it cheaper to obtain permits, and thus preventing wild construction, you provide for astronomical punishments for the citizens, and even prison sentences. For those of you who have kept a legacy in all the great cities and where abuses are the greatest you foresee such symbolic punishments, that they are ridiculous. I still think you're making this law because you're in power. Laws are made in years ahead. You'll be in power for a few more months, and after that, we'll be changing laws like this. You are not the basis for a long time, you should have predicted that this law is several years old and that when the government changes, it should be binding. You wanted to protect yourself with this, so you could do whatever you wanted, and it cost you 300 marks maximum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11539	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment, since MP Zlatan Jovanovic is not here? No, I don't. If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 55, against 136, a abstentioned one, did not vote four, out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petrovic. The Government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant amanamdne want a word? Here you go, Mr. Petrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11540	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, on the subject of the amendment I would like to point out the following. Article 27 of the Law on the Construction of Objects requires the applicant to submit applications to the competent authority of the Administration for the issue of a building permit. The request requires documentation to be submitted in order for the procedure to be taken into consideration. The same member is prescribed that the authority responsible for issuing the building permit is authorised within 15 days, and is required from the application, normally implying that the request fulfils the intended conditions. Article 57 provides for a criminal sentence for a responsible official in the competent authority of the administration, if he issues a building permit against regulations, which is quite fine. However, there is no penalty prescribed anywhere if a responsible official, within a legal period of 15 days, does not act on the request of the investor and gives him a building permit, if the conditions are met, or adopts a rejection decision unless the conditions are met. Therefore, I have proposed, by my amendment, the introduction of a criminal penalty for a responsible person in the competent authority of the administration if, within a prescribed period of 15 days, it does not issue a building permit, and assuming that the conditions have been met, or it does not provide a solution to the refusal of the requirements for non-compliance with the conditions. Normally, by reason of which such a solution is made. It is a strange explanation by the government that the amendment should not be accepted, because it explains that respect is provided by a two-stage manner, and the regulations relating to state administration have been regulated by the control of the work of state authorities, among other things, by officials working on works of building permits. It is true that the General Administrative Procedure Act is regulated if the first-degree body does not act within the prescribed time limit, that the party should be governed by the so-called so-called procedure. the silence of the administration or the silence of the administration may address the second-degree body as if its request had been rejected, and it is indisputable that there is a regulation to control the work of the state authorities and its officials. However, the government's explanation is not in some fundamental relationship with my amendment. On the one hand, the government is proposing to the representatives of public enterprises, because of the illegal construction for investors, for contractors, a 1-3-year prison sentence. On the other hand, it does not accept the proposal that criminally they may be punished from 1,000 to 10,000 dinars by an official in the competent authorities of the administration if they do not act within the prescribed time limits. It is certain that the adoption of such mild criminal penalties would lead to a reduction of unnecessary waiting for building permits, as well as a reduction and bribery and corrupting of officials. Given that we want an efficient state administration and to help investors not waste much time unnecessarily waiting for approvals, i.e. to respond to submitted requests, it is logical that the competent authorities of the administration must carry out tasks in such a way as to ensure the effective implementation of the obligations of the parties in the prescribed time limits. In the absence of the prescribed deadlines, it is logical for the system of objective liability to be affected by the responsible person in the competent authority of the administration. Accordingly, it is proposed to impose a criminal penalty for missing the prescribed time limit for issuing a building permit, i.e. making a decision to refuse to issue a building permit. This proposal is an analogous and prescribed criminal penalty for issuing a building permit against regulations. I believe that there are indeed compelling reasons why this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11541	The People's MP, Mr. Ivkovic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11542	Dear Mr. Chairman, welcome to the Assembly and I wish you good health. We're glad you're here. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm sorry that Dr. Shumarac, the building minister, is not in the O.R. I'd be glad to be able to recapture the SPS's position towards the amendments and additions to the law he proposed. Maybe he's still, obviously unsuccessfully, looking for crying in Zlatibor. The amendment, submitted by MP Radojko Petrovic, is essentially trying to correct at least a little bit of an injustice. Amendments and additions to the Law on the Construction of Objects, filed by the Ministry of Construction and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have been completely targeted. I think that a large number of discussions in the debate in principle have made it clear that the full legislative regulation at the republican level in this area is arranged at an enviable level, from the Law on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages, through the Law on Building Land, the Law on Construction of Objects, to the Law on concessions. This regulated area on a republican level is not a guarantee that the laws are enforced. For what? Because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia makes it clear that the management of city building land is in the exclusive jurisdiction of local self-government. Not only that, but the management of city building land includes construction and construction and construction of buildings. It is clear in previous legal solutions that the obligations of local self-government have been made, both around the issue of an urban permit that precedes the creation of project documentation and the issue of a building permit. So the deadlines for issuing and urban and construction permits are strictly prescribed. What we have indirectly in the last five or six years is the fact that local self-government, or her organs, is not doing their job. A large number of citizens are in the position to submit requests for the issue of urban and especially building permits, and that, instead of 15 days, the procurement of these documents, with very slow work of the administration and additional conditions motivated, probably, and very unpleasant reasons, makes it difficult for both a year and two years. At the same time, the legislation adopted implies that local self-government is timely in the work of appropriate regulatory plans and therefore goes to meet those who want to build, whether housing facilities, or buildings for small and medium-sized enterprises, or for production. Therefore, the target target of possible changes and the addition of laws should not have been citizens or construction firms, but rather those from which it all stems, which is the local administration. Unfortunately, you've already passed the law in principle. You'll probably pass the law in general, and you'll hit directly on those who bear the slightest guilt, which is those who opted, unsuccessfully waiting half a year, a year and two years, so that their capital doesn't lose value moving into the construction process. As far as construction is concerned, there is a Law on the legalisation of illegally built objects that implies the constitutional position of local self-government and gives it the right to collect funds that were not invested by those who were illegally building. So that even those who have been illegally building are being brought into a position of security, that they have subsequently fulfilled their obligations to local self-government, in fact provided for themselves and their family peace that the object they have built can legalize. So, the local self-government absolutely has all the instruments to come to capital with good work and to finance further construction and legal construction with that capital. Unfortunately, this law directly strikes those who are least guilty - citizens and construction companies. The amendment proposed is trying to balance a little bit. He is trying to create space for those who do not do their job under the law, which is the authorities of local self-government, to at least be symbolically punished, which should have been for those who build either as investors or as performers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11543	Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11544	First, I must absolutely reject this subjective mentality syndrome or the agricultural soul syndrome shown here by Branislav Ivkovic in some inappropriate condescending towards the president of the National Assembly. But the SRS parliamentary group will support this amendment, given that it is logical, meaningful and corresponds to the general social interests. No matter what the General Administrative Procedure Act requires, the principle of dual-degreeity in the adoption of permits of this kind, first of all, is a building permit, but I think the same applies to urban and use permits, it is not sufficient to protect citizens from the will of local self-government. In most cases, the citizen allows, sometimes due to ignorance, and sometimes out of fear of being harassed by local self-government, the authorities of local self-government delaying making a solution, they say -- come tomorrow, come Monday, come to the moon of the day, etc. It's obvious that this is how they indirectly extort bribes. It's a pretty widespread practice. Most citizens think -- if they go into a second-degree procedure, that it can cause an even greater aversion of local self-government authorities and concrete interference in solving the underlying problem. It is not uncommon for a second-degree body to return to first-degree resolution, to re-solve or intervene to resolve, to renew the administrative procedure, to supplement, etc. For all that, it would be good for the law to prescribe, above all, punishment for non-compliance. It is clear why it is necessary to punish a responsible person in organulocal self-government if he issues one of these three most important licences without fulfilling the legal requirements. But what about there when he shuts up, what about there when he won't betray, what about there when he's being crazy and naive or when he loses his record? It's a very common practice - to simply lose the file. There's actually no concrete punishment. There are penalties prescribed by the Criminal Code for the abuse of official powers, which are rarely prosecuted by perpetrators, where criminal sanctions are very rarely pronounced, where citizens are practically unprotected. Here, in this particular case, if a rather high fine is determined, it will raise some awareness, shake the bearers of functions in the bodies of local self-government, force them to act in accordance with the law, and the citizens will have at their disposal, immediately at hand, a means containing sanctions and will be automatically applied as soon as the conditions for application are met. So, without someone at the beginning of a rather uncertain trial, based on too much general provision on a criminal offence. There's a clear breach here. It has not issued a permit or a decision within 15 days to refuse a permit for non-compliance with the conditions - it will be punished. It is clear to the end and even means almost automatic application.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11545	Right on the line, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11546	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, working in the Assembly requires Members of Parliament above all to respect the Constitution and the laws. Surely, all of us who talk about the Constitution and the laws are those who must and must fight for their application, to respect the hierarchy and work of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The function of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a very high function and primarily needs a man who does the job, and especially should respect a man who is probably someone's husband and father at the same time. The fact that someone was sick for a certain time and wished him welcome ends only on this and probably on the manners that each of us carries out of his house and paints his father and his mother.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11547	If no one ever answers for a word after this amendment, I'll put him to the vote and ask the MPs to plead. For 54, against 131 abstentions, there was no vote of 13, a total of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11548	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment has been caused by amendments to Article 58. The Law on the Construction of Objects, because the legislator and I, the amendment, provided for an amendment to Article 58, but in a different way, of course. The legislator drew several grounds for criminal punishment from article 58 and predicted these offences as crimes that could be punished by prison. Given that I have adopted Amendment 1 to Article 2. The bill rejected the possibility that individuals in the construction chain of buildings without a building permit could be exposed to such repression that the prison sentence goes even up to three years, I followed that idea, and then I had to amend 2 to Article 8. I intervene the bill so that the present article in 58 remains in the text in which it has so far been and up to these amendments and additions, and that only the fine is in line with the new fines under the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Construction of Objects. In fact, the lawmaker did not convince me that an investor of a family home which, on the territory of 95% of municipalities in Serbia has no place to build a house with permission, must go to jail if he wants to provide his family with a roof over his head. He did not convince me that chaos is only in the heads of those who build without chaos in the heads of those who do local self-government. He did not convince me that this bill would not make the building permit an extremely appreciated paper, and that is immediately the basis for bribery and corruption. Municipal officials, ever since any papers are issued in the world that depend not on the will of citizens but on the interpretation of certain laws or regulations, have always been subject to bribery and corruption and represent small gods, who, even beyond the will of elected persons, mean those in whom the people have trust, have done jobs that only filled their pockets. The bill promoter knows for sure that almost all PTT facilities built throughout our Republic do not have building permits. He knows that these are various objects for transmission of connections, for transmission of signals, that they are usually on remote peaks, in outposts, where there are no bases, no plans, where the municipality, even when it wanted to get into it, could not find the basis to issue a building permit to build a facility. The post office, like a system that requires continuous renewal and which requires users to support itself, went further into expansion, had to expand, reached almost every settlement, not considering whether there was a building permit or not. What if the post office, since it's financially interested in using these facilities, keeps using them? Will people go to jail for a month, and then they will join together both financial and prison sentences. Will it start with the Director General, the chairman of the board of directors at some small post office unit? There will be very confusing conditions in the use of objects for which no building permit has been issued. He didn't convince us that the bill promoter would treat them like legal objects. He doesn't even have a right to do that. We are coming into a situation where we will have two types of illegal objects: one, built up until the entry into force of this bill, for which there will be no sanctions, and perhaps they will not be able to be legalized and others that cannot be built at all, according to this bill. If their construction is started, maximum sentences will follow, prison sentences, and then we will be in a position to determine with two witnesses when an object is started, and this is the situation that occurred after World War II when two witnesses and the dead were declared alive. I think the bill promoter has received enough arguments to conclude that the bill that had good intentions is not in principle a good bill -- he did not sanction local self-government officials who either made a counterfeit, so they issue a permit where he cannot or does not issue a permit where he can. Turns out this is a government that's gonna be more involved in destruction than in construction, but what we have here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11549	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? The word is from Ambassador Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11550	I believe that the National Assembly should accept the amendment of MP Tomislav Nikolic, because he primarily refers to the exclusion of prison sentences in case the citizen continues to use the facility where a solution to the ban on use was issued. The prison sentence here is absolutely unacceptable, inhumane, against some basic constitutional principles, for several reasons, and two are basic. First, it could be about a ruinous facility where a citizen lives, so an old facility. If the citizen has no money to repair the facility, or if the government has banned the facility from being renovated, repaired, built up, upgraded, etc. Because some other planning documentation, urban plans are designed to build a traffic station, build some other buildings and so on. We have cases from practices in the Belgrade municipality, where in 1969 the planning documentation envisioned the construction of some traffic stations. The big question is whether this construction will ever take place, but citizens living in houses in the area that is intended for the construction of a traffic station can't fix anything on their houses, because their houses are designed for demolition, therefore, are intended for expropriation, and the state wants the price of these facilities to be as low as possible at the moment of expropriation. It's an objective interest of the state. But that's how the state puts people's lives at risk. They can't live in ruins, they have nowhere to move, and this is where they're threatened with jail time. That a man would rather go to jail than to the street, especially in the winter time. In our practice, we've had a lot of cases of people deliberately committing some kind of violation during the winter period to get their hands on a warm prison. They're breaking up a window somewhere or challenging an incident on the street, etc. Now we're putting a whole category of citizens in this situation. A much more frequent situation is that a man starts building a family house and has no money to build an entire house within a certain time. And he builds the ground floor, builds two rooms and starts living. He can't get a valid permit. He can't objectively, because he didn't meet all the conditions. But there's nowhere else for his family to live, he has to live in an unfinished house. Thousands and thousands of such cases are in Serbia. So each of them should pay a fine or go to jail after the law is passed. What does that mean? That people go to jail because they live in unconditional facilities, and they don't have the money to get their parole facilities right away. Thousands and thousands of refugees have started building houses over the past few years. Almost none of them managed to build a house and get a used license. What does that mean? If the state cannot allow favourable loans and assistance on its part to build houses within the scheduled deadlines, then it should not suppress citizens who are also able to cope with their suffering, with their sweat, with their petty savings being built for ten or twenty years. How many people in Serbia who have built their family house for 20 years? Now they can't get a valid permit until they're done at home, until all conditions are met. I know from some personal practice, from personal experience, until the attic is finished, you can't get a valid license. What does that mean? And secondly, the government in this legal project has exaggerated at the level of fines. She prescribed ten times the penalty. It's not just about this law, it's about a lot of other laws, tax laws and things like that, which have been brought against the constitution. Obviously, you need big money, and we Serbian radicals warned you in time that there was nothing from the donor conference. It is now confirmed by Prime Minister Djindjic. True, he's still afraid that money could still get somewhere in November, when he assumes I'm going to become Prime Minister. As for that, I also urge Djindjic to resign immediately. I'm ready for this moment to form a new government. There's no reason to wait. But what you've deceived the people into getting billions of dollars from the West, it's obvious that you yourself admit that there's none of it, and now you need the people to kidnap the money you need and the money you want. Don't overdo it. The people can't put up with their own skins. Don't go too far with tax charges or penalties for pointless things. Here you have really prescribed rigorous penalties for something that is pointless to punish in the present conditions at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11551	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I am putting this amendment to the vote. For 45, against 132 abstentions, two did not vote 13, a total of 192 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Bozidar Vujic, Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Miroljub Veljkovic. The Government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have submitted to Article 8 consists of two parts, and it basically means a certain improvement in Article 8 because the fines for the infringements committed by this article remain as such, as a disciplinary measure. What needs to be deleted from Article 8 is prison sentences. The reason for eradicating prison sentences following an offence lies in the social situation in which the whole of Serbia is found and in which all its citizens are. The social status of those who would come under attack over a committed violation and a social situation in their family so that it looks like DOS has a intention, and this member seems to have, the whole of Serbia to put in jail. I simply cannot believe that one expert government makes these mistakes and has an obvious intention to put Serbia in jail. Besides, we don't need to be surprised. It's DOS after all. What needs to be done, and you have heard Mr Tomislav Nikolic and Dr Vojislav Seselj's statements, is that sanctions as a fine should be kept, and prison sentences should be deleted. There is one causative link between this Article 8 and Article 1 and the members of the SRS have been trying to get you, the MPs of the DOS, to present behind this speaker, that this law, regardless of what is bad, and precisely because of this Article 1 which has a causal relationship with Article 8 is retroactive. If this DOS government had at least one expert, expert, and if at least one small effort had been made, which the DOS would not have been difficult, citizens would have been greatly helped. We are aware of the fact that the Government has submitted amendments to its own laws, i.e. And then there was this expert who said -- this is what we need to fix, so that's how it's been going through previous legal projects. It wasn't done here, and it should have. The government should have proposed, in view of Article 10, and I believe that you were the "officer" only on Friday and printed out, but this session did not end, it should have told one additional amendment and additional member that, since this law will enter on the eighth day of its publication in the "officer" day, it leaves the possibility for all citizens in this country, in this Serbia, who have been building their facilities illegally or wildly (as it has been said several times for this pay phone), that local self-government authorities are applying for legalisation of what has been done so far. How unsupervised, slow local self-government is, how bulky this bureaucratic apparatus is and in some way eats itself, this government knows, because it can control this local self-government, and, besides, in the vast majority of municipalities, it is DOS. There was the possibility that an additional amendment could be ordered to the local self-government and all municipal services responsible for such a thing to provide solutions for use, construction, urban and any other permits during any subsequent period. In this way, citizens would be protected, and all that they started, what they wanted to do, to solve their roof over their heads, and what local self-governments didn't solve and predict private building areas, this way would be resolved. Well, when they get permission, not by misery, everything's gonna be fine. However, DOS did not want it, this amendment was not accepted by the government, I will not be surprised if it is not accepted further, because it is DOS, but what I want to say - this assembly, in my opinion personally, will not refuse this amendment, will reject it DOS. So he won't be rejected by the assembly, he'll be rejected by the DOS, and that people will know he appreciates it in the first election to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11553	Anyone else answer for a word from the amendment applicants? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 46, against 127, there were no abstentions, there were no 17 votes, a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Branislav Blažic, Goran Cvetanovic and Ljubomir Kragovic. The government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? There's a word from MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11554	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8: "A fine of 100 to 10,000 dinars or a prison sentence of up to 30 days will be punishable for a violation of citizens if they continue to use the facility after the decision to ban its use". In the second position: "For the repeated violation of Article 1, or when the offence has been committed out of material interest, a fine and prison sentence will be imposed for up to 30 days. "The motives for which I have submitted this amendment are primarily to prevent this particular prison sentence from being imposed for up to 30 days. Gentlemen, it's very easy to pursue these legal penalties. That police logic certainly isn't good, it can't do any good, it can't fix any failures, or something a citizen does. That may require a little more thinking about the mental life of a citizen who goes to prison for up to 30 days because he continued to use the facility, where the solution prevented him from doing so. You should also consider the consequences that one prison sentence brings to that man, and to his family, and to the children, and to everyone else. It's not as simple as it seems to you at first sight. I don't just know if you're going to build the most buildings, in fact prisons, out of contributions or out of donations? I think you should think about this mental life and maybe reduce your desire to arrest citizens in Serbia. That, in fact, you need to know, especially what the most common applies, and it will apply to people who have built several rooms and have moved in, and later they continue to finish their family home. Is that why you're gonna put these people in jail? It's about honest people, honest people. In the end, you will lead them to destroy their lives and their futures, in order to fulfill some of your ambitions of seducing order in such repressive and ruthless ways. That's why it has to be known, because it can't be kept in this country like this, in the country it's become modern that you don't know, and it's enough to say -- I don't know, I didn't know, and it can happen to you that they respect you even more. In this country, the president of the Republic of Serbia, or the president of Yugoslavia, seems to be the most unacquainted. It's enough to say -- they don't know, they didn't know, and that might get them even more popular. So once again, I want to say one more way and I want to appeal to you -- consider these rigorous legal penalties. Mercy may be characteristic of America, perhaps society is arranged there, and even ruthless people have created it, but in this country people live with other mentalities and live in other conditions. It is therefore necessary to take everything into account and in some ways to reduce these penalties, especially those prison sentences, especially in this article, where it certainly does not stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11555	There is a word from MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11556	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is no accident that Mr Blazic and I have submitted the exact same amendment. It's about Article 8(2), where according to this bill, even those who commit such a violation will be held in prison for up to 30 days. In this bill, as you could see, there are literally two members, and all the other members are criminal provisions, criminal provisions, so this is not a bill in the right sense of words. Prosecution of prison sentences would certainly only make the social situation of many people worse and the social situation of their families. It's not about protecting people who, for example, came to Leskovec with large material assets by smuggling cigarettes and thus built huge buildings, built whole castles on Lake Vlasin. It is, therefore, about people who, above all, have made a great deal of involvement, with modest financial resources and physical work, have come to some family homes and, simply, this social layer, the population, should thus be protected in any case. That is why my amendment, as well as my colleague Blazic's amendment, is heading towards the punishment of the prison offered in the bill, going up to 30 days, should be rephrased and fined, worth between 3,000 and 8,000 dinars. First of all, we need to see these people who are really socially endangered and in some ways adequately protected. Maybe we need all the attention to the facilities, and there are plenty of them, for which the new DOS government abuses its position, gives certain permits, or these objects are done without permission. We have a recent case in Leskovec -- a discotheque opened last week in the centre of Leskovec, it's about the home of culture, an object that is a cultural and historical monument, under the protection of the state. There's also the secretary of the municipality, he can confirm that a solution has been given to return the object to its original state. Regardless of this solution, the new DOS government, where it is mostly DS members, has given some permits, which are really neither valid nor can have legitimacy, in order to make some new, woody Madonna in Leskovac. Apparently, Djindjic, as before Milosevic to Pozharevc, directed his financial power towards Leskovec, and we also know that it is in the centre, that it is a terrible noise, that the residential facility is concerned, that even before there were victims in those facilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11557	Please stick to the subject, this is a debate in detail, but not in such a way as to discuss individual building permits. Is Ljubomir Kragovic answering for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11558	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted the amendment to Article 8 for two reasons -- one reason is that the range 1:100 in these fines is reduced, and the other is that this position relating to the prison sentence is deleted from this article. Why delete - because this amendment applies strictly to violations of the right citizen and not to legal persons. We know what the situation in Serbia is, we know what caused the fact that there are many illegally built objects, starting objects. I think such a rigorous law will only lead to great dissatisfaction with the citizens. We, as MPs, are here to point to this kind of illogicality and to ask that this member be changed. What came from the Ministry as a bill shows that there is no way, no idea, how citizens who have built their housing can start legalisation or give them some deadlines within which they can legalize. This is just a matter of criminality. All those who did something in this country are guilty of doing it. It seems the DOS government wants to bring everything down to some zero and, moreover, below zero. So, since the introduction of a rigorous tax policy, through an unreal budget, these fines and even legal penalties are now being introduced to replace the budget. I think the government policy of the Republic of Serbia is on the wrong track. Such a restrictive and rigorous policy will not be able to solve its problems. Since this is one of the last amendments, I appeal once again to the Serbian government minister to withdraw this bill and pass a new bill, which will clearly state that the legalisation of illegally built objects which, normally, do not endanger the current infrastructure, that these legalisation conditions be favourable, to pass a comprehensive law concerning this area. Then to edit land books, so that red tape in local self-government would not delay the process of obtaining building permits. It's a long time to get building permits. All of our allegations suggest that the minister should come out and withdraw the bill, with a new bill that would not be at the expense of Serbian citizens in a future period. Under this law, they have to pay rigorous fines, and they have to support prison sentences to make life possible for themselves and their family in a residential facility.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11559	He has the word Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11560	These amendments by MPs Goran Cvetanovic, Branislav Blazic and Ljubomir Kragovic are very meaningful. They point to one problem that opens up this law. This is the problem of the possibility of multiple punishment of people who continue to use objects without the use of permission, i.e. objects for which a non-use solution has been issued. Here human freedom, as the Constitution guarantees the highest value, is simply thrown into the hands of very often irresponsible authorities of local self-government. Here, theoretically, there is a possibility that a man of ten, twenty, thirty, fifty-fifty times a month goes to prison because the competent authority of the municipal self-government has forbidden him to use the facility, to live in it, and he has nowhere else to move. He goes to jail for a month, he comes back, and he goes back to prison and so on. What does that mean? If a man lives in his building that is even in a ruinous state, if he has no place from that facility, and in a ruinous state, he can be an object that is perfectly legally built, for which there was once a building and useful, and an urban permit, and then a man comes into a situation that has no money to maintain, for example, a roof is coming down, and he has no money to fix that roof, a municipal authority comes in and forbids him to use an object. What's he gonna do? Iline can get permission to repair the facility. Then what do you want him to do? To go to jail? Because he can't solve his apartment properly, the poor woman needs to go to jail. You can put 30% of Serbian citizens in jail immediately. Is that how you solve a problem? He's not getting rid of it. There's something else you're not paying attention to. Almost no municipalities in Serbia have a regulatory plan, a regulated regulatory plan. Tell me what kind of municipalities are where it's been carried out to perfection. There's hardly any. You have authority in all municipalities in Serbia. Make, first, regulation plans, then urban plans, then take care of land books. When you fix all this, you're seducing order amongst the citizens, not upside down. You persecute citizens, you charge very high sentences, you threaten them with prison, you order prison sentences of such authority, and you are unable to do what is your basic jurisdiction. I know the problem with the regulation plans, with urban plans, with land books, which is a problem that's been laid down for ten years. But once someone has to reach out to solve that problem. Your government won't, since you're leaving soon. My government will start working on it from November. But don't arrest people under that law. Stop arresting people because they live in facilities that are inappropriate. Stop arresting people because they live in facilities that have not yet been issued a valid permit. Don't arrest people for that, because trouble has made them do it. They live out of trouble in such objects.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11561	Anyone else answer for a word under this amendment? Nobody. I put the amendments to the vote. For 50, against 131, one abstained, not voted 11, a total of 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 8. The amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Government, the Committee on Urbanism and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word Mr. Služarević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11562	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. Article 8 paragraph 2 is amended and reads: "The fine of 3,000 dinars will be fined if the citizen continues to use the facility after the decision to ban its use. Article 51(3) - The prison sentence is deleted. "Very often citizens are forced to continue to use the residential facility and after making a solution to the ban on use exclusively for social reasons, because otherwise they are unable to solve their housing problem. Prosecution of prison sentences would only worsen their social status and the social status of their families. The prison sentence is unacceptable. The inspector may, according to this solution in this article, provide a solution to the protection of use. It can be misused. The inspector may, on several occasions, send a certain person to prison, if any subjective thinking occurs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11563	Anyone else answer for a word? He has the word Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11564	This is really my last announcement under this law. I hope that's because it's the last amendment. If there had been any more amendments, I'd have answered more times. I would use this last call to call the Minister of the Forest to withdraw this law without arguing, because the problem is obviously not well-absorbed. I'm surprised that's the case. Minister Šumarac has an experienced assistant, Mr Djolovic, who is the radio Starar's affairs, if memory serves me well, at the time of Neboj Covic, the progenitor of our illegal construction. This is such a serious problem that we must really not allow ourselves to chat just on the surface and impose rigorous sanctions on citizens who had no place to go, but they had to build themselves a roof over their heads. All those who received apartments from the state were privileged in a certain way because the state helped them solve the housing problem. The state helped them solve the housing problem, but here are people who didn't get apartments from the state, mostly. It's not my fault that you're chasing someone who's got an apartment from the state, and it's building a house. You're chasing people from the periphery, who exclusively built their own houses with their own forces. In all Belgrade municipalities and in many municipalities in Serbia, many, in the vast majority of municipalities, the privilege was permission, construction, as well as urban permits. It was a privilege to get a salary for individual housing. It's a terrible privilege to get out of the community. And the municipalities mostly gave 10, 15, a year of such pay, and some didn't pay a single salary for a year. They wouldn't give because the municipal bureaucracy on the restrictive distribution of crying shared its power. It was necessary to bribe a whole series of municipal officials and officials in order to get paid, in most cases. That's why the citizens were forced to build themselves, to come to pay for themselves, or to buy their own place, and to build their own roof over the main one. This law of yours is not applied retroactively, but it will apply to all objects that have not yet been legalized and whose construction has not yet been completed since this moment. If you adopt, God forbid, the law, the building inspectors will go from object to object, give solutions to the ban on further construction and then find who lives in an unfinished facility, in an object without the permission of use, will impose these cruel penalties. Or the inspectors will be bribed to close their eyes, to pass, to pretend that the object has not been seen. You know what happens then in certain municipalities, one inspector goes, so he takes bribes, meets people, gets enough money, and he doesn't react to obvious illegalities. He's pulling out of action. Then there's the other inspector. How many municipalities there are inspectors, each must fill their bisages, from poor citizens who have nowhere else, are forced to bribe, are forced to passively participate as victims in corruption affairs. Until the global situation is resolved, the problem of building construction, whether it is individual or one which is resorted to by legal persons in Serbia, until land books are resolved, regulatory plans, urban plans, detailed, global, etc., is not worth changing the law in this sense, it is not only worth repressive measures to go against citizens. That is why the minister could do one good deed in this government, which Djindjic said would not last much longer, to withdraw this law, so that the people could remember him for good, not for bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11565	Since no one's answering for word after this amendment anymore, I'm putting it to a vote. I ask the MPs to vote. For 53, against 140, there were no abstentions, there were no 5 votes, of a total of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Mr. Seselj promised he wouldn't answer the word. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11566	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8(2). Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction of Objects. It changes and says, "A fine of 1,000 to 3,000 dinars will punish a citizen if he continues to use the facility after a solution to ban his use. "Ladies and gentlemen, that means the citizens of Serbia should live in the dungeons. They are then the safest in relation to the building inspector, Mr. Zoran Djindjic. Serbia is slowly coming under DOS rule to Belgrade Pashaluk. NATO's pact has torn down many civilian facilities, possibly by order of construction inspector Zoran Djindjic. I don't know if those facilities had a proper building permit. When he is no longer satisfied with such a way, it means from access to this way, he moves to pass new laws, new penalties for those citizens who are the poorest. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe many in this room have built their own houses and know what it means to build one facility. That facility is probably walled after a few years. Someone who was the president of the municipality, the vice president or anything else, he must have narrowed it down pretty fast and got to those permits. Ladies and gentlemen, very often citizens must, whether or not they want to build such objects for years. You now forbid them to continue building, you forbid them to live in such buildings as are unfinished. You're threatening them with jail time. When you came to power, your leaders promised Serbian citizens that they would live in prosperity, that they would have everything. But when you came, when you saw it, you repented very quickly and went into the white world to seek help. You don't get any help...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11567	Mr. Zivanovic, please stick to the subject, I warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11568	You have returned to Serbia and whom you will rather than lead again the Serbian poor people. Ladies and gentlemen, you see how you went in Kosovo, you see how they brought you back from the border, you betrayed Serbia, you betrayed Kosovo, you betrayed the Serbian people. It's time to fall.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11569	Mr. Zivanovic, please take care of what you say about this pay phone, no matter what you time it for the last second, and then get out of the pay phone so you don't get through the sanctions. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 47, against 114 abstentions, there were no votes, no votes, of a total of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Risticevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11570	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 98 has been injured. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. First position, the speaker can talk about the issue on the agenda. Also, the attitude of the 3rd member, during the speech of the MP or other participants in the search, is not allowed. On Thursday and today, I threw it away, and I agree that the chairman will give me a heads-up. Because of this first position, that speakers are not holding the agenda, that is, the speaker can talk about the issue on the agenda, it is not Prime Minister Djindjic on the agenda, it is not patriotism on the agenda, it is not the formation of a government, the local community in Marjevo Luzna. That cheap patriotism of theirs, which has been pouring on us since Thursday, when they advertised their rally ten times, pissed me off, so I threw it away. I agree to have a warning. Also, there's a rumor here that poor people can't build something, that they only build privileged ones. Tell me about a gentleman whose reigns his mother received a 750-square salary and built a 437-square house. What kind of money did an old woman earn in a year's time and build a house to fully resolve her living issue? That's what we need to discuss, not cheap bar patriotism, in style -- come on, brothers, chase... (President: Do you suggest that I give you a warning or, what is it? )......................................................................................................... And I'll get rich first. I ask that there be a vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure and that I be given a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11571	I'm listening to Mr. Risticevic's request and I'm giving him a warning. I would like to put to the vote Mr Risticevic's objection that there has been a breach of Article 98(1). I ask the MPs to make a statement about Mr. Risticevic's proposal. 93, against 38, with 35 abstentions, did not vote 29, out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept Mr Risticevic's objection that there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure in Article 98(1). Is there anyone else answering the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) We have completed a search of the draft law in particular and a decision on amendments. Does the Proposer's representative want a final word? He wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11572	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the vast majority of MPs here have responded to all the objections that have been made in the debate in detail about this law. Let's just point out one more time -- they've been making findings that the law is retroactive. So, clearly and loudly here, I point out that the law is not retroactive, that it refers only to objects that will be built in the future, from the moment of entry into force of this law, or that this is what we want to introduce order into an area that has, in its proportions, reached such an unsuspecting size, that we have said that there are about a million illegally designed objects. So this is what we want to stop this trend. It is not true that representatives of the previous government, or the current opposition, have regulated this area. We see by that number that they didn't actually regulate it. This law, which is mentioned, on legalization, may actually have been best if we had immediately abolished it now, because we have data that, for example, in Vojvodina, it is legal by that law only a percentage that can stand on the fingers of one hand. So about 5-6% of all illegal objects. In addition, she concluded that the legal proposal was against the poor. And that's not true at all. The opposition MPs themselves pointed out the Vlasina case here. We have already said here that the rich and the boasts have generally chosen some places for which no urbanism has the right to build, such as national parks, public areas, parks in populated areas etc. Therefore, the law is not against the poor, but above all against those who are rich and who want to build very arrogantly, not taking into account the laws. In this way, in fact, by introducing this order, the city authorities will primarily have a source of income based on which they will be able to regulate infrastructure and land and hope that it will be strictly respected in the future. To answer some more specific questions -- there were speeches here that we don't have regulatory plans in Zemun that are up-to-date, new, and that there are objects that will collapse, and if they don't get permission, practically, that citizens are in danger, or those who live in those facilities. Under the current Law on the Construction of Objects, any object that threatens the lives of those who live in it, and not only housing facilities, but any objects that threaten the environment, should be repaired without a building permit. So that solution exists. In addition, editing, for example, the facade, which you are here instructions, it falls into investment maintenance. Therefore, ongoing investment maintenance does not require the issue of a building permit. In the end, it is not clear about the opposition's role in the status quo. Why isn't it clear? It would be the same as if you were trying to get rid of traffic permits, to lift driver's licenses. It's not easy to buy a car, so they still have to be correct. Therefore, poor citizens, poor people, should not even have a traffic permit. That means we drive, say, unidentified objects. You can imagine even more if we were to lift traffic permits. You know, it's hard to pass a driving test with us. Why do we have to have a driver's license? You can imagine the chaos it would be in traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-16-0.u11573	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on building objects in general. For 142, against 44, abstentions 7, all voted, out of a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Construction of Objects. Since the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by letter dated 10 July 2001, informed the National Assembly that it was withdrawing from the procedure a motion for a resolution on the fight against corruption and a proposal for a recommendation on the behaviour of public officials and officials, such as the 9th and 10th agenda, and that the 11th item of the agenda - a proposal for the resolution and appointment of a number of judicial officials - has been discussed earlier, I realize this exhaustive agenda of this session and I am concluding the session of the 7th extraordinary session.
