ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14389	Dear Mr. Chairman, you as President of the Council of the Republic of Serbia, interpreting the Rules of Procedure, have an obligation, both moral and formal, to decide on the basis of the facts you really have. I am reporting a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 98, paragraphs 1 and 2 because, here is the stenogram, the MP, the president of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, decidedly said the name of the SPS party in a negative context, and with full right, I came forward, and you did not allow me to replicate, although here is a stenogram that clearly shows that it has been done. I think you have a really big obligation to check it out, when some MP comes to you in a replica and claims it was something like that, and if you couldn't believe it yourself, because someone who's serious wouldn't put himself in an awkward position to fake it, with a false motive coming up. This isn't the first time you've acted, this is the fourth or fifth time I've done it and I'm left to interpret that it has other connotations.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14390	You have the right to a replica, please. What's so funny? A mistake has been found and what now?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14391	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the replica would have far greater value if it had been spoken last night at 6:00 p.m., after a political speech by the MP who, by the way, is not in the O.R., and I personally find it uncomfortable to speak when he is not in the O.R. Now that I've just got the right, I'm honored in this situation, and I need to take advantage of it. The political speech held at 10 minutes to 18 hours certainly sounded so, since the speaker did not have much argument in the bill's very motion to show, so he defined himself as a political speech of a purely manifest character, which had the task of putting an "i" point, at the end of a session where in the afternoon debate a large part of the MPs, a very precise and decident depreciation, told the harsh truth about the draft labour law. A few things to point out. The speaker claimed that the first government - DOS power to speak to unions is equal. That's absolutely not true. He later noted that collective agreements are relapses of the communist period. It is the existence of collective agreements, which primarily regulate the relationship of earnings, then employment and job layoffs, that have previously been discussed equally with trade unions in this country. Finally, those who talk to union managers and workers are well aware that the existing labour law is a real law, which protects both employers and employees alike. However, the replica is key to the debt area. It is one area that has been manipulated, especially lately, since the time of the Paris Club (and negotiations are being held again with the London Club in Paris). One fact should be said: in 1991, this country owed 4.5 billion and was owed 2.5 billion dollars. That's what's true. It is also true that debts could not return and that financial flows were interrupted. And it's also true that the $4.5 billion debt hasn't been increased basically by a dollar, but you're counting interest rates up to $12 billion. To that end, in 2001, the debt to us of 2.5 billion did not receive interest and remains worth 2.5 billion at the same time. It was forgiven what was planned to be taken on the basis of interest calculations, until you calculated the interest that we had with our debtors towards us, and that is the essence. It therefore negotiates forgiveness of a part of the interest, not the base of the debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14392	The word is made by MP Boris Karaicic, followed by MP Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14393	Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, before my presentation, please consider yesterday's debate. I really don't think that yesterday's debate is good; neither is the SPS that defends workers, nor is it DOS that should defend employers and mention North Korea, etc. What is my intention today is to convince you of a few things, and the first is that this law is really ideological. It is good, I support 90% of what is written, but I am convinced that such legislation in our country is not applicable and I want to argue with the data that I have come to. So if we want to change our society and this law it's desirable, but we can't do that with people who have ruled our factories for decades, our social firms, in a way that only communism has allowed. It's not a rule -- everyone's rule, it's nobody's -- and I can't figure out that these people become employers overnight. I can't understand that no one took care of that, if we mention the Czech Republic and Poland as an example, there before this transition law was passed by a lustration law, which means that managers who had been destroying social firms for many years had no right to deal with it for 10 years, precisely for the reasons I've stated. Please, if we do not consider this, we are in a situation that is truly paradoxical and absurd: that people who have no bearing on the market and transition have no bearing on where companies are headed; they decide on strategic partners; they decide where their company will go and which way. In doing so, of course, workers who have been on strike all these ten years on our calls fear that these same people, who before October 5, who had introduced work obligations, would be declaring some former presidents for folk heroes, and not having to do with the market, could be thrown out of the cracks of revenge, not because of their incompetence, but for reasons that are truly purely political. My thesis is that I can't have communist personnel running the economy like employers, and there are them in all municipalities. I will later mention the municipality of Uzica, from which I come, as a very good example of what I'm talking about. Each of you certainly knows a large number of these directors who have been destroying factories for many years and who, unfortunately, have not been cleaned up in a way that was legally possible. I'm not talking about one of them being in the SPS, JUL, stealing or not; maybe he was, maybe he wasn't. I'm talking about data and documents that say that some of them came to the head of these factories in the '90s, so last century, which on those accounts had millions of marks or dollars, and that after they left the company's head, or unfortunately the rest and the day-to-day accounts are down or zero. So it's impossible for anyone to think that these frames can enforce this law. I say again, the text of the law isn't bad, but it's inadmissible with these kind of frames. I have measured and thought for a long time whether the private, which this law really needs to be interested in, will benefit more than this law if it is adopted now or if our country does not adopt it. In that scale, I have decided to appeal to you not to adopt this law precisely because of the state's decision to stand in the way of such people. I mentioned several options: the law on lustration, the law on transition, and I also remind you that as long as there is social property as such cannot be a talk about the market, about the game in the way Western Europe has been doing it for many years. Because again, these people don't understand what this is about. I can't figure out that unions, who used to deal with halves, women's hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo! It is not my instinct to be against this law because of them, but my intention is to warn people like, here's only about Užice, Dragan Subotić - Valjanica copper, Milovan Corović - Valjanica aluminium, Rade Zagorac - TP Koza, who have therefore ruined these factories, cannot be employers in any way. They can be formal, but they can't be essential because it's against this people, against this country and finally, of course, against the interests of these workers, who have been threatened many times, primarily politically, kicked out of work. They responded to our calls and waited for October 5th, you know, with great hopes, and not today to welcome this law with the fear that these same directors, this same Rade Zagorac, the same Dragan Subotić, would fire them from work. These people had a monopoly on copper exports. Copper is a strategic product of this country. They had the right to dispose of these products as if it were their own. They had the right to set up boards, not them. They had the right to do whatever they wanted and they weren't punished for it. Please, it's a failure of this state. It's not the failure of those workers or those people who are sitting at home watching this. Therefore, it is too deep and is too big a problem for one legal act to be resolved. Please, people and their fates are really more important than a month or two days, which may indeed be lost if this law is withdrawn from the procedure, before it adopts a law on transition or lustration, so the problem is solved. We need to make sure that some younger people from abroad, not like me, are not afraid, but younger people from abroad who have graduated from adequate schools, replace them, because they know business, they know what they're talking about, they know what they're talking about. And not that people who, again, have had all the power for decades become over the night employers, just because someone who wrote this law did not take care of the order of events and that when he mentioned Poland and the Czech Republic, he could not mention one part and leave out much more important laws that had been adopted before. So the whole debate that I'm talking about in some way reminded me that one thing they're looking up to prove that the workers are really in danger. They're no less, no more threatened by the law itself. They're more threatened by the wrong people, by their all-powerful and self-will, whom even the new state hasn't stopped, and on the other hand, I believe that the privates, who are really waiting for this law with great hopes, will have an understanding of what I'm saying. And this is that the state must, before it starts with this bill, give social property to achieve a lot of things, in terms of legal regulation, before it says -- well, we are also ready and able to regulate this matter in a way that is European, democratic and implies Western democracy that we seek. Please, and it's too big a problem, and it's too real to be mumbled in front of it. I can't hide in front of him, because people in Užica and other cities have warned me and begged me to say this. I said what I had. It's up to you to be soldiers of your own parties or to say -- well, we'll wait a few more months, then we'll pass this law and it'll be much better for us, both for the workers and for the employers, if we wait that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14394	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14395	Mr. President, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I have reported to point to a member of our 89th Rules of Procedure, who is talking about the right of the heads of Parliament to address a specific legislative project for MPs. I have nothing against what the young MP, Mr Karaicic, from this pay phone invited MPs not to accept the law or invited the lawmaker to withdraw it, but I have against what he said on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Movement for Democratic Serbia, because he is still a member of the parliamentary group of the Movement for Democratic Serbia, given the circumstances. I am saying this because the PDS, as a member of the DOS, supports the adoption of this law, will advocate its improvement and definitely adoption. That is why I would ask, Mr. President, that Mr. Karaicic's discussion be accepted as a discussion of MP Karaicic, not as a representative of the PDS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14396	I, of course, can't get into your party problems. He is still indeed a representative, or president of the PDS parliamentary group, and that is no doubt the case. Until it changes, that's how it is. (Stanko Kovacevic: He is the vice president of the other opposition party. You make arrangements to make it different, so it'll be different. This is resolved by law through the Administrative Committee of the Assembly. There's nothing I can do about it. Don't argue about PDS now. He'll get rid of it. Are we gonna listen to each other, what are we gonna do? The easiest way to solve this problem is to appreciate the arguments Mr. Karaic made. The word is from MP Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14397	Dear colleagues, respected presidency, respected ministers, it is certain that one of the DOS's crown pre-election promises was an increase in citizens' standards. You'll be wondering what the increase in citizens' standards has to do with this topic today. But surely that's what defined people as voting for change. In order to achieve this pre-election promise, it is certain that more efficiency of the economy is needed. To achieve this greater efficiency of the economy, surely domestic resources are not enough. Greater foreign investment is needed. Major foreign investments have certain conditions. In order to reach them, the stability of the state, both the states and the environments, is, above all, needed. Now we're going to talk about the stability of the state, because that's our goal. Other conditions for foreign investment are normal and trade liberalisation and prices, improvement of the banking system, protection of private property. There's another condition we're talking about today, which is the liberalisation of the labour market. The liberalisation of the labour market is the only one of these conditions that can be twice understood. The liberalisation of the labour market brings foreign investment, which is our goal to all of us and for which we have won these elections, promising to improve citizens' standards. But this is important to bear in mind, the liberalisation of the labour market can, in some circumstances, bring about and help the instability of the state. Then these foreign investments are gone. What can the liberalisation of the labour market bring? Surely that's a big turn, that's something that brings a big change from the system we've been living in, not for the last 10 years, but for the last 50 and over years. The liberalisation of labour markets brings a new market spirit. What's important is that it eliminates social function from the company. We are aware that the social function has destroyed the efficiency and economic capacity of our company, especially large enterprises. It brings something that we now have as a problem, which is the merger of the formal and informal labour market. Also, an important thing for younger citizens -- it brings opportunities for the unemployed to enter the labour market, which is now quite impossible. Thus, this discrimination of the unemployed is removed. The liberalisation of the labour market brings something that can be twice understood - uncertainty, not only for employers who already have it (means private employers), but also brings one uncertainty that is necessary for workers. We have to figure that out. However, the problems that exist with us are much greater than in other Eastern European countries, which have come to this liberalisation of the labour market. We have a problem with socialist overemployment, and that's something that came up 10 years ago, meaning something that is aimed at socialism, done at a time of great collectives. We also have something faced by other Eastern European countries, transition countries, which is pre-transitional and transition unemployment. Also, what is important, which is worse for us than in other Eastern European countries, is unemployment due to sanctions from the international community that we have suffered, practically, for the last 10 years. We also have problems with the psychology of workers. Unfortunately, we don't have salaries for the results of our work today. We have a problem in protecting against layoffs, as one instrument that brings rigidity to the labour market. When all of this is seen, it is seen that the liberalisation of the labour market is necessary to make foreign investments, in order to increase the efficiency of the economy. However, I will return to what is our particular problem: the liberalisation of the labour market, if done badly, if the law is inadequate or if it is not brought at the right time, can bring instability to the state. The instability or stability of the state is the main thing investors are about. So, you need to be careful, you need to make some compromises. The DSS, as a centre-right party, advocates the liberalisation of the labour market, advocates reforms. As a responsible party, we are aware that things can't be seen black and white. We today have two opposing concepts that are not only with us, but also in the world - it can be said that these are the concept of transition with shock therapy and the concept of transition step by step. Shock therapy is, as we know, one program that Jeffrey Sachs did 10 years ago, and now we have some new sightings of Mr. Stiggle, the Nobel Prize. These are two opposing concepts. It's not easy being smart to say what's good. Surely in the monetary sphere, what we do at the federal level means about a stable dinar's policy, about a solution to the banking system, that there's a shock -- therapy is a good solution. However, in the labour law, in the labour market, I think the gradual pathway is a better solution, so that social unrest does not occur. After this general story, what do we do? We have a law today on the work we need to discuss. The labour law has good solutions; however, the labour law should have one specific psychological preparation of employees. They have to understand everything I've said, so time has changed, that the standard doesn't come by itself, that the efficiency of the economy, which we all stand for, doesn't bring, can't bring something called job security, etc. It is also important that the law be prepared from the point of view of the current structure of our economy. So, if we had complete private property, private employers, it wouldn't likely be a question of passing a law like this, perhaps even in a more liberal form. However, our structure is that we have social property, that workers are afraid of certain things that are not related to their personal work, but are related to what a colleague Karaicic used to say, about the structure of social directors, about the structure of social property. When all of this comes to mind, there is a compromise to be made. I think that now compromise is only possible by amending the law, where we're going to fix some members of the law that, according to the DSS, are the kind of holes in the law that can serve to fire workers at a small door. We have to change them. One part of these amendments has been accepted. The second part of the amendment will be discussed and, depending on how these amendments are voted, the Democratic Party of Serbia will also take its stand. The important thing that has been in practice, which almost all political parties have accepted, is social dialogue. It was a good preparation for this law. We've had certain conversations with the unions. I agree that these unions aren't ideal, but as they are, they're the only ones that exist now. All the parliamentary groups, as you know, had these talks and made some compromises with the unions. I think they should stick to it now. The Democratic Party will stick to the agreement, vote for amendments agreed and, depending on the vote, on the outcome of the vote on these amendments, will also define its position on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14398	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14399	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today we have a debate on the labour law, and with all of our nearly 200 members, as far as this law is concerned, it seems to me to be one of the few systemic and even rare reform laws that we had in this assembly and in this mandate. The very fact that the creation of this law, or negotiation process and the rest, has lasted since 8 February, speaks of the complexity of this matter. I'd especially like to say something about union relations and authorized proposings related to this law. We know how it went. We know about all the controversy that occurred during this debate. The only thing is, at least to me, it's not clear enough -- what's agreed to the end of all this and what we're finally going to adopt through this debate, what's going to be the final text, and whether the final text of the law is really reform and systematic, or what's going to be a law that's going to be in a small part different from the existing labour law, and then the question is whether or not it should be passed. As far as this fact and the circumstances are concerned, we will eventually, when voted in general on the law, when we have everything seen and when we see practically what the law in general looks like, as a parliamentary club of reformists and the Sandzak Democratic Party, determine whether we will vote for it or not. If we were to talk about this law all the way we are here, or in the most part, about almost all the details, we wouldn't have enough of these 10 hours of discussion as far as we're supposed and voted; I don't even think it would be enough of that plus infinitely, and that's what the proposal was, to discuss this law. It is so large and complex, it is so important, that it is instructed that each of the MPs is talking about one part of it, so that we, as a whole, would practically have processed most of it, as much as possible. I would define myself to say something about a segment of this law. He's in this draft under regular number 13 and that division is called collective contracts. Only the adoption, i.e. the inclusion of collective agreements in this law was followed by certain controversy, certain disagreements, suspicions and so on. I'm aware of the fact that the collective contract itself by its name carries some connotation of some time behind us. However, by analysing what the promoter has suggested here, we can see that there are significant differences. These important differences consist of the fact that in the earlier period we had the highest form of collective bargaining, meaning so-called. the general collective contract, the significant role of the state. It was the state who practically signed the collective contract, in agreement with the unions, and we heard what our unions were like. It's all in our memory, and I agree with the previous debaters who characterized the union in the earlier period the way they characterized it. So in such conditions, the state was actually the authority that had the most impact on the collective agreement, in the way it prescribed certain things, and brought. Now we have another situation. It's practically about the parties to the signing, the formation of collective agreements, and how the general character, means a collective contract that applies at the level of the Republic, and to the collective contracts of the lower level, and they're still called by old names (I think they're appropriate terms), which are -- special and individual. What's the paper in this area, I don't know how much anyone noticed, is that a new category is being introduced, collective agreements formed on the basis of territories. I think it is a very significant shift in this segment called collective agreements, for the following reasons: we are aware that we live in a state that does not have equal development in all its areas, therefore, and conditions of engagement, employment conditions, employee status, employer status, are not equal in all parts of our country. There are tens of thousands of municipalities and you have, say, a Belgrade that has two million inhabitants. You'll allow there to be a significant difference in working conditions in such two environments. The possibility to sign collective agreements between interested parties at the level of the province, at the level of Belgrade and local self-government, and these are primarily representative employers' associations, even regulated, in order to eliminate that uncertainty, which means when there are a large number of employers in a given area. So, the employers' association, a representative association that makes up more than 10% of employers in that area, and on the other hand, it's a representative union that again represents the largest number of union-organised workers in the area. For us as reformists, the most important thing is that at the province level there is a possibility that a single fine regulation, through collective agreements, reflects the specific specificity of the area. We know there's a huge demographic problem in Vojvodina. We know that, on the other hand, there are certain advantages of the type of infrastructure, traffic and many other things in Vojvodina, so it is possible to make collective agreements which, of course, even under the provisions of this law, cannot be more restrictive than what the law provides, but can in one appropriate way regulate certain things that are important for certain territories, were those municipalities, provinces, the city of Belgrade, other cities or republics. That would be about what it's all about collective agreements. I would add just one more thing: we need to talk about this law every time to underline that we are in a phase of transition and that we are significantly accepting it as our environment that cannot be bypassed. Transition means a lot, but I don't want to talk about it right now. Many of the solutions in this labour law are, in my opinion, committed to a certain period of at least four years, as the Privatisation Act predicted that Serbia's economy would be privatised, at least in that part, and that tomorrow, in some happier period, we would talk a little differently, precisely because the economic structure would change. I'd say just one example, and I'll end up with it. For example, in Italy there is one city that is the city that I collect to Novi Sad, called Modena, which has ten times the national income per capita. They are presented in the employment structure in the following way: more than 60% of the employees in Modena are employed in companies that count to two employees. That's what the report said. What's important now in that case? Furthermore, one 10-15% of employees work in small and medium-sized enterprises and only a dozen and slightly more work in large enterprises. It's an economic structure that we need to strive for, and it talks first and foremost about the next -- people who are employed over 60% in personal work. It's a much more important bond law than work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14400	Mr. Marko Petrovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14401	Dear fellow Members, we have a key bill of reform, a draft labour law. He is a key reform law for treating exactly what the biggest storm in the public has produced, and this is the relationship between workers and employers. We must admit, all of us who live in this Serbia sooner or later will meet either in the role of one or in the role of another. We must therefore agree that this law was necessary as a law breaking up with former practice of self-management, as well as with the former practice of socialist capitalism that made the former regime in one artificial way and which has been overcome by the latest events since 5 October. However, what was to be done first? I think there were a few laws to be passed first, and that's the law on denationalisation, and then the law on labour, and only then, by the sequence of events, to pass the Privatisation Act. This is very often from this pay phone and said when the Law on Privatisation was on the agenda, and this shows practice, since some MPs have already mentioned that this law will also have problems in implementation, precisely because of some chronology in events. Well, the Privatisation Act itself has problems, because no labour law has been passed before. We know what kind of problems this law has, we know that we expect investors to be, but only when we round up the legislative process, that investors who invest are safe and in their capital, to be safe and workers who work, and in some ways to be safe and to make the profits they make. What are the two basic objectives of the law that we saw in front of New Serbia? The two basic objectives of the law, which are positive, of course, are that this law should affirm work and the results of work. All the laws so far absolutely did not put the work first. Work was one side thing. We know that famous wing: "No one can pay me as little as I can work. "Therefore, this law has one very positive thing, and that is what puts work and work results first. But also (not the opposite of work), it puts profit first, puts the employer whose primary interest in profit first, because without profit, we know well, there is no company progress, and there is no progress in society. Of course, profit was also a demeaning, discredited category which was mentioned in both theory and practice by underestimation. So we want to revitalize the profits. What is the other objective, very positive, of this law? It is that the practice of self-management and practice of social property is abolished. This law with one blow, so to speak, through these two liquids that have pulled us very far back and dragged us here where we are, which our whole community has so much to gain, which are self-government and social property, draws the line and they will no longer exist. However, this law also has some faults, and these shortcomings are those seen by many MPs here, who have produced great ferocity on the streets of Serbia and in Serbian firms, through the outpouring of union dissatisfaction, and who have been the topic in the negotiations here in parliament between all parliamentary groups (except the SRS which could participate and could not, but probably otherwise consulted with the trade unions, it was her right). But the unions here in the parliament building with all the parliamentary groups have been consulting and making their remarks about this law. There have also been some compromise solutions, which parliament and parliamentary groups have accepted. However, it seems that of what our parliamentary groups and we as parliament, as the supreme legislative body, have reached as some conclusion in negotiations between us and the unions, the Serbian government has accepted little. Of the many suggestions accepted by the DS-led group and by the DS-led group (and New Serbia attended both in one and the other hall, so to speak, one and the other day), very little was accepted -- it seems to me, the fifteen amendments, plus the four amendments that the government itself has submitted. That's not a quarter of what the negotiations have accepted. This will be seen later, during the vote on amendments and in the vote of New Serbia, because we believe this law was necessary, but amendment makeup is also necessary, in order to achieve what Mr Karaicic said, given that private and social rights are treated absolutely equally. Private and social enterprises are treated equally, which is not bad, but in times of transition it is also so bad. It is very good in stable societies, there is no private, these and those properties - there is property or not property. But in times of transition, especially after everything we've been experiencing for ten years, and that, we must admit, has not experienced either the Czech Republic or Poland, or all the countries of the eastern bloc that have been in transition, and we've had to pass these anti-monopol laws, which we've passed, and the Extraprofit Act, and they've been created just as a result of the sanctions they've been. So we were in a far more difficult position and we had such a situation that social and private property couldn't be treated equally by this law. There was also a proposal to delete Article 105, which directly treats these problems. However, at the congregation meeting, it seems to me that there will also be the biggest problems with that article 105. We will see what happens here - whether it will have to be done and that social and private property and directors of social and private enterprises are treated differently in this article. We have to admit that the directors of private companies, because the owners of their companies, have to be treated in one way, and those people who, as my predecessor, Mr. Karaičić said, have in some other way become the managers of these companies and have come into special privileged positions and somehow manage rather than the people who own the firm, must also be covered by these laws. That's where we come to another flaw in this law, and that's because he doesn't take our society as a transition, but he takes it as definitely complete, and he doesn't treat this society as a society of change, but he treats it as a society that, after this law, needs literally to behave like this and no other way. Therefore, the New Serbia position will be that, in principle and in principle, this law must be adopted and accepted, because breaking up with the former regime and the former system, but to God, through the amendments that come here, we will leave our conscience and our attitude to see how and how we will vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14402	He has the word Mr. Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14403	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, I don't think there was any dilemma here -- indeed, as deputy head of the parliamentary group, I have the right to use the time foreseen for the performance of the head of the parliamentary group, which is 20 minutes, as I recall, according to the Rules of Procedure. The need for the adoption of this law lies primarily in the extremely poor status of workers, especially in the production and economic performance, as well as in the implementation of start-up and projected economic reforms. If these reasons are, practically, some of the defined objectives of our transition, then it is clear - a positive environment must be provided, and that means, among other things, adequate functioning of labour legislation. Regardless of our specifics, and above all, I think of market economy requirements and our economic development, it was not possible for the practice of transition countries to apply in this sphere, and not only transition countries, but also common European labour legislation. In this regard, in the drafting of this law, it was primarily from the Convention and the Recommendations of the International Labour Organisation, which primarily took account of the provision of conditions for the functioning of small and medium-sized enterprises, as a major factor, if not the foundation, of our future economic development. It also concerned the rights and obligations of employees, eligible working conditions, the rights of the employer, material and social security, the simplification of the complex needs so far in establishing the working relationship and all the anomalies that existed. In that sense, I hope and am deeply convinced, at least on the basis of Articles 13 and 14 which define the prohibition of discrimination in employment, there will be no more respect for the argument of a member of this party or that party, as we had in the previous period, that the argument is whether or not another member was in charge of establishing a working relationship. Afterwards, discipline, disciplinary responsibility, and the need to work as an employee were taken into account. In particular, I would point out here some categories which, by my deep conviction, differ significantly from the previous law, in the sense that they truly make it work, rather than unworkable, which, in the majority of their members, was the previous law. In fact, I think a relapse, a communist relapse, is being dragged through our education, which is that we go to school primarily in order to make as little money as possible, will no longer be able to affect the workplace. This will disable a specific category, defined in this law, called a ban on competition. In fact, it is not necessary to stress here that many workers, especially those in the administrative sector and in the administrative bodies of individual enterprises, have done jobs in their place of work on their own behalf and on their own account. A large number of them used their offices, or the space they worked in, to operate their own companies rather than the companies where they were employed. I think that by reducing the unwarranted reasons for firing employees, there is a significant increase in the rights that cannot be found without reason on the street. As I said, he will no longer be a member of this party or that party able to, regardless of the quality of his work, continue to be employed. And in the end, I would like, as a participant in the talks with the representatives of the Soviets, to register, if not to try to remove a dilemma that is getting in our public these days. In fact, it's about what's agreed and what's not, what's true about what the representatives of the Soviet Union say. I was in a group with Mr Cedomir Jovanovic on 25 October for talks with the representatives of the Soviet Union. I claim, and that's true, that on that occasion in a pretty long conversation, about six hours, we almost agreed all the views, although they say now, according to this information that I got just before I came out for this pay phone, that their amendments attacked 102 members and that this is one of the reasons why this law is not valid. I'd say if we agreed to fix only 30 of those 102 members, they'd rather talk about not being valid amendments, but not being a good bill. This is really true, because for hours, we've talked about individual members and there's nothing left to agree on. I was particularly impressed with the way in which this conversation was being conducted, because I felt that although there were formally two sides, however, from the point of view of the goal, as if it were one side, since we both had a basic goal of rights and obligations for workers. Finally, after the conversation was concluded, Mr. Smiljanic really said that it was not good to go out with one explicit information in the sense that I was saying, therefore, that everything was agreed. Because, well, he didn't manage to go through his organs and get some confirmation, but he asked, simply, to wait, and let's just say that we've achieved a high degree of consent. After all, the very end of these conversations and what happened afterwards, after the press conference, in the sense of one less celebration of all that was agreed, speaks in favor of this claim that I was talking about here. So, the Sandzak Democratic Party and the Vojvodina Reformists, along with all the amendments that were accepted -- not only by agreement, is it the 24, as the president of the Industry Committee said yesterday, or the 30th, as we agreed at the time, counting that some of the other parties would also be accepted here by the Assembly -- and what will greatly improve this bill's proposal, will give their vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14404	Dear President, fellow Members and fellow Members, here is dear colleague Michael laughing and I will begin with this very laugh of his, uh, my discussion of the proposal for this law. If he were to now argue that this is one of the few reform laws offered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then I would absolutely agree with him, as I would agree with the other representative of the DSS, who said this law really creates conditions for the liberalisation of the labour market as a basic precondition for future reform realization. I would also say that this is one of the few laws that has been in preparation for a very long time, not to use another term, where the shine of the participants participated in its creation, in discussions, discussions, amendments, etc. We are witnessing that the two largest unions in the Republic of Serbia, when they were told they were not able to achieve all their intentions in terms of opposing the bill when they organised protests of workers, had to talk to representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but it was also a very wise move by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the parliamentary groups that agreed to discuss these objections with union representatives, which they had recently had, on the proposal of this law. I must indeed say that, as one of the few, this law is well-balanced between the interests of employers and the interests of workers. If this law is properly read and correctly understood, it will be seen from it that the employer has more interest in protecting the rights of his workers than will be protected by trade unions. When a balance of the employer’s interests (and this is the work and achievement of profits) and the interests of workers (right to work and to make as much money as possible), then these two interests are so pervaded that the employer actually keeps practically his worker and every good worker. For these reasons, we must take seriously the behaviour of representatives of union organizations at this point, who throw so many trees and stones at the final version of this law. Even in their letter, addressed to the Serbian Parliament and to the heads of parliament groups, they also say: "If only what the government has certain orders to do to the Assembly is adopted, then, like all, it will be responsible for any protests that our members will want us to organise for them, which will be decided by the Greater Union of the Union of Serbia." I had the intention, Mr. President and gentlemen of the Parliament, to propose to you today, because at 11 am, gentlemen of Parliament, forgive me, that today a delegation of this Parliament attends a session of the Council of the Union of Serbia which is now under way, began at 11 o'clock, and to try to conduct with them a proper discussion on the basis of this information that they provided us two hours ago, which speaks of activities related to the adoption of labour law. There they very well defined all the activities in which the Union of Serbian Unions and the Union of Independence participated in the procedure of passing this law, and they also gave all their amendments, gave an overview of the amendments that were in line with individual parliamentary groups. I have read all of their amendments (71) and I can say that I have found one who in almost 50% of their amendments is permeated: this is a different position of this law which speaks about the contract of employment between the employer and workers from the union's position to talk about a collective contract, a general or a special collective contract. The only contradiction between the union's position and the law's position is that. Indeed, it is not so much worth this much noise, protesting and distracting workers, because only by proper implementation of this law will the workers be extremely interested and will be satisfied that the conditions will finally be created for the privatisation process to begin first. Without implementing the Privatisation Act, our economy and our workers have no perspective in the future. The implementation of this law will create conditions for foreign investors, who will be ready to invest their resources in joint production and past the privatisation process. Finally, conditions will be created for foreign partners to work on a joint product through jobs, as they will have a stable, democratic and in the interest of workers a system law that regulates this area. I would like to tell you once again that the PDS MPs working within the DOS will support the bill. We will support all those amendments that contribute to its improvement, with the desire to end this debate and definitely adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14405	The People's MP Petar Petrovic has the word, followed by Miodrag Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14406	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, the system of working relations, which has since 1 January 1997 been governed by the Federal Law on the Fundamentals of Working Relations and the Republic Labour Law, has been one of the most significant legal systems since 1 January 1997, because the solutions contained in those laws depend on the legal and material security of a large number of citizens who are working and who are in a working relationship. The Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group will support a new Republic law in this area only provided that it is prepared on the basis of previous comprehensive consideration of existing solutions by scientific and professional institutions, so that new solutions are not only appropriated by foreign ones, but above all by our conditions, which do not further undermine the rights of employees and which will be brought into line with the solutions set out in the federal law. However, the draft labour law is not prepared on the basis of the above points. It contains a large number of solutions that significantly reduce the rights of workers, which do not agree with the solutions set out in the federal law. This is probably because the sole objective of the legislator of this law is to make it acceptable for the employer, or owner of capital, which should contribute to a cheaper and faster sale of social enterprises. That is also confirmed by Minister of Labour and Employment Dragan Milovanovic, in a statement issued on the basis of the Bill's proposal, by the list "Politika", which was published on June 5th 2001. I will quote only part of Mr. Milovanovic's statement: "The proposal is for this law to be the support of other laws, above all, of privatisation. Working legislation hasn't changed here in years. The employees had many rights on paper, but in practice it was inconclusive. Foreigners who are interested in investment would certainly not come to us if the regulations did not change, because they want to fully manage businesses. "In doing so, the minister neglects the fact that privatisation has just begun with us and that it will take years for all social firms to become private property, whose only criterion and interest will be good workers' work, not sympathy or antipathies towards them. What will happen until then in social enterprises, when, according to the proposed solutions in this law, the employer, i.e. The director can easily fire any worker who is unsatisfactory, especially in companies below 50 employees, is not difficult to assume. Therefore, they do not surprise the justified reactions, i.e. Protests of a huge number of employees through the Union of Serbian Unions, the United Border Unions "Nondependence" and the Health Union. If the government assessed the need for valid solutions in labour regulations to be changed, and we of the Serbian Unity Party believe that some changes are necessary, it had plenty of time to hand over the initiative to the Federal Government for amendments and amendments to federal law, to parallelly with these amendments to the provisions of the Republic's law and to submit it to the National Assembly upon adoption of the federal law. The relevant republican law is prepared by regulating the overall system of working relationships. In this law, solutions contained in federal law have been taken over, these solutions are closer developed, and certain issues and relations that are not governed by federal law have been fully settled. In this way, one law is regulated in general by all labour law institutes. However, the draft labour law ignores the solutions contained in the federal law, i.e. a series of solutions contained in the law are not regulated at all, and many are regulated in a way contrary to the relevant solutions contained in the federal law. This approach is also contrary to the provisions of Article 115(2). The Constitution of the SRJ, under which laws, other regulations and general acts of the Republic of Members must be in accordance with federal law. I'd spend a lot of time taxing what all the proposals in the Labour Law bill don't agree with the current federal labour law, but I'll try just a few notes to document it. The federal law regulates some solutions that are not contained in this bill. For example, the provisions of Article 9 of the federal law provide for the employer's obligation to report the need to complete the job and the conditions for the job to the organisation responsible for employment activities, which is required to advertise the job. These provisions have been adopted and developed closer in the current Republic law (Art. Nine and ten.But in the bill of law that is before us, they are not contained at all. This has injured the principle contained in the provision of Article 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to which every job is available under equal conditions. The provisions of Article 11(3) of the federal law have established the obligation of the employer to conclude a work contract with a person established by a working relationship before his start of work and to report it to organisations responsible for employment and pension and disability insurance activities, in accordance with the law. This provision has been adopted by the applicable Republic law (Article 11(1)).But in the bill of law it's not contained at all. The provisions of Article 43(2) of the federal law have established that a disabled person cannot stop working as a "technological surplus" until he is entitled to a pension or, with his consent, one of the rights laid down by this law. This provision has been adopted by the applicable Republic law (Article 26(4)).), but it is not contained in the bill. The provisions of Articles 56 to 60 of the federal law lay down disciplinary bodies and disciplinary procedures. It is governed by the Republic law, Articles 90 to 99, but there is no such thing in the bill. Also, the draft labour law proposes some solutions that do not comply with federal law. For example, the provisions of Article 1. The draft law, as well as other numerous provisions on the regulation of rights, obligations and responsibilities, the contract of employment concluded by the employer and the employee is equal to the collective contract. A number of provisions point to a direct settlement between the employer and the employee, not further development by collective agreement, which is not acceptable, as it can lead workers of the same profession and abilities to an unequal position. According to federal law (Art. 1st and 3rd) the labour contract is an individual act which, in accordance with the law and collective agreement, is based on working relationship and regulates labour rights and obligations. The provisions of Article 26 propose solutions governing a working relationship for a certain period of time, resulting in the possibility of being based on each employer’s place of work and that such a working relationship may last for the longest three years. In the light of the reasons given by this member, it has been stated that the working relationship has been set on new grounds for a certain period of time, starting with the needs and requirements of the market, and that there are no cases where a contract can be concluded for a certain period of time. This particular definition is contrary to the provisions of Article 10(2) of the federal law, according to which a working relationship for a specified time can only be based in cases established by law. In accordance with this provision, these cases are governed by the provisions of Article 40 of the applicable Republic law. The provisions of Article 65(1) point 4 shall apply. The draft law proposes that employees be at rest of the rights and obligations that are achieved at work and on the basis of work, if they are absent from work for the maintenance of prison sentences, i.e. measures of security, educational and protective measures, for up to three months. However, Article 32(3) of the federal law lays down a period of six months for the rest of the working relationship in those cases, which is also contained in the provision of Article 62(4) of the applicable Republic law. And so on, it would go a long way if I were still to list the inconsistencies of federal law with the proposed draft labour law, but I would say another. By order of Article 103, point 1. 1st and 2nd. The draft law has been proposed that the employer may unconditionally cancel an employment contract if it is established that the employee does not realize the results of the work, or if it has been established that the employee does not have the necessary knowledge and ability to carry out the work on which he works. However, under the provisions of Articles 17 and 64, paragraph 1 of the Federal Act, in those cases, the employer may resign only if the employee does not accept the schedule to another place of work that corresponds to his skills or if he does not have such a job. The provisions of Article 116 shall apply. The bill proposes a solution whereby an employer who has a working relationship with an indefinite period of time of more than 50 employees, and does not hesitate to cancel a working contract for more than 10% of the employees of the total number of employees during the calendar year due to technological, economic and organisational changes, is obliged to adopt an extra-employee resolution programme, as well as to bring the programme into co-operation with the organisation responsible for employment activities. This provision is contrary to the provisions of Article 44 of the federal law under which each employer is obliged to establish a programme for the exercise of the rights of employees for whose work the need has ceased, and to notify the trade union and the competent employment organisation of the reasons for the termination of employment, number and categories of employees within a month of the date of the adoption of the programme and the deadline within which he intends to terminate the employment relationship. Ladies and gentlemen, out of the blue, considering that all parliamentary parties in the National Assembly, at least verbally, are in favour of the survival of the redefined federal state, which certainly implies that they are also in favour of federal laws, I hope that the bill will not receive principled support. In any case, the Serb Unity Party parliamentary group will not support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14407	The word has Minister Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14408	Just a few sentences regarding the debate of the MPs. On 8 February, when the work on the law began, the Ministry of Labour sent a letter to the Federal Ministry and proposed that it be involved in the work on the draft of this law and enter into the procedure of amending the federal labour law. All the time working on this bill, the Federal Ministry has been involved, so now the Secretariat has arrived, and the letter I am going to present to the Assembly, which says the Federal Ministry will bring the Federal Labour Law into line with this law. It can because in this country everything can, you know. You probably know that the federal labour law applies only to the territory of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14409	The word has been made by MP Miodrag Stamenkovic. Replica? Well, there's no replica, he didn't mention you. He just gave an interpretation. There's no replica for that. The word is Miodrag Stamenkovic, followed by MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14410	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the first of the debaters in yesterday's debate said that this law is a key and reform law that surrounds a set of reform laws. I'd just partly agree with that, because he is one of the key ones. However, both order and composition should be slightly different. As the young colleague said today, we had to discuss the law on denationalisation first, so that the transition law solved the problems that would arise in transition, and then the law on labour and the Law on privatisation. Therefore, I say, this is a key and reform law that should allow for the inflow of capital, to increase employment in new conditions. However, as one of yesterday's debaters once again said: this is the worst law. But when it's the worst for that side, it's probably the best for us. Why? Because it interrupts all relations with the previous system, abolishs social property, shuts down self-management, so we can't weigh, we're directly proportional, so once again I say not the best, but it's around here somewhere. As far as the union's reaction is concerned, this kind of reform circle, i.e. This reform of the system means always social consensus. (I'd like to ask my colleague from Leskovec, Mr. President, to apologize. ) When it came to the Law on Privatisation, an agreement was made, i.e. A social consensus agreement has been reached, part of the union respected it, but some have already jumped to a dive the next day. Now that in this process of harmonising the labour law, the ministry says it respected the unions, that it consulted them. However, their fierce reaction turned out to be very unrespectable. If we observe their demands essentially, the question that the union's demands should be respected is raised. What am I talking about? On one committee, I said, right, and we're from New Serbia for maximum protection of employees. This law provides some protection, which we will also try to strengthen with amendments, which we will accept as proper. The protection they had in the previous system was nothing. One of my colleagues said yesterday that no member grows up and provides better conditions than they are in the old law. Yes, it is taxing on paper, but look what protection our workers had. Across Serbia, from south to north, I guarantee you that more than 70% of employees did not exercise the right to pension insurance because they were not paid contributions. Social security was not granted because they were not paid contributions. They were fictitiously employed. Even, ladies and gentlemen, they haven't even earned a profit. They didn't have it, they got some change, occasionally in the name of warm meals and regresses, if it's protection. This kind of protection that it is, but real, sets better protection. Therefore, a social consensus is necessary, because without it, reforms cannot succeed. In this, everyone has to lower their aim and agree on how best to carry out this difficult and painful process. The reform, as one committee said one ministerial assistant, can't hurt, so this one will hurt too. When it comes to the amendments that have been submitted to this law, I just want one brief analysis to be made. 218 amendments were submitted to 183 members. However, since the law is set out in chapter 18, it is interesting to see what areas are mostly treated with amendments, it means that these are key areas of concern for MPs and the population. There are some amendments to the first two chapters, where working relationships are based and where the basic provisions are. The most amendments are right in the central part, where compensation for damages, termination of employment, achievement and protection of employees' rights, etc. is mentioned. So, right where we're talking about protection. We are from New Serbia, normally we will support this law in principle, because we are not against reforms. On the contrary, we are for reform. By accepting some amendments, we will try to correct this law, to increase the protection of employees, while at the same time not jeopardising the interests of the employer or preventing the inflow of capital. One more thing I want to talk about, and rarely anyone who's looked back on it so far, which is exactly the protection of the disabled. I've spoken to representatives of several disabled associations, civil invalid war associations, fighters, etc. Look, the frat information I came up with is fraternizing. They're a little bit of a thinker. Articles 80 and 81, and even amendments proposed to these articles, provide absolutely no protection for persons with disabilities. Here's why. These members and amendments only ensure that a disabled person cannot be cancelled. Is that sewn? I was told by the President of the Executive Board of Civil Disabilities War Alliance: sir, our last employee is 1984. For the past 10 years, they've been suspended from all rights. They no longer have the right to banana treatment, and these are people. However, the amendments say they cannot be fired. They don't work, gentlemen, the problem is with those who need to work. If someone is protected by the law, that they can't cancel it, they won't hire him, because there's no interest. It's not protection. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Why didn't you give the amendment? I'm not you to you, but we're not gonna talk about it. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: You have changed four parties, for me you are you. ) Given that this is a large population that deserves a little more interest, I think the Serbian government will have to deal with one of the laws, not with this law, benefits from employment and tax incentives, to allow such persons to come to their jobs and make a fair profit of their bread.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14411	Thank you. The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and the next Messenger of the people is Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14412	Madam Vice President, I have told this speaker several times that it is a disgrace and humiliation for the MP to speak in front of a hall where there is not half the number of MPs needed, so I am advertising Article 82(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. To continue our work, please determine and secure the quorum first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14413	By applying the Rules of Procedure, Article 82(5), if the MP raises doubts about the existence of quorum established by the application of the electronic voting system, the President of the National Assembly shall put into account the computer copy of the Members of Parliament present. The electronic system shows that we have 132 MPs. We have a quorum. It will be delivered to you, the president of your parliamentary group, a copy. Here, you have a word. (Veroljub Arsic, standing next to the pay phone:Look, in the fifth row you have an identification for seven MPs, and... I ask the service, if there are any cards left, to remove them from the parliamentary units... (Veloljub Arsic:The system is not right for you. I gave you my word. I think the system's fine. Paragraph 4 says - if the electronic voting system is not in place, which is being notified by the National Assembly president, the quorum is determined by the count. I think the system's fine. Please, don't waste your time, I gave you my word. Do you want to talk or should I call the next one? I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. [[Zagor - no quorum.]] (A number of MPs leaving the O.R.) After six minutes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14414	I figure we've got a quorum and we can keep working. The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and then Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14415	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister said in his opening statement that employers, trade unions and ultimately the government participated in the draft law. When it comes to the government, it's all clear. This law will certainly make Mr. Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic the happiest, not the workers, because of the shift of the age limit to achieve pension rights for 65 years, so that a large number of workers will not even experience retirement, and will fill Djelic's budget without problems. When it comes to employers, as Mr. Minister said, I don't know which employers he meant -- are those who are currently here in the country or employers from the West, who are going to be in a sale called privatisation to buy the Serbian economy? To be honest, I don't think these new employers actually wrote this law, which, in their wildest, bravest dreams, they can't carry out in their own countries, but they gave it to us. Why can't they enforce such a law in their own countries? Because they have well-organized unions. And how are our unions? We have the Association of Independent Trade Unions, whose President-in-Office is the current Mr. Minister this morning. The current president of the union is Mr. People's MP. Here, they're waving at me from the bench. Now I wonder what unions the government has been negotiating with? With you. When it comes to Mr. Smiljanic, he's a bit of a wretch here now and he's rebelling, otherwise DOS's lawyer. It even seems to me that he was on the DEPOS list for the MP. DEPOS is an overrun DOS. The question arises: what was going on with these unions and these protests that the unions conducted? I think that the workers in this case were abused, that they were lied to by their union leaders, that there was a real danger, because of the announcement of this law, that the workers themselves went out into the streets. So that's where they say - we better do it through the union. So much for my time, as I got from the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14416	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14417	Dear President, ladies and colleagues, I would agree with my colleague Kovacevic that this is one of the few reform laws we have received from the government. I'd like to, so Serbia's citizens probably expected more. Just because it's a reform law; because we of the DSS are not a party that can be counted as left parties, but rather a party of the right center, which advocates market economy, private property, a different concept than we've had so far; so we're not a party in the way that trade unions are going to take care of that interest. We believe that this is a reform law, a law that needs to be regulated in a whole new way by a particular area, that when making this law, all who will participate in it must be taken into account. So this is, let me say, one side of the law that comes to us from the government, which is that these laws only experience their real public debate when they enter the congregation procedure. It's something that, I mean, it's not good at work, because then we have to go through some tense business interpretations and variations to fix this law. I don't think it had to be that the union talks only started when the law entered into the procedure, that these talks in the Serbian Parliament, which were made in the way they were made, had to be conducted much earlier and that we would have much more time to coordinate these ambiguities that would exist after these talks. In my opinion, it's one of the basic remarks that can be directed at the proposals of the system laws that come from the government. So, as a party in favour of market economy, private capital, for a far more liberal state than we have now, for a liberal labour market, we are aware of the fact that there must be social dialogue and social consensus, and especially when this law is passed. This is a law that probably affects most of Serbia's citizens, which affects those who are and who will be able to work. He's supposed to take care of this important area, I hope, for the next ten years. This is a law that is not passed every day, especially since we have strategic definitions that depict the very character of the authority that brings it. When adopting such important laws, comprehensive analyses must take place, especially in parallel - legal, especially countries in transition and the European Union, groups of countries whose we seek to be a member, notably contentally, informally, on the character of the government and on the occasion of the country's rule. Of course, these solutions should not be taken for granted, but should be brought into line with the solutions and needs of the state of Serbia and the SRJ. Those solutions must reflect the opportunities and societies we seek. We're a country in transition. We need to be a little visionary when we're setting up an area. We know that passing such laws will always cause a variety of confrontations and conflicts, that there will never be absolute consent. But about one bill, especially this one, there must be a consensus behind which the largest number of parties will stand, as well as the largest working-age population in Serbia. This must be a law of co-operation, not of conflict, because if we adopt a law that will produce conflicts after adoption, there is nothing from reform. The key thing is that in the next year, we have to deal with change and reform, not solving strikes and non-working protests. That is why I believe that this law must be, above all, a law that will be the fruit of social consensus, of social agreement, so that we do not deal with strikes for a year and therefore delay the implementation of reforms in Serbia. Are reforms more important or is insistence more important on some of the solutions that it can and does not have to be? I think there are more important reforms. This government and this assembly must do everything to speed up reforms. That is why it is necessary to do everything possible to avoid conflicts that can arise in the implementation and adoption of this law already now, not to resolve these conflicts in some separatist agreements, whether it will be Governments and trade unions, which may not be in accordance with the law. It is something that this congregation, when making a decision and when discussing this law, must have in mind. The position of the DSS is that we were more than prepared to co-operate with the government on this bill. Several meetings were held with the minister and his associates. Some of our amendments were adopted, some of the amendments we withdrew. It simply speaks of the fact that we want this Serbia to get a new labour law, we want that law to be good and accept it most of Serbia's citizens. Our willingness to co-operate on amendments and to correct the text of this law continues to exist, which would give us conditions for the DSS to support this bill. We are so far unable to support this text of the bill. We're not voting for him in principle. Of course, after the discussion in detail, we'll see. But so far, we are unable to support the text of the bill. What is important, equally as the adoption of laws and formal regulation of one area by means of regulation, is the willingness to respect these laws. A good law that enforces a bad government will be a bad law. That's the essential thing. If we have those who don't comply with the laws, good laws simply won't be visible. Thus, on one occasion, it can be shown how the law is respected or not respected. We are witnesses these days that the directors of health centres and institutions in Serbia are illegally being replaced. The deputy minister against the law is anti-constitutionalally replacing directors who are not from his political option. It says that a good law, if carried out by a bad government and it's illegal, will not be a law that can regulate this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14418	The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14419	Ladies and gentlemen, labour law is one of the crucial laws that defines the relationship between two levers of each system that seeks to be successful, which is between employers and workers. In this regard, the SPS and its MPs, looking at the quality of the proposed labour law, proposed that the labour law be withdrawn from the procedure and given the chance for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to have two key trade unions, which gather about 90% of the employees, the Alliance of Independent Unions and the Union of Independence, prepare a better quality variant of the labour law, which will respect acquired rights, above all workers, so that they come before us with a better solution to the labour law. Unfortunately, we had only 60 votes to withdraw and we couldn't fight through the vote to get the law out of the process. If we were right, it says the fact that we have over 200 amendments to this law today and that we are essentially going to have a very difficult discussion, with a very uncertain outcome. By regulating the Labour Act in an appropriate way the relations between employers and workers, and the new draft labour law significantly reduces the rights of workers acquired. No one here wants to jeopardize the employer's position, especially to compromise the employer's position in these conditions as being designed by those legal solutions adopted in this assembly. We need to talk about an environment in which this labour law should be applied. It is clear that the tax policy, which the majority in this assembly adopted and established in the country, has made one number of workers known in the meantime as a technological surplus or lost their jobs, because employers are more rigorous and twice as high, in terms of total burden, tax policy essentially came into a position that they have to work much more rationally and that one part of the workers is technologically excess or lose their jobs. The Privatisation Act, as adopted, in a limited period of time, essentially offers the market a large number of companies, reduces the value of the companies offered and thus creates a chance for those who become company owners to behave much more rigorously towards workers found in businesses. In the finance ministry's budget, we had three billion planned for social policy, and we don't have a daily explanation of how those three billion are being spent, which is the social programme adopted, conceived, based on whom support is being given to those who remain unemployed? So the miles in which this labour law should be applied are extremely unfavourable for workers, because a number of qualified situations where it is possible to expect that a large number of workers will be out of work. As a result, we believe that this draft labour law does not have the right to remove the acquired privileges of workers, which have been acquired by the talks, such as these days between the Government, or parliament, in the earlier period, which have resulted in an extremely high quality document for workers, which is a collective contract. The collective contract, as such, primarily defines the area of earnings, employment and the area of job layoff. It can't be said that a collective contract in different forms doesn't live in Europe. In many European countries, there are forms that define the negotiation process between trade unions and employers, which primarily defines the area of profit and other employment and layoff elements. The relativisation of collective agreements with the word "or", where the employer is allowed to use the labour or collective contract rule, is effectively brought by the employer into a completely understandable position for him, to decide on the labour rules, because he himself prescribes it, defines it, rather than a collective contract, where it is necessary to enter into negotiations with trade unions and define the area of earnings, employment and layoffs. So, that relativisation and, in fact, eradicating the collective contract as a document that is the ultimate achievement for the position of workers in the past period, is the reason why we will not vote in favour of the labour law in principle, and after considering the amendments, unless our amendments are accepted, and in particular, i.e. in general. The second area that was mentioned here yesterday, which I would like to point out briefly and ask you to have understanding, is an area related to women workers: a drastic deterioration in the position of women workers; a foster child who is born to a third child, because they no longer have the right for two years to be on maternity leave; maternity parents have a defined maternity leave of only three months, which guarantees them 100% personal income, as if they are working. The story of child care, that father has the right to foster a child for nine months instead of maternity care, is a story that still needs to be discussed: what is the personal income, what is then the adoption of maternity care; whether they are then in the category of sickness, whether they are a percentage, 60, 70, 80% of the average personal income; or whether they are to believe in the word that they will be 100%, the flat incomes that the maternity would make it work, that's just a story. And talking about parts of the labour law, where even pregnant women are supposed to have night shifts, if the employer decides to do so, it's groundless. So there are a number of elements why we decided not to vote for this law in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14420	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, after almost a month and a little more days since this session was scheduled, the labour law has come. Certainly taking into account the importance of this law in itself, the resolution ministry has included in the creation of this law and leading legitimate unions, such as the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia, the Association of Free and Independent Trade Unions, as well as all others who were interested, as it believes their participation can contribute to the development of a better text of the law. The proposed law is based on those solutions which have already been implemented and which already exist in transition countries. This law introduces unique rights and obligations for employees, regardless of which sector they operate. In order for this law to be better understood, one broader context must be considered in the time when it is actually being brought. Some will already say in this room -- here, they're going back to what used to be and they're going to ask again what was left over from the previous period. That, gentlemen, is reality. Mass unemployment in Serbia, the legacy is huge. Twenty people without a job compete for a job in Serbia. There are 700,000 people on the labour market, of which 300,000 are without any qualifications. In addition to restructuring the economy, our main task is to raise the level of qualifications of the unemployed workforce. No one, of domestic employers, particularly in Serbia, is in the interest of an unqualified workforce and also of a foreign investor. In order to be able to participate equally in the competition, we need to raise labour quality. It is painful and cruel truth that our citizen who has gone abroad is very easy to achieve envious results and easily fits into the European system of work, and so far his colleague in Serbia, with the same abilities, with the same expertise, the same qualifications, promotes the thesis that no one can pay him as little as he can work. Why the systems that are so simple - how much you do, how much you earn - couldn't have been applied in Serbia, why only in Serbia had to have a moral-political resemblance to get a workbook and a job, why in Serbia there had to be a party cell in power in certain social enterprises, and soon there was one in the Kragujevaska flag, an interesting political organisation that took care of who, how and where to work. Why did the level of personal income often depend on those so many mentioned managers, bosses, and various shift leaders? What is this disease thanking the employees of Serbia? We know very well: this disease is called working self-management, and this is what we want to root out of Serbia. Why did some unions raise their voice against this law? Again, we need to be realistic about ourselves -- because these people, who are union leaders, are promoters of the former government, people who think that reforms can move without making any significant changes. Why did such and similar protests not occur when their workers, their colleagues, received one German wage mark? Who else in Serbia criticises this law? So they criticise those who left 672 billion dinars in debt, those who left more than 20 billion dinars in 650 social and public enterprises, in which they worked about 200,000 Serbian citizens. Those who pushed these workers into living shields to guard the companies, which gave them five, six or seven years ago one German brand or worthless dinars, so they ran to the streets to get a little more shit, because if they were a few minutes late, they would already have a lower salary. Those who put these workers in the caves, to wait for all sorts of important comrades who will give them, as one has already said, comrades, who will give them prosperity and bring the company into the world. The proposed law should enable everyone to know precisely when entering a job, which personal income he will receive, and based on the labour contract, where the criteria are specified, so that everyone will know on the basis of these elements what pay is due if he accepts a particular job. The employees will, therefore, receive a future salary based on the work effect and the time spent at work. Although logical, this system has not been implemented in Serbia so far, especially under this law that is now in force, which was adopted in December 1996. According to the laws in force now, the rate of earnings was the price of a job that each individual of the workers had. Also, the changes are scheduled, and that's the fact again, that's our life, the part about the use of sick. A member of the 82nd Law has been proposed that if the employer suspects that his employee is abused, he has the right to request closer notice from a health care institution where he is being treated. Unfortunately, we have contributed to such a solution ourselves. The trade unions made their differences, believing that the proposed solution offends the dignity of a sick worker and that we interfere in the procedure of providing health services. We need to be realistic and admit that sick leave have often been abused, especially in large companies. I again cite the example of Kragujeva's flag, and again I say how many workers with these false pains have finished their private affairs, especially on the estates from which they fled to the factories and left the estates unworked. All in all, this law and this power in Serbia are trying to free themselves from self-management shackles, and unfortunately they still exist. That's what the previous ones mentioned. We want to establish those criteria that are recognised and known everywhere in the world. This law helps the awake, not those who would sleep and dream forever. The situation in which Serbia came after democratic changes is very simple: or we will start to reform, i.e. at the risk that change and reform itself or we will leave this problem to the descendants, so that they too may deal with these issues and curse us for leaving them with a great burden of burden. Probably, as someone said, that we wouldn't be so far behind if we hadn't had a period of bitter development that our previous government led us through. We have been given the mandate of Serbian citizens to change and do so - we are taking Serbia to Europe and the world. We're not going to act like the previous government, who's always stuck her head in the sand in front of all the problems, whenever it was supposed to work, the former government was making lunches, when the people were supposed to be saved, they sang on the bridges, and no wonder the people fired them. I just want, my dear friends from DOS, to mention one thing about the labour law; many are criticizing us that the Serbian Parliament is not working properly, so I just want to make one truth: the previous assembly call from 1997 to 2000, so about four years, they worked so hard, they sat down for a total of 51 days; one day they worked during the war. This congregation assembly from January 22nd to today works 82 days and passed 46 laws. As much as anyone liked it or not, we don't care, but the fact that this assembly council is good and quality, and I, gentlemen of the DOS, congratulate you on that. We're going to meet here for many more days, we're going to be making reform laws like this, we're working on this, but the fact is that it's the only way we're going to be able to say "via vita" to Latina. The way is life, and the way we go is life for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14422	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to show you how you work and that you have little reason to rejoice, I point to the violation of Rules of Procedure, Articles 102, 117 and 118. Article 102: "O order at the meeting of the National Assembly is the president of the National Assembly. "Article 117, please do not count this time of quoteing to the Rules of Procedure, the MPs are obliged to use their identification cards exclusively, as well as to identify themselves when entering the O.R.... For a MP who uses the card of another MP, or otherwise abuses the electronic voting system, the National Assembly president proposes a move away from the session, and the vote in which the abuse was committed will be annulled and will be immediately approached by identification and re-voting." Article 118: "The MPs are obliged to carry the identification cards with them when leaving the National Assembly. If the MP leaves the National Assembly Hall and leaves in the MP’s unit, or next to it, his identification card, the National Assembly Service will immediately deliver that card to the National Assembly secretary. The card will be returned to the MP upon entering the hall." Since you, Mr. President, are taking care of the order at the session, I ask you, looking at this copy, how did you not notice that there are full ranks of MPs on your copy, so that there is, say, Joseph Kasa, who never came to the meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, except when in the first place he represented the Government of the Republic of Serbia. How do you not notice that there is no Istvan Ispanovic, that you do not notice that there is no Iron Jovanovic, that there is no Alexander Stefanovic, Professor. Dear Stojanovic, don't you notice that there is no Attila Juhas? As possible, Mr. President of the National Assembly, that you do not propose to give a measure, and you are able to tell the People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party immediately the fines, even threaten us when we go out for the pay phone that it costs a lot now. How come, Mr. President of the National Assembly, that besides your secretary, there is not a single card of the MP who has left the room, whose service card has been brought to the secretary to meet his obligation and to remove any disagreements over the quorum. If you were to comply with the Rules of Procedure that you yourself wrote, everything would be fine at the National Assembly session. How can you not be concerned about the abuse of the People's MP's card, and you are concerned when the MPs who have not put the cards sit? Let's apply the same archaic, so there are no more MPs who have not put their cards on, but please turn off the session of anyone whose card is in the MP's unit and is not in the session and punish the one who uses that card. Unfortunately, that's what ladies do here. If we continue to hold meetings of the National Assembly in such a way, I may agree with the predecessor that you are doing well. This way, when you do this, when the hall is empty and standing on the screen of 170 MPs, when you pass the law without a quorum, I cannot be satisfied with how democracy develops in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14424	You're in one piece absolutely right, in this part where you've established, using a list that I certainly don't have or can't do without such a list in any way that I'm responding to, that the lists contain MPs who are not presently in the session. So you're absolutely right that there has been the most severe possible violation, I can't even say discipline, but abuse of parliamentary cards, so some MPs in the most harsh way have wronged themselves for their parliamentary obligations. What, though, are you wrong? Why do you object to me? Of course, I can't know that from here, when neither can you from there, otherwise you would say that to me, to tell me what MPs were doing, who were misusing other people's identification cards. Be assured that I know that, as well as that I know whose picture came out today in "Politics", the MP who votes for the non-existent MP, and that picture is out in "Politics", I would suggest that a decision be taken to exclude it from that MP's session. Unfortunately, and I repeat, I cannot know, but if anyone has evidence of the abuse of identification cards, please respond immediately and that the National Assembly makes the right decision, because that is something that absolutely has no justification. The measures against the people who are absent, whose names you listed, simply cannot be applied. They're not here. So they left a card to someone and I can't make a decision to exclude from a session of MPs who are not present at all, but I could suggest to the National Assembly that they decide to exclude those MPs who have misused their cards and I would vote first. The People's Messenger, Slobodan Adzic, has the word, and then the Messenger Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14425	Dear President, dear fellow MPs, we have yet another law before us that completely replaces the provisions of one earlier. So this time it's the Republic Labour Act. Technically, it's about changing our labour legislation by changing fundamental law in this area. Essentially, by adopting it, we are entering into reforms of working-law relations, which were completely wrongly set in the earlier period. The anomalies in this matter had the consequence of a disturbed relationship, where there was no knowledge of the role of the employer and of the worker. Among the workers was a system of negative selection, both in social and state-owned enterprises. They couldn't show good and hardworking workers, the salaries were paid regardless of the results of the work, the sick were the favorite way to get paid, not work in the company. In most businesses and institutions, it was more important to get to work on time and leave work for the end of working hours, which is important, but is not more important than how much and what was done at work. On the other hand, directors and bosses, using their positions, directly encouraged these phenomena by having, for the basic criterion, what the worker does for them, and not for the company. When someone tried to correct this disorder and injustice through the court, whether it was an employer or a worker, it failed, both because of the poor work of the courts in resolving work disputes, and much more because the provisions of the current law made it impossible. That is why it must inevitably come to the adoption of a new law, which we do today. The proposal that is ahead of us in its contents is not more important than the one we have so far. Therefore, it regulates fundamental rights and obligations, the responsibilities of employees, the establishment of a working relationship, working time, rest and absence, general and special protection of employees, earnings, wages and other income, termination of employment, achievement and protection of labour rights, etc. In its essence, he differs greatly. First of all, on a completely different basis, the relationship between the employer and the worker is being established. The employer is able to make a more efficient decision, both in the design and in the termination of the employment relationship, and then has more freedom in the part of the conditions in the conclusion of the labour contract. Technically, employees' rights are narrowed down, and the employer's position is improved. If it comes from the proposed provisions, as well as the fact that they are written during which there will be no current social property, I remind you that now it is the dominant one, were the logical protests of the union, as well as their legitimate demands that the text be adjusted as - so much as to respect the moment we are in. It is good that parliamentary groups have entered a dialogue with the unions, as it has put additional pressure on the government to correct the law by accepting a number of amendments, both from parliamentary groups of positions and opposition. Respecting these requirements, workers will have guarantees that their right to work will not be compromised, as it could be that some amendments have not been accepted. The Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group also had a number of objections, which is why it has tabled 42 amendments. I believe that the discussion with the representatives of the Ministry of Labour has had an effect and that a significant number of our amendments will be accepted, which will allow DSS MPs to vote in favour of this law as a whole. But when we adopt this law, of course, if we adopt it, we should not live in the illusion that we have solved everything and that we will have working relations with developed European countries through automation. Working relationships are nothing more than the result of more important social relations, which are their own relationships. Logically, this law will be brought to life in its true sense once privatisation is completed in Serbia or in most parts of it. Well, it's a good thing we brought a package of privatizations. In this finding, of course, I do not enter into his righteousness and the proposed solutions, which may have been better. Reform in this area, therefore in the area of change in the property structure, will speed up and reform labour-legislative relations. Of course, these two processes are connected and cannot go first without this second one, and both will have consequences that are better for citizens and workers. Better because today we have to solve the accumulated problems created precisely by those for which the word responsibility in politics has not existed, which have led the country for the last half century. They're responsible for that pain, not us today. It is our obligation for the MPs of this assembly to resolve at least partially the problems brought to citizens and workers by others from earlier authorities. When it comes to the problem of those that I have previously cited in this exhibition, there are two other large ones: one is high unemployment in Serbia and another is poor living standards for employees. The bill creates conditions for the privatisation process to be faster in Serbia, thus automatically creating an investment opportunity, which is now missing, and especially not foreign investment. Investments bring new jobs, more efficient work of the economy, and therefore solve the problem of a low standard of living and, of course, the problem of unemployment. Finally, once again, for me and my colleagues from the Democratic Party of Serbia, who have already expressed their position, this bill is acceptable if our most important amendments are accepted, along with the already accepted amendments of the union through the parliamentary groups of other parties in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14426	The People's MP Branislav Blazic has the word, and after him, the MP Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14427	Ladies and gentlemen, it's very difficult to talk in two minutes about an extremely important law. I think on this case, to talk about this law for two minutes, you can actually see all the absurdity of this new Rules of Procedure that's been brought in. However, I will try to say something fundamentally, which is that this law defines and regulates relations in a society, relations between a human part of society and an economic aspect. So, the conflict of economic and human interest. Certainly, the drastic shift to one side or another is not good, but here we have this particular example of moving: we have one dehumanized law in which, freely speaking, even the psychophysical health of the population is at risk in some provisions. It's not normal, I think that time will show that a man can work for up to 65 years, and especially it's not normal for a woman and a man to be even in their working life. I'm afraid this way and this law practically leads to pensioners being abolished. Surely that social consensus is needed, which unfortunately has not been reached here. It was achieved, at least that's what it was said, and now it's said it's absolutely gone. Especially when we have one law in which everyone has submitted the amendments, the government, the opposition, the position, the unions have also submitted. What may be the worst in this whole story, which we have heard from the MPs of the ruling parties, is that workers are blamed for the difficult situation in which individual companies have found themselves. It's the workers' fault they went to sick leave, the workers' fault they didn't work. I think it's a story that certainly doesn't stand, and especially since it's known that for the sake of the company's collapse, you should think about the conduct of leadership, the robbery of the director and everything that's conditioned it to happen. What... It's been a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14428	You had another 45 minutes, you could've kept going. The word is by MP Dragan Kovacevic, followed by Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14429	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've been sitting here for eight months listening to those who took care of the workers. They swear on labour rights, swear on the protection of children, swear on honesty. Unfortunately, the facts say otherwise. It is essential to remind this troubled people of what is inherited. It's inherited that every year, according to the data, we have less than one city. The white plague has prevailed, and we take care of the young. We inherited a million unemployed, we're the only country in Europe that invented the concept of waiting. The workers are on hold, and what they're waiting for, they know it. (For all I know, I'm in the highest congregation home, and these unarticulated screams, I don't know who they're coming from or what they're coming from). We inherited that productivity in this country is the lowest in Europe. It's not worth talking about what happened, it's how it's gonna be, how it's gonna be, and how it's gonna get out of this situation. The time for self-management is over. We're all campaigning for a quick and efficient privatisation. Whether everyone is honest with those intentions, when they say that, it remains for every individual on his conscience and on his cheek. To get out of this crisis, it's necessary to work fast, to do right, and as a result, everything has to be cheap. How to work fast, how to work exactly and how to work cheap? It can work fast if you have good technology, which we don't have. It can also be done if we have good equipment, and we don't have it, which means we're headed for developed countries. How can you work cheap? It can be done, and it's a message, relying on its own mind, which unfortunately is still beyond our borders. You can work cheaply to give them the chance of a capable, smart, working and honest, to give them a real chance. A real chance will be given to them when we are able to separate work from work, thieving from honest people, to be able to advance, and the others to follow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14430	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, followed by Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14431	Dear Mr. President, the presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, we are Socialists against the draft labour law, which is being discussed today by the Serbian Parliament for two essential reasons. First, this law was not even meant to enter the congregation procedure, since the area that the law treats is very detailed, comprehensive and quality-solved by the existing law. Secondly, this bill is a retrograde character, by its inaccuracy, with a lot of empty space, time open to many volunteer solutions and interpretations, especially by and in favour of employers, and at the expense of employees. The Socialists are against the proposed law and will be against its adoption. If such a bad law is passed, we will abolish this law and bring a new one, in the interest of employees and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, after coming to power. Dear colleagues, why is the proposed labour law bad and why is it not necessary to adopt it? It is not reform law, it does not improve and does not improve certain areas it regulates, such as the establishment of employment relations, the protection of employees, the issue of earnings, profit benefits, employment termination, maternity relations and other issues. On the contrary, the proposed solutions are worse than the existing ones. If so, and it is, the question is raised which is the real aim of passing this law, which is the real aim of a law that reduces the rights of employees, as well as those who lose their jobs, which makes it easier for the employer to remove from work all the employees he does not need, which imposes small obligations on the employer. The goal is, in fact, very clear: to the employer, domestic or foreign, and especially to the party, because this law is passed because of them, it gives the opportunity to fire the employee and that it costs him as little as possible. By implementing this law, the government of the Republic of Serbia will do one bad job per employee and society in general, and in the interest of individuals and interest groups. It will create a legal basis for mass layoff of employees, give employers the right to be an arbitration officer who decides how many employees and who will be able to work and who will not. What else to expect from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has no clear concept of economic development. Instead of taking care of employees, to do something to start production, to increase employment, to encourage investment, to lend small and medium-sized enterprises, the government of the Republic of Serbia stands aside, as if it were none of its business at all. Only when DOS personnel need to be encapsulated or protected from employees shall they be involved in economic flows. The country's economy is in a very bad state. Production doesn't exist or almost doesn't exist. The fall compared to last year, which was positive until October events, when the DOS crisis headquarters went downhill. This is "Economic Policy", the date of November 19th of the current year. Data: Industrial production in September 2001 was lower by 4.9% compared to September 2000; industrial production in the period January-September 2001 was lower by 3.5% compared to the same period last year. Afterwards, the state allowed imports of everything and everything that should and should not be, what is produced and what is not produced, and thus little production, which remained after 10 years of sanctions and after the bombing of our country, almost completely destroyed. That also confirms the external trade deficit, which is 35% higher than in the time of sanctions. For the first nine months, the deficit was 2.12 billion. A dollar. The DOS government's move has further shut down some businesses and contributed to an increase in unemployment, which is growing and higher. Of those promised 6.5 billion. $1, of course, there's nothing. Economic aid also has nothing. From investment and inciting production, too, nothing. And what little money comes into our country through donations doesn't come to production. The result, of course, is the bad life of Serbian citizens. According to certain data, 40% of citizens live worse than last year, and 50% live as before, although now without sanctions, without refugees, without the help of the Serbian people and without the bombing of our country. I said the Government of the Republic of Serbia has no clear economic concept. No, of course not, positive. If the government of Serbia's strategy is not to take care of the country's vital economic interests, that our market is overrun by foreign goods, that the value of the company falls, that it can privatise for small money and that a law like this is passed -- that will enable the mass layoff of employees and no obligation on the part of the employer, and everything under the company of reform and market requirements, to comply with European Union regulations, which is not, and of course comply with the dictatorship of multinational companies -- then it is a poor economic policy, then it is no economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Fellow MPs, the labour law proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia is bad. There's no evidence of that. I'll just mention some. How well a solution can be given to the employer's ability to cancel an employment contract, i.e. to fire him because of technological, economic or organisational changes, which puts an end to the need to do a certain job? What are the criteria on which the decision on the changes that determines, of course, the employer, as well as the decision to fire can be obtained only because of working discipline, or if the behaviour of the employee is such that he cannot continue working with the employer. What does that mean? That kind of behavior? This means that the employer determines the content of this concept, he determines what is in the conduct of the employee and what is not, what is so and what is not. Bad and solutions on the amount of severance, which the employer should pay to the employee whose employment relationship has ceased due to technological, economic or organisational changes. An employee who has worked for over 30 years gets a severance fee of at least five times the salary, and for less work experience, you get less money, of course. These solutions are not only worse than existing ones, but also more unfavourable than solutions in Europe. There are also poor solutions to the level of cash compensation for employees whose employment relationship ends because of lack of the necessary knowledge and ability to carry out the jobs it is working on. Of course, there is no way to determine how someone has no knowledge or ability to do certain jobs. One of the previous questions is how without knowledge and ability at all could be employed. (Glasses - e, that's a question...) ) The solutions to the fate of employees who become excess in businesses are also bad. You can't even see who's gonna take care of these people. If these solutions, that an employee is easily fired and that an employer has small obligations, we add to the already adopted decisions on fate, i.e. the rights of employees who stop working, a full picture of the social mileage of the state in which we live and the care of the state for its citizens is obtained. During the spring of this year, the Assembly adopted amendments to the Employment and Rights Act and was then reduced the right to cash compensation for unemployed persons. What does a man with over 25 years of employment get fired? What if he's a working man with over 50 years of life, if he's a woman and a disabled person? Who's gonna take them back to work, and where are they gonna get a job? The government doesn't care about employee status. This call by the government of the Republic of Serbia to be very interesting in the days of the holiday that have not yet been lifted. He says, "It's supposed to be done." Only now is the question -- what to do and who to pay for that work at the time of the holiday that, as you know, pays more. I would ask you, Mr. President, that we as the Assembly declare whether we will work on November 29th and 30th, as we Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia feel that the law must be respected until the new one is adopted. The federal government and the Federal Assembly had a lot of opportunities for the State Holidays Act to be abolished. They didn't do it. We believe the law should be respected. Finally, all these and other solutions show that the law is a bad and parliamentary group of the Socialist Party of Serbia will be against the adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14432	As part of your presentation, you, among other things, requested, as per the Rules of Procedure, that the Assembly be made known, and if it takes better today than tomorrow, that we know that we are planning our time. So, Mr. Obradovic suggested we make a statement about it. He didn't suggest it was working, he suggested it wasn't working. (Odradovic, from place:... [[growls]] that the federal law is respected. Yeah, let me see what shape I can put it to the vote. Because we don't have a suggestion to do. It's hard for me, because someone has to suggest it's work. [[Sagar.]] If we don't make a decision to work, the law applies. (Oradovic, from the post: "I propose that federal law be respected". Jagor. We have a proposal to do... Well, we have a right to make a decision about a day off. It's not about respecting the law, we have the right to make a decision. We have a proposal, so... I'd like to hear from you that the National Assembly is working on Thursday 29th. [[growls]] I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 81, against 38, with seven abstentions, did not vote 36, a total of 162 MPs. So we don't have a decision, it's right in half. It's not that we don't have a decision, it's that the proposal to work isn't accepted. Please continue your work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please continue our work. [[Sagar.]] I don't know which schools you went to. In my schools, it wasn't in my class to make such a fuss. The word is by MP Zoran Angelkovic, followed by Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14433	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, today is one of those legislative proposals that we can certainly call key in the overall reforms of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the parliamentary majority. For the development of our society's economy, it is a very important measure between the role of state and state institutions and markets and its institutions and functions. Our societies cannot create an efficient development economy, nor can markets be developed unless fundamental deregulation and liberalisation are implemented, if the capital does not launch dormant resources, and later implements the social democratisation and improvement of the status of individuals who have not taken advantage of the opportunity, or could not take advantage of it, in accordance with the principles of social responsibility of those who have created yields and profits. In New Democracy, we give priority to individualism over collectiveism, both in politics and in the economy. The only brick and brick builder of the economy is an individual, an individual who is not under the patronage of a state that does everything for him, especially not the country that we inherited, who because of the patronage and service of one master in these ten years has become a Gulliver on glass legs, a giant without power. To look for a measure between the role of state and market and individual in the labour sector, two phenomena are devastating - anonymous, social property and the degree of role of employer, manager and worker in one person, employee. It is a social schizophrenic where sick tissue is grown by authoritarian political movements that care only about their authority and the interest of their political clans. The time behind us has shown it well. In doing so, attempts to keep the monopoly at low levels, on the economy of modest results, on security for today, in fear of development, fearing the development of a political group with strong national and collective signs that slow down society to develop the capitalism of the European type that has shown that it has done the most with its institutions, national market and values for the economic and spiritual well-being of individuals. What do we have today? Dear colleagues, on our gray labour market, the monopoly is held by workers who are employed by social firms who have little belongings, because they are fed up with pension and social security. That's why they work black for smaller salaries and provide gray capital extraprofits. This law is certainly one of those laws that has been the longest in one, let's call a general debate. He suffered the opinions of the most relevant institutions and individuals interested in the matter of this law. It should not be recalled that the International Labour Organisation took an active part in the drafting of the draft law. With that in mind, we can say that this law should finally achieve what is already said, but we must repeat, and that is to separate work from unhappiness and bring our economy into market conditions of injury. Of course, this law alone cannot lead Serbia into conditions for the economy to be marketable, on all its elements. We have a situation that in the period behind us we have passed laws on our country's tax system and we have passed the Privatisation Act. The privatisation law and the labour market law are certainly in a strong relationship, the correlation should bring about the creation of the capital market, and the labour law should also bring about the creation of the labour market. When we said that the Privatisation Act means investment, now the labour law means that the final range of its adoption will be the creation of the labour market. So, Mr. Minister, in any case, I urge you to transfer to the Government that it performs quite safely and effectively and to continue with the reforms, not afraid to come to the Assembly with laws that are reform type. Both this government and this assembly have in any case enough reform and democratic capacity to bring Serbia to the side that we can say is the side of a richer and happier society. Of course, the ultimate goal is to bring Serbia and the SRJ closer and more into the European Union. I sincerely hope that after four years of mandate we will be at the threshold of the European Union. The new democracy will vote for this law and New Democracy thinks we are a step closer to Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14434	The word is from MP Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14435	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Minister of Honor, Article 35. The Constitution and Article 13. The bill is governed by the right to work, freedom of work, availability of work and many things that belong to the worker. The text of the Labour Law offered, obviously, will not make the worker much of it, as some members of the law are contrary to the Republic and the Federal Constitution and federal laws, which would lead to cohesion in the longer term. By moving the age limit to 65 years - and there is a great possibility that the new pension and disability insurance law will increase the length of work, both in women and in men, in about five years - many pensions will not even be welcomed, given the standard of living conditions of our workers. I'd just like to back this up with a fact. Let's take a doctor's profession -- to finish it on a regular basis, there's an internship, and there's still a man leaving for military service, he can't start working 30 years ago. On condition that 40 years is a job internship, that's 70 years. Now I'm just stating an example, let's say, is a surgeon capable of accessing some complicated operations at the age of 70? There's a lot of doctors out there, so if I'm wrong, they can deny me. The law promoter, as usual in all proposals of the law, bypasses the position of peasants, and forgets that this is the largest population in our country, that we all live from peasants and its production. The peasants' working day is twice as long as normal working day, we know it starts before sunrise, after sunset it stops. A peasant by 65 years of age must be entitled to a double pension through this kind of work, if he could get it, and this current one pays back in two or three years, in the amount that he can't even buy coffee that month. About labour law, relationships i.e. The work of our women in the country is illusory and talk. Our peasant woman, compared to a working woman in a regular working relationship, has no distance, or half the rights and almost no social security. And this to support the fact that I'm merely stating the pregnant and maternity rights of a woman in the country. It is not rare for a woman in the country to leave for the field a month after birth, because her watching and raising her child by law is almost not foreseen. From everything that has been said, through the amendments tabled, the Soviet Parliament Group has proposed to correct the so-called "registration". amending some members in the draft labour law, in order to possibly improve and correct something in these poor proposals on labour rights and working relationships in general. Otherwise, the Assembly Group cannot support and accept such a draft labour law, because the trust we have received from the people does not give us the right to vote in favour of laws under which citizens need to live worse. I would support this, if I didn't speak the demagogue language, by having the MP's group come constructively towards and consider any proposed law, which we have proved by our vote for certain laws that we have considered, so to speak, that they can pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14436	The word has a folk MP, Sladjan Mijlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14437	The draft labour law definitely interrupts with the current concept of regulating labour relations, which are contractual in nature, but in every country, including in our country, the freedom to negotiate is significantly reduced, primarily because of the great social and social importance of these relations. The restrictions set by the applicable law are so great that the freedom of the treaty can hardly be spoken of. Under this proposal, however, the rights of workers and employers will be well regulated by the labour contract, therefore, by the consent of the employer and the employees. In a formal legal sense, their wills are equal and free, but in economic terms they are neither equal nor free. The position on the labour market will have a good impact on the content of the labour contract, within legal opportunities. Because there is some balance, not only depends on employers, but employers from employees, but in our reality it is very damaged, and it is to the detriment of workers, because there are many unemployed and few successful employers who offer jobs. This fact also raises most of the problems that will arise during the application of this law. Another principle problem is that this law is primarily written for some future employers and employees of them, and these are private enterprises, so large powers given to a private company director could not have a social or public director, because their position in everything is different, resulting from the form of property. Article 1 The bill sets out the concept of the whole law, i.e. the sources of labour law, which are - according to this proposal - this and the specific laws, the labour rule, as a general act brought by the employer, and a contract of employment, as an individual legal act of a specific worker and employer. Collective contracts are not mandatory, but they are allowed. So far they've been mandatory, the government has provided conditions for their signing, even signing them themselves, so they've been more of a sublegal act of the government to enforce the law, than collective agreements themselves, because what is mandatory can't be called a contract that is by its nature consent of will, therefore, voluntary. The regulation that a collective contract is mandatory is possible only if the union is governmental and the government has a union programme, it is the largest employer. The news is that there is no obligation on the part of the employer to advertise his job. There are some reasonable reasons for this solution, however, it was directly contrary to Article 13. Proposal, Item 2, where it was said that each under equal conditions was accessible to the workplace. That's why it's a good thing that article 13 is deleted, because of this disagreement, and whether it's essentially good for me, it's not. The paper is also that there is no job category in the bill, which has been key in the current labour laws, as a set of jobs and work assignments carried out by the employee. This came directly from Article 12. The proposal, which prescribed that the employee was obliged to carry out all the tasks entrusted to him by the employer. This member was, indeed, deleted by accepting the amendments, but remained a member of 105, which says the employer can offer the employee the conclusion of a work contract, under changed conditions, and that employees can be fired unless they accept it. The amended terms of the labour contract may also mean a second place of work. Provisions on deployment to another post have also been left out. It is left to the employer's will, without any restrictions. For example, under the applicable law, such a possibility exists, but in the process and in the conditions which were in practice almost impossible to achieve. The paper is also that there is no provision for the conduct of a disciplinary procedure, there is no division into easier and more serious violations of labour obligations. The bill makes one other division, on justifiable and unwarranted cancellations of the labour contract. He taxfully lists the reasons for both the justified and the unwarranted. The existence of these reasons determines the employer, but in a procedure that is not prescribed. However, there must be a procedure, since the Law itself in Article 103(1) and point (2) uses the term "if it is established". Article 22 The bill has been deleted and this is good, firstly because it was deeply unfair to workers and was in direct contrast to Article 119, because it is prescribed that the employer who buys the company can cancel as much as he wants the contract of work, and that he is not obliged to pay the severance payment, to which the employer obliges the member of 119, who prescribes that employees who get fired, because the technological surplus or company is followed by organisational and economic changes, have the right to pay back, and the amount of the severance depends on the length of the workload. By the way, I think the amount of severance is small, that it's low. It is good that this law also applies to employees of state bodies, where labour relations have so far been governed by a special law, i.e. the Labour Relations Act in state bodies. The jurisdiction of the courts under this law is not limited. Courts may be placed in the assessment of the legality of the proceedings and examined, i.e. to assess the material reasons for their failure. However, the big question is whether the courts now have the knowledge and ability to assess whether a doctor has the knowledge and ability to work as a doctor, so that it is likely that court practice will focus on some kind of restricted jurisdiction under this law. It will only control the legality of the proceedings and will not be entered into for material reasons of termination. So we'll probably have some kind of restricted jurisdiction. Some of our amendments have been accepted and I don't see any more reasons not to accept them, and in that case, the DSS will still vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14438	The People's MP Miroljub Veljkovic has the word, followed by MP Ljubisa Kesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14439	Dear People's MPs, yesterday Minister Milovanovic informed us in his opening statement, and on the basis of the draft labour law, that the proposed law was another one, as he said, from a set of reform laws. Thus, Mr. Minister, to us MPs and to the Serbian public, told us that this was the reform government and that they were invited to reform Serbia. Unfortunately, the facts say otherwise. The labour law is only the second reform law, if it can even get that epithet, and the first is the Privatisation Act. Everything else was an amendment to the existing laws. So, the claim that this is some kind of reform government, you'll agree with me, it doesn't stand. What are these two so-called? The reform law, Mr. Minister, speaks the best of fact again. The privatisation law has been in place for five or six months, and during that time, the government has failed to privatise any enterprise, meaning no state or private enterprise. You've abolished your own transformation law, you've passed your Privatization Act and, to be a little cynical, for all this time, in these six months you haven't been able to privatize under that law even any barberish, hairdresser, let me say one small cooperative. So he's so good at the law, and he's so inspiring that people invest in the Serbian economy. This other so-called. reform law, I mean labour law, is a perfectly complementary legal act. It is a simple supplement, or better to say the application of the Law on Privatisation in the field of labour relations. You do not pass a new labour law to improve the position of employees, but in fact you adapt the rights and obligations of employees to a harsh privatisation law. You should, normally, lure investors, and at the expense of employees' rights. It's clear even to those unskilled workers in social and state-owned companies who need to be privatised. There are rare examples in parliamentary practice that one legislative proposal has caused such a reaction in public, both the direct reaction of those people most concerned by this law, and these are trade unions and employees, as well as in the professional public. The law was simply covered with criticism. Over 200 amendments to this bill came from MPs. Normally, it eventually escalated public protests by workers on the streets of Serbia. Pressed by this fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia used one trick -- it reportedly accepted all the suggestions of MPs and trade unions, withdrew the law, or withdrawn it to do so, so that the same legislative proposal, in a very modified form alone, would be sent back to us. And in the end, we wonder how the government was supposed to do that? Since I'm a little out of time, I apologize, Mr. President. How could she do that? Normally, when she made a deal with these Kostunica MPs after that -- we'll vote for the Court Act, and you'll vote for the labour law. This is evident from the presentation of the DSS MPs. Or what would our people say, "I will tell you, Serard, and you will say to me, Duke."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14440	The People's Messenger Ljubisa Kesic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Zivodarka Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14441	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a debate on one of the most important laws we have considered so far, and this seems to be the agreement between MPs and one and the other options, namely those who will vote in favour and those who will vote against this law in principle. That's why the debate on him deserves special attention. The civil union of Serbia will vote for this law. I have carefully listened to the arguments of those MPs who opposed this law, who stressed that they would vote against the law, and of the arguments they presented, I have recorded more passwords sent to the unsolicited, than some excessively serious arguments. The civil union of Serbia does not want to surround it. This law should represent one in a series of laws that will change the regime that has so far ruled. So, self-government will stop, this is the end of self-management, the end of social property, the end of quasi-worker's rights. Here, during the period from which we came out, there was a parole officer who couldn't be paid as little as he could work. It's a password that led to a situation of false security, which eventually led to this position, material and each other, where workers are today. There are several important reasons why I believe this law has reason to be accepted. As much as someone underestimates the importance of the international community, this law includes all international labour conventions and has given them a green light from the International Labour Organisation. It is a very important guarantee for this country as well as for the workers it refers to. This law primarily establishes working proposition, unlike the previous law that may have nice words, but there is no application that would mean a good position for workers in companies. The critics of this law are most often appointed as midwives of the working class. According to this legislation, according to the protection that has ruled so far, we have a million and a half unemployed people. I also count the number of those who are on forced vacations, which is practically the second term for the unemployed, just a bit embellished. Of course, the opposition will probably defend that we have a better international position today than they had because they had wars, because they had sanctions (for which they are responsible for good or for the most part). But what's tragic in the whole situation, right in that time period, was the largest decomposition in this society. A group of politicians, criminals and directors of social enterprises have become extremely rich. Many European rich people can envy their wealth, and on the other hand, workers have remained virtually unrequited, poor and their fate depended on their obedience. In doing so, they were able to destroy the middle civil class because they humiliated, and they did not protect by their legislation the officers, nor the professors, nor the doctors, nor the judges, all of them practically become one social category. One of my colleagues pointed out that this law would be very interesting to employers and would harm the working class, or workers. I'm willing to believe that this law, at least in my analysis, offers a real order of things. We really want to live in a country where companies will have profits, pay state taxes, and pay workers profits, and not live in a country where companies will do business on a positive zero, cheat workers on some fools, some aids that represent an absolute delusion for them themselves. In the end, what I will especially point out, a colleague of mine said this law is dangerous for the employment of young people. This law, above all, introduces competition where a category of similar and obedient will be thrown out and a category of capable and smart ones, and the largest category of such is among young people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14442	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14443	The Honorable President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, finally after a long time of expectation on the agenda of our session has come the labour law, in public for a very long time, but I must admit, from the very beginning with one negative omen. It is true that yesterday, the minister reiterated here, that all relevant factors participated in the draft of this labour law, primarily union representatives as representatives of workers on the one hand, the government and, of course, the Resort Ministry and the Employers' Association. I'd say that maybe it took a little more time to actually work out all the objections that are trying to make amends here, and then there probably wouldn't be a need for this kind of talk. However, what is extremely annoying people is at the very beginning, when the first fear of joblessness appeared, the attempt to justify this labour law by arguing that this law is actually feared by the unemployed. You know, it's not so nice, it's not nice to label all the people who are certainly rightly concerned primarily about their personal existence, but also about the existence of their family, especially if all of their rights are just being fulfilled from a working relationship. I wouldn't talk about it much. I also believe that the existing labour law has been done in full and in favour of the employer, and I would say in addition to the worker, and this bill has been significantly moved to the employer. Since much has been said here, and it is likely that more will be said about the place and the importance of collective agreements, I would like to draw attention to just a few facts that will prove that this law should have been a little more humane, that we are a human society and that this is exactly the law where we could show, but at the same time prove our humanity to people. Let's say, starting a working relationship. It has been said here many times that for the first time an institution of competition has been abolished. It is said that every job is available, in accordance with the training required, and that is fine, but the question now is how will one young man know that there is a job available somewhere, because one question is the choice of workers, and the other is general knowledge. You, Mr. Minister, said yesterday that this was a more effective way of hiring young people. I wish that were the case, but I imagine now a successful medical student who doesn't finish, of course, at the age of 30, all of his duties, which should start working, that he (if he is in Belgrade at the Bureau, where there are a lot of unemployed doctors, dentists and pharmacists) will know that there is, for example, a need for 20 such workers in Kikinda. At the same time, I don't think it'll be more effective if that engaged man gets on the bus and starts from place to place to knock on the door, to see if there's a job or not. I agree that this may be because there is a intertwination of private and social property, that private people are probably in another order, but I believe that in this way they will probably create some category of privileged young people who will find ways to be informed that there is a need for such work in a good work organisation, in a good private company. Let's say we reduce the right of the worker to leave with a salary, paid leave. With seven days to date, it's shrinking to five days. As far as I'm concerned, I would end those five days, because for everything that happens to a nice man in life, he has the right to take a few days off from his vacation and to do all his life's needs, but I think it could have been a little more tender and subtlety to introduce him into this member, where it is said that these five working days can be used in the event of a serious illness or death of a member of a narrow family. Please, the first association to a severe illness of every layman knows what it is, and, ironically, for the care of such a patient, a member of a narrow family, only five working days. As a man, I would never want anyone to use one day of paid leave for those purposes, but I'm just clear that it was all life, so it could still be arranged in some other way. Or, for example, one of the lists is also voluntary blood donors. I don't think there's enough attention to volunteer blood donors here, I didn't even notice anything through the amendments to see it through. Voluntary blood donors -- look out, it's the army of the most human beings who anonymously, for free, save people's lives. So far, they have had two days of paid leave, of course in agreement with the employer, because when an emergency blood donation is organised there can be from one organization of 100 and 200 people at once to be absent, and of course, what would be -- somewhere would be production within the next two days that such people can't come to work. In those two days, they had treatment as if they were working, or they had a warm meal. This law does not even say whether voluntary blood donors belong one day. Of course, they're not looking for anything, they're human people, but that would be a sign of respect and respect. A very important component of every country, and if you do not believe me, ask yourself - from the Clinical Center to the least hospital in our Serbia - how much a daily need for blood is and how difficult it is to organize these voluntary blood donations. Please, a healthy man, whose erythropoiesis is physiologically significant for restoring the red bloodline for 120 days, in one year four times he can willingly give blood. So, just by that basis, in the still valid law he could use eight days, paid. All right, if you say it should be one day, let those four days and how many times a year that blood should be past all those conditions in this article 63. Just one cartoon, and I won't talk much about maternity leave and child care, because obviously fellow MPs understand that much better -- I would like to say that women are not workers privileged in that regard. You forgot one thing: that women with children up to three years old have been protected from night labor. Of course, in agreement with the employer they could sign the contract and work a third shift, if they could do so for financial, material or various family reasons. Then, the compensation in case of sick leave, so the disease that caused the temporary incompetence to work, will be paid at 65%. It's a month's pay that would've been if the worker had worked full moon. It's the least yet, but I personally see it as a double punishment for a man who, above all, is unable to earn a normal and low profit. We are all aware of the difficult economic situation in our time. Then, the end of a working relationship -- the upper limit under regular conditions, which means that a man is retired, is 65 years old. I know it's only the later pension law that's gonna regulate it, and he's gonna have to comply with this labour law. Obviously, it can be equal to the upper limit, up to 65 years old. I agree and I'm sure there are jobs where and how well people can function up to 65 years old. I have to tell you, there's still a little attention to be paid here, because there are a lot of hard jobs, inadequately paid. I come from Kickinda, and there's a large iron and temperament plant. Women who were unskilled began at 16, 17 or 18 years of age to work, working under conditions where no one is going to retire. Mostly, during their working days, after 10, 15 years of professional illness. There's a temperature flying in halls where they work, in addition to all the toxins, up to 60 degrees Celsius, and in winter, since it's not heating up, the temperature is 10 to 15 degrees lower than the outside temperature. Or, to take an example of the slaughterhouse industry, people who work in special suits on forks, carrying out loads, enter the freezers where it's minus 30, minus 35 degrees Celsius and come out flying, say, at an outside temperature that's in plus 30 or 35 degrees Celsius. I think it's a very high thermal shock for the human organism and the question is in such conditions, in such a workplace, as far as it can be done. This is as simple as a recommendation to think about it. Since Article 103(4) does not really state the conditions for firing, it can indeed be freely interpreted. I think that's what scares people the most, because in this presentation everything looks like the introduction to the story that a lot of people are going to lose their jobs. It is even publicly said that the bright perspective of our workers is that they are slowly getting used to being jobless, and that they will have a material compensation of up to six months, compared to the number of years of employment. Because of all this, I propose, and not because I feel that one law should not, that the proposal should be withdrawn from the procedure and that it should be determined by way of order, define that all the dilemmas are eliminated and that I believe that one quite good law can be in the congregation procedure, and that anyone who proposes to think that he would so easily accept and vote this law that he might be in the position of a worker who will lose his job tomorrow. You have to admit, today you get to work, and also you lose it, it's not just an individual problem, it's a generalized complex problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14444	We'll continue at 15.00 hours. [[After a break - 15.45 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to establish a quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We continue to consider the draft labour law in principle. The word is made by MP Branislav Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14446	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Ministers, this address to the Assembly regarding the draft labour law I will start some programme definitions of the Democratic Party of Serbia - to provide labour legislation with the right to work and a fair profit from work; to provide healthy working conditions; the right to an individual and collective contract; the right to free organization in trade unions; the right to strike; the right to pension insurance; paid vacation; the right to working women and especially the right to mothers to special protection. I pointed out this because the Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed 42 amendments, which should complete this law. The Democratic Party of Serbia also advocates that the new economic system of our country is based primarily on private property, and then on the state-owned, free labour market, free flow of capital, goods and services. I'm convinced there's no rich country without rich citizens. We are a country that has already stepped into transition, into a process that will force this country to return to communism where we were six decades ago. Communism has proven that it does not know how to run the economy. In the 1950s, forced industrialization was carried out in our country: then the authorities forced peasants to go to factories and train them to work on machines. In time, villages remained empty, and factory giants full of workers. It was apparently work and production, and basically we were the other undeveloped industrial country. That's why the village remains empty. Our once strongest branch of agriculture remained undeveloped. There's also a name in the people, half-carved workers, who work in factories before noon, and are in the fields this afternoon. There is no such thing in European countries. In the interior, 80% of the workers working in the economy are actually half-witted. The labour law must clearly distinguish workers' attitude towards the workplace and the jobs it does there. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I spent nearly 20 years in SR Germany, passed many factories and construction sites. What I'd like to talk about here is responsibility to the workplace and the work that's being done. I'm saying this from the experience I've gained there, it's a basic feature, and I'm telling all the workers, so responsibility to work and work. We, as systemically and very important in the process of attracting foreign investment, must make this law acceptable and compatible with the laws of the European Union. Article 12 of this bill says very briefly and vaguely: "Employee is obliged to carry out the tasks assigned to him by the employer responsibly and safely." So I will stick to the amendment on the 10th, which was submitted to the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia on 12th, which is, I will only partially quote it: "The employee is obliged to carry out the jobs of the employer, responsibly and securely, according to the law and other general acts and contract of work, determine. When processes and organisation of work are imposed, employees may be deployed to a job that corresponds to its professional preparation, knowledge and skills or under the conditions prescribed by the general collective contract and place of work, and if the employer refuses to deploy, the employer may cancel the contract of work." The government has rejected this amendment because the labour contract negotiates certain jobs, not job obligations. I would insist on this amendment because, in addition to a more detailed description of responsibilities in the workplace, a term -- a job, as a set of jobs and tasks, is being introduced. Otherwise, the term - the workplace, I think, is mentioned once more in the law. I'm afraid by rejecting this amendment, a legal vacuum is being created, that the court finds itself in a dilemma, on the basis of which it is to be ruled. Since this law is quite extensive and can be spoken of, I will look only at one more problem: it is a union, as it is, and so far it has been the arm of the Socialist Party of Serbia as the government in Serbia. It is not a controversial fact that during the Socialist Party, Serbian workers were not allowed to strike, and if so, it was for political fog and hiding some important decisions by Slobodan Milosevic. And that's not controversial. But it is disputed that even today in the union, there are the same people from Broz's schools, who, apart from union functions, have nothing else to do, that even today, in these new reform forces, they would prove themselves a partner for talks on behalf of the working class. In the end, I would ask one question to the government of the Republic of Serbia and to you ministers - is the government genuinely interested in foreign investment of greater importance and is it interested in better privatization of social enterprises? So here's why I'm asking: by causing high tensions with unions, by producing frequent strikes in our country, a dreary picture of our society is being created. If we add to that a very unstable situation in southern Serbia, all these issues are justified. In such an unstable environment, none of the foreign investors will invest their capital. The Democratic Party of Serbia is for one balanced social policy according to the working class and to the unions. The text of the law, along with certain changes proposed by the Democratic Party of Serbia, is acceptable to me. It is difficult, however, to apply this law today, in a situation where we still have social property and directors in it, which would come overnight as an employer. That's when it's hard to apply this law. As in the case of non-constitutional agency regulations, the government has also put a question mark on such a reform law on some of its illegal procedures, such as the most recent ones on the replacement of certain hospital and clinical centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14447	The word is made by MP Jovan Deretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14448	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow Members, we have before us a draft law that is one of the most important laws in all modern countries. This law depends on social peace in the country, not just social peace, but simple peace. The better the problem of capital and labour relations can be solved, the better prosperity and production in each country. Let's not fool ourselves -- capital and work have conflicting interests and they can only be solved by a positive law. Serbia is a country at a turning point, where it is to free itself from inherited habits and adopt new legislation, to step into the future, towards a free, liberal market economy. This law, which was passed before us, has no such characteristics. It should primarily ensure the protection of workers' and employers' rights, social peace and good conditions of production, for Serbia to be a modern liberal market economy. The government is offering us a draft labour law to sell our businesses to foreign employers. It's not about one law as a major legal act, it's about an auxiliary law to speed up the sale of our businesses. There are three conditions that should be represented in the adoption of such laws. First, we need to take care of the inherited habits of our workers. We had more than half a century of what was called a working state, working self-government, and where the worker was quite protected. Habits are a different nature. You can't step from one system to another like when you jump with a parachute, you need some transitional periods. That is why this law cannot bring to us the situation, the atmosphere, the one that is ruled by the Western countries and where our worker, when he enters that new environment, is a positive production element. Secondly, Serbia's current economic situation must be represented, to be taken into account in the adoption of such laws. It would be wise to pass some temporary labour law, which would later be perfected. Third, social security. Don't think our working class won't ask for its rights, especially when it gets foreign employers, and she won't know it's being organised into free unions, and then there'll be trouble for the state and for our government. The bill is retrograde. We should look to those Western countries in which social peace, high production and in which the worker and employer are equally satisfied. Unfortunately, this is some copy of the law, brought from some archives from the DJ century, from a time of wild capitalism, which has long since been rejected in the West. Our minister got involved in his own explanations as a chicken in the house, and an MP from the Civil League told us that the International Labour Organisation had accepted and given the green light to this law, which unfortunately is not true. The International Labour Organisation did not give a green light to this law, and it first highlighted individual contracts between workers and employers, through which labour law can be played, as the worker, pressed with misery, tends to accept any kind of contract. The union deal is the only way out of this situation. As far as I know, there were negotiations between parliamentary groups and union representatives and we agreed somewhere around 50 amendments. Should we now play this deal, play the trust this congregation has in the people, and accept only 19, as the Government suggests? Secondly, the sustainability of the so-called transition; unlike other Eastern European countries, Serbia has no transition. This is the constant establishment of one darkness. There will be no improvement, no working conditions, no people's conditions at all, because this policy is not a temporary policy, today to suffer some difficult time, to make us better tomorrow. That better come tomorrow, it won't come, because it's colonization policy, not transition policy. Under the conditions of a modern colony, Serbia cannot be better. It will never be better, nor hope, nor for a worker, nor for our citizen, until this government is changed. Gentlemen, you have been given a mandate to change that former regime, and you have not received a mandate from the people to lead Serbia into the colony's degree. Check your mandate with the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14449	The People's Messenger Milisav Petkovic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14450	Dear colleagues, the respected presidency, a colleague who asked a question to check the mandate -- we will check that mandate when we implement reforms in Serbia. At the end of 2004 or early 2005 there will be regular elections. You can see right here today that there's no question of who's in favor of this law and who's against this law. Here today, as well as many years in Serbia, is the fundamental question: who is for reforms and who is against reforms. It is good that many are recognized, and it is good that we have this congregation discussion. Unfortunately, three years ago as an MP, I thought that we would welcome the time to reach a political consensus in this assembly on change and on what we want to do and on this legislative project. There are many forces that are not for change. There are many who are against reform. I wrote (92) a song that was published in some of our journals and that announced this period. She says, "I will not go out of this darkness; I do not need a day that is not mine; and the darkness is better than the light of another, my poor, distressed people: "And the last verse, which says, "And those who cover us the sun (when it comes to October 5th) will become visible in their form, only they will mourn the darkness and the light of the people who are loved." "They're not for change today. To them today all we do is ruin and darkness, a tunnel, something that is unacceptable to them. But, dear fellow MPs, I am now going to ask all the critics of this legal project three or four questions. One question - does anyone think about those pregnant women who never had the right to work, who couldn't get to work, but only one of the hundred? One was in a work organisation and asked to protect its rights, which they had no right to establish a working relationship in Serbia. Does anyone think about those pregnant women or young people who haven't had a chance to start a marriage union? You say you're taking care of the pensioners today. Does anyone think about those who've already retired? Every year you took a pension from them, and today they are full of their protection. Dear fellow MPs, you can protest, it's just a sign to me that what DOS is doing and what DS is doing is doing well. We're going to reform, like it or not, because we don't have any other alternatives. We are today setting up a track of new railways, the railways of new Serbia, which will mark the light in Serbia, which will mark the changes in how we designed them before October 5th. This is how you protest, this is how you interfere, that you brake, that you slow down. The patriarch Paul said one fine sentence: "Blessed is every one who makes enemies of friends, and turns evil into good." DOS qualified to turn evil into good, we have turned many enemies of Serbia into friends, we will continue to do this: DOS will help this people, make a state of what you left us, and you have left us 25 billion debt, two million debt in the pension fund, you have left us a million and a half unemployed; we are thinking about them, those people who are unemployed. You can do whatever you want, you don't even have to vote, we know that reformers in Serbia have never been very popular. Just think about how Prince Michaela went, what happened to Vuk Karadzic. We do not expect you, who are against this law, nor the people, to put us on the wall as icons and saints. Serbia has its saints. We want to implement reforms, we will implement these reforms, and you remain only this way, visible to Serbia, to recognize you, because you constantly refer to what the people think and what the citizens of Serbia think. A farmer in Vladimirci told me last Saturday, "If this government had reduced only 300 dollars in debt per capita, it deserved the name of the Prime Minister to carry one square in Belgrade, that nothing else had he done." It may be funny to you, but it's not funny to the citizens, how much you've made us sick and how much trouble you've left us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14451	The word is Mr. Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14452	He's gone happily from the pay phone. This is the messenger of Lola and the hanger of one. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday the minister, said to be thrown out of the O.R., "God, what a mother you are." It transparently shows and says - twice. That he was a union mother, that's familiar. I don't know about the second pregnancy, and I don't care. What is symptomatic is that the minister was poor, incompetent and unprofessionally explaining and defending a legal project, especially a member of 71st on maternity leave. He read the article before us for nothing, and he doesn't understand it himself. The maternity leave is three months, all the rest up to 365 days is maternity care, sick leave, or the possibility of a father using that right, especially if a mother is unemployed. It is clear from all of this that the minister does not care, nor cares, and apparently he is not breast-feeding his mother's milk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14453	Mr. Vujic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14454	That -- what, who, how, where and why the minister came down, is not the issue of today's debate, so I'll just talk about the law. The minister said - this is a system law in the field of labour legislation. That it's from the field of labour legislation -- it is, but it's systemic -- it's not. The famous Segedin School is also known. If he's there, and he is, Sonja Lidget-Sorosh, there's an explanation. The lady is otherwise a Subotician, and also a certified Serb, she threw herself at the falls, Mr. Minister, but apparently also in terms. You thought -- systemically, and she to you -- systematically. The law is in service of systematic devastation and destruction of the Serbian economy, halting production, devalued capital, and above all, undermining workers in relation to the employer, and that employer who is yet to come as form and company, a strategic partner. The main objective of the law is to protect the interests of the employer exclusively. That's why you cheated, cheated, humiliated the unions, as a social partner in law-making. If I were a cynic, I'd say I'm young and I don't care about it. Now the workers will see who their alleged union leaders are, who are so naively defending them and holding them back. But I can't do that. I must admit that I am in pain and saddened by the fact that Serbia, and the workers of Serbia, do not deserve such a law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14455	The word is made by MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14456	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, yesterday you presented to us a bill of work a lot of hope, optimism and good expectations. I wish we could think about that law as much as you do, but we do have some misunderstandings and chills. Instead of commenting on the law, I'll allow myself to ask you a few questions. It is clear that you imagined that working relations in Serbia should be arranged so that strong, capable and young people work, to generate profits, to pay taxes, and then the state in the budget runs social policy and that people who are not able to participate in labour competition allow them to maintain themselves. But there are two questions here. In order to have such companies, they must, of course, be stimulated, firstly stimulated to form a company, which will be profitable, and in order to be profitable, they must be free of social functions, they must be a productive and profitable organisation, not a social institution. Any employer in Serbia can ask you the following question: Have you, by this law, left more social functions with existing businesses and companies to be set up and to pull Serbia forward than they can handle at this time? You will answer that these are the same social functions and social obligations that employers have in the West. But there are more businesses and stronger businesses, and they can carry part of social functions, they can help workers and protect their rights, in accordance with laws that already have both tradition and which have a stalking mechanism of application. So the question is, is this law enough in the interests of employers, is it stimulating enough for them? He is just, but I don't think he's encouraged. On the other hand, you will face the issues of workers. The workers will ask a simple question. Compared to the 1996 law, our rights are slightly reduced. Somewhere more and less. I don't think they're drastically reduced, but they're still reduced. Your answer to reduced rights: All right, on the labour market everyone will have a chance to prove themselves. That's true, but we don't have a living market, we don't have a labour market because our business activity, production activity, service activity, is low-level. We don't have a living, flexible and dynamic economy. We don't even have a population that is able to boost production by its consumption. In short, it seems to me that your answer will have to be both: I have made a law that is just, and which I cannot equally be satisfied with either employers or workers. Employers will demand that the state fully assume the social function of the company, and this law envisions, in the interests of workers, many of the social functions of the company. The workers will, however, demand that you protect both their interests and guarantee their rights so far. Whether we want it or not, we will have to pass a law on social solidarity in Serbia sooner or later. Our condition is not normal. We have 600,000 people working on black, we have 800,000 unemployed people, we have many people who are completely out of working form. He who has not done his trade for 10 years has lost his step, he could not keep track of progress in his profession. He's in a sense barely capable of work. He can't hold a labour market match, he can't appear on the labour market as a serious competitor. And this man has children who need to participate in the labour market tomorrow, he has to train future citizens and raise people who can carry on economic activities. I suppose your ministry is not in charge of the social solidarity law, but it seems to me that your ministry is primarily in charge of another law that had to follow this law. So, this law is lonely, it floats, it pulls work relations from the sphere of socialist ideology and economy, but it has nowhere to be founded because we don't have a market economy, we don't have a liberal economy. Your law -- which I have no doubt you did well and for good purposes -- is in a sense somewhere in the middle. He cannot be justified, he is looking for a market environment and a liberal economy where he can show his strength. We don't have that kind of ambience in Serbia yet. What's really the worst thing about your law is that you predicted the same status of private companies and social enterprises. Your excuse is that the Constitution does not know the difference in the category of enterprises. The same rights as the employers will now have. We need to know where we live. We need to know that we live in a society where nepotism has released deep roots, we need to know that this social firm director will be able to fire a worker tomorrow to receive a relative, or to fire someone whose political beliefs don't match him to receive someone whose political beliefs suit him. This way Serbia will have so-called. weak, addictive voters. Our goal is not weak voters. It is not the aim of voters who will vote for us out of necessity and with interest, but free voters, economically independent, voters will be able to ideological and political orientation freely. There is no guarantee in this law that what you want will come true: that the current social firms are also profitable organisations. There is no guarantee that politicians will not continue to interfere with such companies. You have managed to reconcile the relationship between workers and employers in private companies. The employer, by the way, is not unemployed. He's also doing a lot of work. But you didn't manage to protect social enterprises from politics. You failed to protect them from politicians. There is no guarantee in this law that a management layer will be created that will be able to run social firms, regardless of political pressures. That's not how it's gonna be for you until your ministry offers a conflict of interest law. The law on conflict of interest is a basic law on reform. I cannot carry out thorough reforms until the law is passed. We're coming out of a system where politics could get involved in anything. All this was the possession of one party, in their hands was a knife and a cake, as it is said. It's a communist regime. We have to have a conflict of interest law that will tell us one simple thing. The minister cannot be on the board of directors, the minister cannot be in the agency, nor can the MP be in any board of directors of the social firm. If he's in the government, he'll be interested in "pulling" as much money into the budget as possible. If he runs a social firm, he will watch as with the help of skilled accountants to pay as little tax as possible. The situation is totally schizophrenic because those two things can't be settled. The law on conflict of interest seems to me to be something in the first order of your ministry's jurisdiction. It can be brought by the government, it can be any ministry, but you have to do something about it. I don't share enthusiasm about our success in reforms so far. We, in fact, have a good will to reform Serbia. We have the will to arrange it in a new way. But before we organize the state, we have to take care of ourselves. We have to put our limits on ourselves, we have to determine the boundaries we can't go across. This law doesn't guarantee it. He left social property at the mercy of political oligarchy. Under such conditions, it will not be able to be profitable, it will not be able to withstand competition with private property and will not be able to recover. Let me get this straight. As critical as it may seem to have been about your law, Mr. Minister, I must confess to you that you have made a real effort, that you have tried to reconcile many interests, that you have skillfully made a compromise that is basically based on goodwill and with some amendments your law is acceptable. When this law is applied, if applied, the status of workers will be much better than it is today. There are practically no labour laws in Serbia today. Today, in Serbia, there is a law of the jungle in the labour market. It was a 1996 law that the government suspended by its 1997 regulation. She suspended one of his essentials: that there was no more so-called paid leave, so she predicted collective agreements to regulate how it was done. Practice has suspended collective agreements as well. Workers don't practically have any rights. Six thousand people working on black, who have no contract with the employer, who are not being paid for pension and social security, will hardly welcome the law. The law will hardly be welcomed by 700,000 unemployed, as they can now enter the job competition. I believe that each of them would agree to work under the conditions provided for by this law. Those conditions, of course, aren't bad. So it was necessary to pass the law, it was necessary to regulate working relationships. And it should be said that this law, if you succeed in applying it, will allow for greater rights for workers and will allow for a better position for employers. But the application of this law, I'm afraid, will not go so easily. I'm afraid we don't have an environment where this law can live. It seems to me that some other law-abiding laws are necessary and that hastening economic activity and a different environment are necessary in order for this law to show its values. Until then, if it is accepted - along with amendments that will ease social rebellion, and will not significantly damage employers - by then this law will be able to work. He'll be likely, you're aware of that, a transitional law, but what's fundamental: the law has to be applied. Your ministry has passed an amendment to the old law by which salaries must be paid to workers once a month. You are well aware that the labour inspection has 100,000 applications from June to today, in which companies that have not done so have been reported. Can the labour inspection intervene? She can't, because she's not trained, she doesn't have enough personnel to protect employees' rights. So, these rights that you have guaranteed employers and workers, you are obliged to promise us that you will implement them. If you consistently implement it, this law will not be bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14457	The word has a folk MP Dragan Markovic, and then Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14458	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Unity Party said yesterday, and today that we will not vote for this law for any more reason. Since this assembly has been formed, I don't know what our working day is, and not a single member of this law is talking about farmers, about those who pay pension and social security. And they're some workers, and nobody takes care of them. Instead of being proposed in this article, and this will be done by the Serbian Unity Party when it comes to power, that agricultural producers have an unfettered job, that in 12 months we recognise them for another three months and that in 20 years of work, or 30 years of work on the property, in the field, they retire nine years earlier. I think they deserve it, considering they've been very hard to live for the last 10 years and even harder in 2001. If we know that workers who pay the obligation to retire and social insurance - farmers don't have protective equipment, they don't get working suits like other workers in working organisations, they can't go to sea, or to spas, because the sea is a luxury for peasants, and the spa is not; the spa is necessary for the agricultural producer, because it's half sick people; so, through the union to pay for more war, he can't, he doesn't have that right, because he doesn't have a union. Also, we're all saying we're fighting the white plague, and in article 71, I can't see it helping mothers who give birth to children, but still taking away some of the rights they've had before. When the Serb Unity Party comes to power, all mothers who give birth to a third and fourth children will have a salary and should not work. Those mothers who live in the country, who don't work anywhere, will also have a salary, because we have to take care of the village and motivate young people to stay in the country, to help their parents, or to replace their parents. It is known, gentlemen, that there are fewer and fewer jobs in the cities, that there are no more apartments, that parents have to provide their children with apartments, or houses in the country, and where they will do all this unless these young people are motivated in this way. In Article 103, it says - if an employee is found to have no knowledge and ability to work there, even though he has worked there for 30 years, the employer comes and says: you know what, you're no longer capable, I'll fire you. I don't think whoever suggested this member was ever a worker or an employer, and maybe he didn't even live in this country. The Serbian Unity Party will also not vote for this law because those who are relevant to say that this law is good, these are the three largest unions in this country. The three largest unions agreed to accept the law, and agreed with us, with the DOS parliamentary clubs and the opposition, if 50 amendments were accepted, and the Serb Unity Party said it would vote for the law. It has been said that these amendments are in line and that the government will accept, and later we heard in the report that they have been rejected and that only 19 amendments will be accepted. Also, someone said we prescribed this law from countries that were in transition. Neither country is similar to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, or Serbia. No country has had sanctions for 10 years, has been in isolation, has fought like Serbia and Yugoslavia. Production technology is outdated, we have lost the market and instead of increasing production, that we have placed on the feet of those factories that have failed, so to sell them these factories, we are not able to provide workers who have received three to 150 marks for the past 10 years, for a while what has been promised: that after three months each worker will have 300 marks; after six months 700; that those people can first be left without work, to survive and to feed their families. Someone also said that those who went into town, left their fields and didn't want to work, go back to the country to work their fields, etc. They would return to the country, but they lived by having one salary in the company, and in the country they were working on their own property. But that's what older people know, 30 years ago, who had 10 acres of land in the country was the richest man. Today, whoever has 10 acres of land in the country can barely survive and feed his family. The Serbian Unity Party will not vote for this bill for one more reason, because the law is directly contrary to federal law. We know, and particularly the president of the state, Vojislav Kostunica, has repeatedly said he is a legalist, so if that is his party, I hope he will not vote for this law, because this law is not good and directly harmful to workers in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14459	National MP Rafaelovic is seeking the right to reply because the agricultural producer is mentioned, and he is the only agricultural producer. Don't make fun of the congregation. The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Jovic, followed by MP Bratislav Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14460	Dear People's MPs, every law proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which came to the adoption of the National Assembly, for reasons of adoption, contains the creation of conditions for implementing the initial reforms and the creation of a positive environment for achieving the objectives set. What's the purpose of this government as it is, she knows it. I know that the aim of this law is to leave a worker at the mercy of the employer, because how else to interpret Article 1. The bill, which leaves collective bargaining, offers alternative solutions between collective agreements, labour rules and labour contracts. In this context, the bill needs to be amended, so collective agreements are a mandatory instrument of regulating working relations, that employers and trade unions are obliged to negotiate collectively. Not that an employer who has not concluded an individual collective agreement, obligations and responsibilities on the basis of work shall regulate the labour or labour contract regulation. All that in accordance with the law and other regulations. It is necessary to amend and prescribe collective agreements to be applied to all employees. The new draft labour law introduces the absolute uncertainty of the workplace. If you are constantly referring to European legislation, then the law should ensure a level of job security in line with international standards. The draft law does not specify under any specific conditions a job can be changed, under which criteria the employee shall be assigned from one job to another. Who's going to decide if the deployments are legal? If that's what the court is doing, I don't know what criteria it would be to pass such a verdict. In order for workers to be deployed, a working relationship must be established first, which requires a job opening. In order to make the job available to everyone under the same conditions, the employer should be obliged to report to the employment organisation the job declared in the means of public notification and on its advertising board and no later than five days after the date of receipt of the application. If that were not the case, and the law does not exist, it would be contrary to the Constitution of Serbia and to the federal Law on Fundamentals of Working Relations, which provide that everyone under equal conditions can have a job. Article 22 The draft labour law stipulates that "when a change of employer - merger, attachment, division, sale of enterprises and the like - the rights and obligations of the labour contract are transferred to the new employer, with the written consent of the employee and the new employer". I don't think the working relationship of a worker should be questioned in any way. It's a very serious social issue. If this were resolved with the written consent of the employee and the new employer, it would practically depend solely on the employer's will, whether the employee remains in a working relationship or not. I also believe that Article 26, which regulates a working relationship for a certain period of time, has a lot of inadequacy. The proposed formulation is least said strange. The working relationship is based on a specific and indefinite time and they both last uninterrupted. Every termination of work relationship less than 30 days, and formally and truly, represents an end to working relationship. During that interruption, labour rights cannot be exercised and based on work. This solution would lead to significant difficulties in the process of achieving other rights outside of working relationships, i.e. social security rights. Articles 30 to 32 should provide that employees, who establish a working relationship to carry out their jobs, are entitled to compulsory social security. In Article 33, it should also be explicitly stated that employees who establish a working relationship for the performance of domestic auxiliary staff have the right to compulsory social security. Both at one and the other instrument, so-called. the flexible form of employment, the right to compulsory social security, should be explicitly prescribed. This right cannot be understood by the possibility of establishing a working relationship. The employee has the right to minimum income, standard effect and full time. The minimum wage is determined by trade unions, employers and government. If they are not agreed within 10 days, the minimum profit shall be determined by the Government. I think trade unions and employers' organisations should deal with the level of minimum earnings. If they can't agree, that issue only then, by arbitration, with the participation of the government's representatives, is resolved. I find it unacceptable that the reason for the termination of the employment contract should be the behavior of the employee. That is why he cannot continue to work with the employer, because the provision is extremely voluntary and provides the possibility of limited abuse by the employer. In the case of cancellations referred to in Article 103(1), point (1) and (2), the employee shall cease the employment relationship by paying the cash compensation. This fee is insufficient, so in this sense I suggest that the SPS amendment be accepted, where this cash compensation would make sense and provide valuable material assistance. In general, the incomplete concept of arbitration was proposed in law, Articles 123 and 155. It is said that disputed issues between the employer and the employee can be resolved before arbitration. The arbitration decision shall be final and mandatory for both the employer and the employee. I think that such a formulation is quite inaccurate, that it should be fully and systematically regulated specifically to resolve collective labour disputes, i.e. protection of individuals and employees. However, Article 156. The draft labour law says "participators in the conclusion of a collective agreement can, before the competent court, exercise the protection of the rights established by the collective agreement". If that is already provided for in the draft law, Article 156 should then be provided that the period of arbitration does not expire for the initiation of the dispute before the competent court. In the end, this bill of labour is against young people. If a working relationship within the meaning of Article 99 ceases when an employee is 65 years of age and at least 15 years of employment, unless the employer and the employee agree otherwise, if that is the case, and in the bill is, the perspective of young people around employment in such conditions does not really exist. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14461	Thank you. The People's Messenger Bratislav Đuric has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Djordje Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14462	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the labour law. It's been months since we started working on that bill. As one of the participants in this full - right work, I can tell the real truth of everything that's been going on. We've heard a lot of false things here, not to say a hard word, from people who have no idea what's going on. The government of the Republic of Serbia has called on all relevant trade unions, all three trade unions, employers, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, they have been drying up a socio-economic council, which has worked for a full four months to draft a labour law. A number of versions of that law were in circulation. All of us who wanted to participate in this work, improved these projects, so we came to the final version of the law. Several dozen public debates were held in all major cities in Serbia, where several thousand interested, union representatives, labour and interested citizens attended. There were two public presentations in the comedy, in Nis, where more than 500 interested businessmen and union representatives participated. In drawing up the draft and improving the text only the proposals of the Association of Free and Independent Trade Unions have been incorporated about 30, conditionally said, amendments, which we submitted during the draft which are now an integral part of the law. What do we want? As a union, we want the law to be applicable without a list of good wishes. In the previous labour law, to which many here are called, we had "a very good law", and in reality the poorest workers of Europe and the largest number of unemployed in Europe. So that law wasn't good, and it needs to be changed, which we're doing today. For the Association of Free and Independent Trade Unions, this bill, with certain amendments, is acceptable. Accordingly, as an MP in parliament, I have submitted two amendments and I believe they will be accepted. The protests that have taken place and that many of these speakers have been called upon, as the trade unions have led, for the sake of truth, it is absolutely incorrect. One union of three union headquarters in this country led the protests, or more specifically - the top of the union. According to their mass, from several hundred to several thousand people, it is seen how many Serbian workers have accepted the protests as working protests. These protests aimed not to protect the interests of workers, but rather to protect the interests of those privileged from the ranks of the Independent Union of Serbia, until yesterday's main pillar of the Slobodan Milosevic regime. We could have informed the press in the previous days about the activities of their president, Mr. Mike Smiljanic. I'm wondering something else, and I'm asking you, are there any other protests? I say yes. And this is very likely the protests of those citizens of Serbia and those of workers who are primarily for reforms, who voted in favour of change, who voted in favour of reforms and who gave a vote to the Democratic opposition to Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica to implement them. I can tell you that the patience of these citizens and workers is at the end and that it is not far the day your workers raise their voice. And as for those who are cordially criticising the law, who were in power by yesterday, who made Serbian workers happy and brought them into the state they were in, and now they are, they should not expect anything else from them. One opposition party made that clear from this place, they will vote against all possible laws the government of the Republic of Serbia will propose. Of course, that's what's expected. The second opposition party, which is Serbia's Independent Union's partner yesterday, of course, does, is the sprawl and joint action of the political party and the union. Whose mercenary I am, as I hear it. Until yesterday, I was, of those same people who asked me, named as a foreign mercenary, a NATO mercenary. We were a handful of fools, etc. Now they say something else. And I say this - I address only the MPs of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, those whose people have given the mandate to carry out reforms and to introduce this country into Europe. You don't have to talk to other people. The people said what they thought of them. To those I address, I propose that they adopt the law, because it is one in a series of laws that are needed, reform laws, which will bring Serbia to its place. There's a lot of talk here about demographic approaches. I can make a contribution to that, so let's say - and what do we need the law for? We don't need labour law. Now, let's say, there can be only one member, and I'll read it, "Work should be a vacation, any exaggeration is unacceptable, and if a worker goes too far in business, he'll get fired." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14463	The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14464	Since it is clear that - America and England did not become a country of proletarianism and that Canada is not a country of joint work, we have also come to the proposal for a labour law. To accept this law, the biggest problem will be the state of consciousness and people's unwillingness to accept a new time. Someone says it should be a transitional period. The transition period lasts 55 years here, so how many more transitional periods should pass. That consciousness was best expressed by a former politician, who said he was equally important to the university as any agricultural cooperative. Of course, that's what it feels like to this day. This society lived on a social compromise between the government and the people on the principle of "here's a standard, don't touch the government," and then we came to the conclusion that it cost $20 billion in debt. Since some have said that this bill is not good: whether we should return that law during whose operation millions of people went to work abroad; or whether we should return that law for whose time the country is in charge of $20 billion; or whether we should return that law that applied to the time when the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Stanko Radmilovic, told the speaker that a drop of water cannot be drained from the dry Drenina. So we learned that Serbia's economy had failed before sanctions, not as explained - after sanctions. In a situation where workers are overwork and are being conducted as fictitious employees, the question arises whether a factory that has 10,000 employees, which should have 5,000, this difference from 5,000 people should be fired. It also raises the question whether employers have the right to fire. What right do they have if they don't have the right to fire. Of course, the law here also provides for certain social programmes -- how to take care of extra employees and how to overqualified them. I think it's the good side of this law and that delaying reform would be suicide, because the world won't wait for us to pass the best laws so we can fit into modern society. Social peace was bought here, so we saw that social peace evaporated quickly. However, what is very important to me, it is that the World Bank and the Government of Germany were involved in the drafting of this bill as consultants. I think it's a message for all of us. I don't believe the World Bank accidentally put forward proposals for this law, and so did the German government. If this law is not accepted it will have its price, just as accepting this law will have a price. In this situation, we are able to choose between two evils again and choose which ones will be less. Well, that would be what I meant by this opportunity to say about this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14465	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I personally enjoy this debate this afternoon and I hope that this quality debate will lead to solutions that will satisfy those for whom the law is passed. I personally share my opinion with my fellow Members that this bill on labour is not a system law, but rather a law on privatisation. If that were the case, we've heard more from the presentations of MPs from different parliamentary groups. I would add the following - such an auxiliary law, which should follow the Privatisation Act, will not bring the desired effects of seeing capital entry into our country without additional conditions such as the supranationalisation law and the law on the use of natural resources. That's what we'll see best in the tenders that are scheduled, let's say, for the Beocian cement factory and for "Venčac" from Arangelovac. In light of the draft labour law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia argues that experts from Germany, the World Bank and the International Labour Organisation, i.e. the ILO, participated in the preparation of the law. The trade unions, however, argue that the draft labour law is not in line with the IOR. It is certain that the government of the Republic of Serbia has ignored the objections and the IOR's finding that Serbia does not need to rush to change labour legislation because we will not enter the European Union anytime soon. For the sake of the public and the truth, what is proposed by this law, I will quote examples from several members. Article 1 is extremely controversial. The article continues to state that the employment contract or collective contract is available to employers. It should be pointed out that when establishing a working relationship, the institutions of advertising, or competition, are excluded. Article 88 states that an employee has the right to benefit during a period of up to 30 days. The sick, or sick leave, is 65% of the earnings. In Article 92, the employer is proposed to be able to, and I guess that means he doesn't have to, the employee to pay his retirement allowance and help with the death of an employee or family member. Close family doesn't make parents an employee anymore. Next, Article 103 states that an employer may cancel an employee’s employment contract if there are reasonable reasons for this, which relate to the ability to work, his behaviour, and the needs of the employer. Compensation in the event of cancellation due to the termination of the need for employment is ranging from double to five times the amount of earnings. For the sake of the public, on the basis of a solution set out in Article 71 of the bill, Mr. Minister, at a session held on 26 November 2001, pointed out that the distribution of maternity leave, part of maternity leave and part of the absence from work for the care of the child, was carried out in order to enable the child's father to exercise the right to leave for child care purposes. However, that is not true, because the position of the 5th member provides that the child's father may use the rights of the 1st member's position, which means the right to maternity leave and the right to the absence of work for the care of the child. This results in this division being made only because of the amount of compensation, because the allowance during the absence of child care will be significantly less than the salary of maternity leave. Secondly, in this regard, I would like to cite real cynicism in the Serbian government's response to the amendment on the length of maternity leave: "The total length of maternity leave is determined by the overall economic situation and the position of our family, in which it is necessary for both parents to work to ensure the family's material safety. In addition, the realistic possibilities of providing all children of a clear age during their mother’s work were considered. "I don't have a comment, I just don't know what time our government lives and works. We've been trying to change and improve with the amendments, but it seems like someone doesn't want to. Definitely, this law makes employees of the workers, of those who are fortunate. And for those who don't have it, choice will be work or street. Finally, to say that during the introduction of this bill, media and some politicians created and indicatively directed real anti-work hysteria into the assembly procedure. Why, to that end, you have to ask yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14467	The word is made by MP Dragan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14468	Ladies and gentlemen, a broad discussion of the labour law has been under way for three months now, involving a large number of entities, trade unions and employers, experts in various areas. Almost everything has been said and a lot has been agreed, agreed, and the debate today, as well as the previous three months, a lot of accusations about who's better, who's worse, who cares more about workers' rights, which seems to me to be running from the essence of the law. This escapes the reality, the need of our country and the situation in which our businesses and employees are located. In this assembly we passed a package of tax laws and carried out tax reform, monetary stability was established. We've passed the Privatisation Act, and we've begun solving the issue of external and internal debt. This law comes as the next important step towards European integration, to integrate our economy into modern flows that are the definition of our country and government. The unequivocally suggests that the aim of our economy is to become part of European capitalism, it is unequivocally saying that there is a price for transition, unequivocally and without courting it says that the victims should bear all citizens of Serbia and unequivocally account for the willingness of citizens to be active in this business, taking part in believing that this is the future of our country and our economy. That is why the solutions in this law are appropriate to the country in transition and market economy requirements. For more than ten years, the concept of market economy has been used, and by doing so, there is often something that would be original for our situation, something that needs to be gradually pursued. There is no market economy without the labour market. The principle of equality between employers and workers, who affirm this law, implies that if the employer and the worker are equally on the market in uncertainty, if we guarantee the worker the right to work, then the employer must also be guaranteed the right to work, regardless of the results he achieves. That's the way, then it's an agreed economy, that's where there's no responsibility, there's no competition, there's no creativity, that's what leads to company stagnation, that's what cuts jobs. That is why workers' rights in this law are also very clearly precise and consistent with many European laws. It concerns the material position, guaranteed earnings in money once a month, not as before: social security, pension insurance, protection, working conditions. Everything else is the subject of the agreement, everything else is an integral part of the agreement reached between workers and employers, as the assumption is that they are not conflicting interests both, but that they can make a better arrangement together than the law would do. That is why it is better to leave room for motivation, stemulation and better results to be addressed in the contract and agreement reached by the worker and employer. Many here used a variety of statistics, often drawing from the context only the data that corresponded to their position. It is difficult at this point to determine the extent of employment and social needs. About a million people are fictitiously employed, almost a million people are at the employment office and almost a million people are working in the gray economy. Who will determine who is fictitiously employed and works in the gray economy; or who is unemployed and has a solution in another way? In order to adopt a social programme, which has often been a request from the union, it is necessary to have mechanisms to identify the scope of social needs. In the state in which our country is located, it is difficult to establish a global, general social needs programme. Who is it that can determine the price that needs to be given to make this program real? The social programme and the scope of social needs are determined in each company individually, for each worker. It's a job that is not regulated by the labour law, it's a job carried out by the privatisation process and it's the task of other state and social institutions. Therefore, this law cannot provide, nor can it guarantee work. It is true that it is easier to lose a job with this law, that it is easier to get fired, but it is also true that the work relationship is easier and based, and that these solutions are further from the illusion of getting into a working relationship once, all the problems in life are solved, but also that the loss of a working relationship all the ships sink. A dynamic economy, which has the only chance of being successful, calls and drives every single worker to competition, to fight, to compete, to prove it. Gives a chance to anyone who wants to work. We already have a lack of teachers and a lack of doctors today, we already have a lot of competitions, seasonal ones, for places that aren't filled. And the question really arises -- what is really that amount of social needs? Like the whole country and trade unions go through the transition process. It is perfectly normal to expect that during the transition there will be something live union activity. Their role in society is also changed. So far, in the previous system, they have had an honorary place in the legal and political system. They served to be a decoration of the government, a flower pot in the court of rulers, in addition to the first and second events, to show the authorities' care for workers, through their specially elected representatives, in this ritual of false social dialogue. And for unions, there's a little bit of a shock. This is why trade unions today, when they address the authorities, knock on the open door, so today strikes do not connect with enemy activity and are not considered prohibited, which is why a large number of union and government agreements have been reached today. Let's think of the flag case, the Colubary, so unfortunately, if you will, and the police, which is a little unorthodox. Could there be any other stronger and larger institutions, unless we exempt the rallys, protests by opposition parties, which were also present and very fierce. Therefore, it is understandable that the union is afraid, because even when you change the table schedule in one office, there will be anxiety among employees. Those in these conversations we had did not dispute the objectives of this law, they more voiced fear of abuses that directors in social enterprises could do, using this law. It was not possible to make a law for social enterprises, nor does it make sense, as it is not possible to take over the management of social enterprises by some legal act by the state, in any other way. It is precisely the role of unions in companies in the coming period to control the implementation and application of this law, which have the full support of the government, and I consider our support. Because people in businesses are not the way to get rid of questionable companies, we're not even trying to change people, we're trying to change the system. There's no blank trust in personnel unless they're exposed to control and checked. There are examples of why and why not say it openly. Therefore, the union has a place in the transition process, a very active and very intense role, perhaps greater than it had or what it would have afterwards. In view of all this, I believe that everyone involved in this debate has found their place. I'm sure we'll pass the law, I'm sure we have a very high consensus here too. Of course, we expect that those of party interest do not support it, do not vote for it, but I am deeply convinced that we are aware that these solutions that we are taking today are a good path and that in the context of all the other laws that we have passed are one big step forward, much faster than those of the countries in our environment. We have to do this faster, because we have lost a lot of time, now we make up for this time with accelerated legislative activity, we are rightly ahead of the Balkans, and we are becoming the leader of economic change. We think our people have potential for it and deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14469	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14470	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of us is the worst of all, mostly the bad, draft laws, with which the government was going out to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the worst is that one important, vital area of our society regulates the sphere of social life in a way that does not exist anywhere in the modern world, nowhere in parallel legislation, and no one has ever thought to introduce such an original model in working relations, as it occurred to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, I have to point out that there has been a lot of talk about the fact that here, when the bill was drawn up, the government of Germany, the International Labour Organisation and other organizations in the world were consulted. It would be much better if domestic lawyers were consulted, people who know the job, people who read the laws, so they would say a lot of things that would have to be changed in this law. This law de facto eliminates all rights of workers. There is no more talk of arbitration and discretionary rights, but all powers are given into the hands of employers and that is something that represents a personal problem. If someone wanted to talk about the left and right, as Mr. Jovanovic did yesterday from this pay phone, it is my duty to point out that there are two key models: these are so-called. A liberal and social democratic model. In our country, it is hard to apply both in its pure form. You've done a vulgarization of the so-called "Vulgarization". A liberal model, something that doesn't exist anywhere and something that simply can't survive in legal-political traffic, and you'll see for sure in the coming period. The question arises how the draft law can be voted by DOS parties who talk about their social democratic definition. They should argue that everything from the state budget is paid, and in fact here is going to cut the budget, to kidnap as many workers as possible, to give rights to employers, without any obligation provided by the state. That's the key question. The Serbian Radical Party is a political orangeisation of the moderate right, but we advocate a liberal market economy. Of course, we are for some kind of liberal model, but with the observations so-called. social states or what some in the West have earlier started, since the state capitalism crisis, since 1929, 1933, to call it so-called. the welfare countries. Here you could consult our 1921 and 1922 laws: the Social Insurance Act, the Labour Protection Act, the Labour Inspection Act. Those laws were much better than yours today. Later they were worse, but they were better than yours today. Since I have already overrun the time foreseen for Serbian Radical Party MPs, I will tell you one more thing: don't call on who praises certain laws. A US legal-political theorist, Hayder, praised most the Law on the joint work of the former Yugoslavia and the courts of joint work, believe it or not. You'll always find someone who has a political interest in doing so. One more thing about maternity leave -- you told the maternity leave to last a year. It takes three months, and if a woman leaves two months early, she can stay a month after the baby's birth. Then he has to go to work. It's not Germany for someone to bring her a child every three hours so she can double it. Can't be a man, even if it's you, Mr. Minister, and others can't give up children by force. Prove to me the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14471	The word has been given by MP Tomislav Kitanovic, followed by MP Borislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14472	Mr. President, dear colleagues, everything that happened in the previous period, and about this law, it's kind of good because it's been shown that this people are very interested in the labour law; that this people are not just people who know how to fight, but are people who know and want to work. On the other hand, most people here live on their work, they didn't come on the side, they got rich, they made a fortune selling fog, and now they can look at this law from their corner. I don't know what will happen if we vote this law, whether workers will gather in the square of Zoran Djindjic and protest or come here in front of the Assembly; or maybe that street that works in my municipality, which is from which the prime minister, the street from the village of Bresničić to the village of Zdravinj will be named after Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. I must say, the passing of this law was an emergency. With the system changing, with the privatisation law passed, with other laws passed, this is a comparative law that must support those laws that have already been passed and should be passed. There is only this economic environment left to live in practice. However, this law has many shortcomings. The shortcomings in this law are as follows: by rule, as well as other laws, this law largely falls short of federal legislation. It may be trendy, it's a matter of some analysis, but it's not the first time that one of the laws passed in the Republic Assembly is not in accordance with federal legislation. Some of the provisions of this law are contrary to the laws of the Republic. The provision is mentioned that everyone has equal labour rights, and by leaving out the advertising institution and the job competition, I don't think all citizens are in the same position. Part of the matter in the old law that changes mostly has a lot of ambiguous provisions. This is the most visible in that article 71 on maternity leave. The old law completely shut down disciplinary measures, so it's immediately being fired. I think you should have found some measure, you need to sharpen your responsibility, but you need to do it with a measure. The basic remark that I would point out is equalising the owners and directors in terms of the employer, which means that the owner of the property and the director of the state, the social firm, or in a public enterprise as you wish, have the exact same rights. I don't think that's right and puts them in a different position automatically. The owner will normally take his own interest, do as he is told, while the director of a social enterprise will mostly satisfy other interests that will normally harm the social one, i.e. State capital. In particular, I would like to highlight the objections to Article 13. It's a member who says that all citizens have equal rights to work. Article 14 states, among other things, that they all have equal rights, regardless of racial, religious and other differences, and here I would point out particularly - regardless of their property and political status. It has been shown that something that happened in the previous period has not been removed today, that political belongings have a strong impact on the position and position of workers in the company. I'll illustrate that later on with an example. I'd also be critical of Article 71, where they're talking about maternity leave. It's a provision that's probably ambiguous. The minister pointed out that after the expiry of the maternity leave, which lasts for three months, there is a period of time for the child's care and care. If it's behind it, why isn't it precise by law, why isn't it clearly written in the law? I would point out the objection to Article 99(2), which speaks of the age line and equalises the age limit for men and women. I think there might have been some concessions in favour of women. As for the consequences that this law could cause, as well as its enforceability, I would point out that it is impossible for this law to be equally enforceable in all conditions. When it comes to layoffs because of political belongings, he biharms one example. In my town, Prokuplje, a hydroengineer was fired after 20 years of work, an extremely good and quality expert, just because he is a member of another political party. What exactly is this about? Because of the water failure in the utility company, you've been reading probably in the paper, the yellow epidemic started, a lot of people got sick. It's a water malfunction, which is what the documents are about. The water is broken because the sand that needs to filter water on the thermoaccumulation is not a certain granulation, it is bigger than necessary. The sand was purchased by the director, the new director of the company, a guy who is currently a member of the Demochrist Party. So, for all these consequences, responsibility is borne by one who is not guilty and a hydroengineer has been fired from work. I'd like to point out one more thing that's been going on in the town of Prokuplje. There are some funds, I don't know exactly whether it's a job syz or a work organisation, and what happens is that a worker who gets money to buy a job after a few days gets a new job at a better firm. So he's got the money to give in to the job. It's probably a violation of the law now. It is said that the law does not specify whether he can, after a short time, get a job at another company, so I would point out that if he can comply with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14473	The word has Minister Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14474	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of the People, I would like to refer a little bit to some discussions that clearly reflect a lack of understanding, especially when it comes to some members of the law. When it comes to advertising, it is constantly stressed that this law abolished advertising needs for jobs. I don't think this law has abolished it. He just says it's not mandatory, and anyone who wants can announce the need for a job. On the other hand, honourable MPs, there is a Employment Act and I assume the opposition is known to exist. The law says that the employer is obliged to report the need for a job to the Labour Market Office. The Labour Market Office is obliged to announce the need for a job, has a unique information system. Every worker in Serbia is available for the job, as he can use the Labour Market Office, or his bureau in a particular place to inform whether there are job openings or not. So, surely, employers, those who have a need, will advertise empty jobs. As for Article 71, which causes great controversy here, I think it's very clear. With this law, special attention was primarily given to women, if you look at the members involved, meaning Articles 69, 70 and 71, the special accent is to be thrown at the protection of women. So, a working woman can do things that are difficult, that I don't read members now, just with her written consent. Then it is said, in the protection of motherhood, I will read the whole article, which is Article 70: "A woman who is employed during pregnancy can work overtime, or at night only on the basis of her written consent. “ One parent with a child for up to three years can work overtime, or at night only on the basis of his written consent. Furthermore, a single parent who has a child up to seven years of life or a child who is a disabled person can work overtime and at night only on the basis of his written consent. That's how the law absolutely covered that part. When it comes to maternity leave and the absence of child care, whether there is a need to read that attitude again, there are extended rights. First, when it comes to how much you pay: you pay 100% and that's clear to all of you. So far it has been 95%, the law also increases the rights of maternity leave, i.e. The child's care is paid 100%. That means 365 days. There was a question here when a man, a husband or a parent, i.e. The child's guardian has the right to use the right to care for the child: "The child's father can use the right of the 1st position of this member in the event that the mother leaves the child, if she dies or for other justified reasons is prevented from using those rights - maintaining the sentence of prison, serious illnesses and the like." So that's the case when a father can use before the maternity leave expires for three months. Normally, it is said that the father can use the right of the Article 4 if the spouses agree on this. What matters, where this law improves conditions, it says, "rightly from the 5th position of this member has a child's father and when a mother is not in a working relationship," which has not been the case so far. There were questions about the third child and how we abolish those rights, how we will not stimulate the country's birthright. I have here data on the use of the right to benefits for a third child since the day of adoption of that law, which was the 12th month of 1997. In the 12th month, 5,373 mothers used the right to have a third child; on the sixth month of 2001, only 3,346 mothers benefited from that right, which means that the stimulation did not produce any results when it comes to birth. As regards additional rights, according to the applicable Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, the insurance undertaking, the woman who gives birth to a third child on that basis, shall be included in the special period of time of two years, which shall continue to apply. So any mother who gives birth to a third child will be entitled to two years of retirement. Furthermore, the issue of extra employees is constantly mentioned here, how abuses by certain social property directors will take place, how they will fire workers. I must remind you that after October 5th, there has been a change in the number of directors in Serbia. These directors are from DOS ranks now, and I'm sure these directors won't fire those workers like they're talking about right now. On the other hand, it is clearly defined in the law that the employer is obliged to establish programmes for the resolution of surplus employees. There are rights to the old law, which one of the MPs here asked, improved, so it is said that the employer cannot go to a job he has declared a technological surplus to receive another worker within three months. The job, if the need arises, can only be received after offering first to the one who has already worked there. So that's an improvement compared to what it's been so far. As for the rescue of surplus employees, the government of the Republic of Serbia is actively working on it and probably an example of the flag is known to you all. The government of the Republic of Serbia successfully solved the problem of extra employees in the flag. All those who now live in Kragujevac and those who work in the flag see the flag doing much better than it did before. The flag has production, none of the workers got fired, and I guess that's clear to everyone. The government of the Republic of Serbia continues to work on programmes for the resolution of excess workers in large systems. Right now, a program is being developed to solve extra workers in banks. The government of the Republic of Serbia is preparing a major programme for the rescue of surplus employees for next year. We are absolutely responsible that workers in Serbia know that they will be taken care of, that adequate programmes will be offered, that they will go into retraining, that they will receive severances. It means they'll all be taken care of properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14475	Word came through, second call, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14476	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is expected that the Proposer defends the bill he has been working on for eight months, but also to expect him to know so well that it does not happen to him to quote the wrong provisions; or maybe a man really knows how the bill reads and deceives the MPs and the public of the Republic of Serbia. I promised to compare a little bit so far with the applicable, this discriminatory law as you call it, which has caused unhappiness, unemployment, working on black, and this new reform law, which will bring prosperity to Serbia. He is even so good that he has divided one parliamentary group, and some MPs from that parliamentary group say the law is wrong, and others come out and say the law is excellent. Maybe it's that store we've already heard about, the DSS laws have passed, now the labour law needs to go through, and the legalists will say again: we were against, but had a few votes to do. So, I don't understand anything, but in this country anything is possible, as the minister said, so that's possible. Eight days from the day of publication of this law in the Official Messenger, he enters into force. That day - who's an employer in a social enterprise. If we pass the law today, December 3, 4th, who will hire and who will resign from the social enterprise. There's a harsh reality that we have social enterprises, huge social enterprises. There is a reality that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees equal property rights. Private, social, state, mixed, all property is equally protected. I ask, since there are no more competitions, and in the old law, it said that on behalf of the employer the director decides on employment, I am now asking you, since there are no more social enterprises from the day of entry into force of this law, who will hire, who will resign from a social enterprise in which he works three-quarters and perhaps four-fifths of the workers. Next, why in state services, why in state-owned enterprises there was no competition institute left. Isn't it our desire to hire the best? This law applies to employees of state authorities as well. He's got a special law, but this is a unique labour law. The fact that you have not responded, and immediately state in which laws, which are no longer in force, are your failure. What you're telling us in this law will be regulated by law or by law, but you're not saying whether it's a law on child welfare, health insurance or labour. It's your other problem, but I think it's the most important competition, and it's the most important thing that we hire the best. In the bill of this law, you're saying the employee who was sentenced to three months in prison loses his job. Just 10 days ago, you passed the Judges' Law, under which the judge who was sentenced to six months in prison remains a judge. A man can stand trial after six months in prison, and a worker can't go to jail after three months in jail. That's your harmony, that's your principle for everything. The trial work was six months, and now, according to this bill, it's three months. Working for a certain time is now up to three years, and it was only six months. The maternity leave, to solve it, was 12 months, for the first, second, fourth and every other child, two years for the third child. Maybe I'm not telling the truth. Two years for another child if twins are born, so he has three children. Don't ask that now that there is no birth in Serbia, it serves you as the basis for reducing the rights that pregnant women, maternity parents and women have in general. It was very difficult to hear the Minister of Labour here saying, since these reliefs have not yielded results, but are less users of such maternity leave, these measures are not needed. We need them so much. The measures should allow Serbia to have a third child, and may this depend on family and their thinking, not only on social status. Please, during maternity leave he couldn't stop working. You're saying that even now he can't stop working, and we've proven to you that a foster parent employed in the government of the Republic of Serbia has been fired by your government, just because he belongs to the SRS. It's your relationship to maternity care. Next, you've completely thrown out a 26-year-old law. I have to read to you, this is Article 26: "Employee with Disabilities, as well as an employee who, as a member of the Yugoslav Armed Forces, participated in armed actions after 17 August 1990, cannot stop working relations under the basis of Article 1 of this Law." You don't have that provision anymore. You are no longer interested in the people who have participated in all of our liberation wars for the past 10 years. How do you care about that when the German government wrote you a bill, so of course they won't protect the people who fought for this country and even some of them are disabled? What's the biggest employer in this country? I think, Philip Cepter. In a pyramid trade way, he has been making the biggest profits in this country, perhaps 10 years. Who's the smallest taxpayer? I think, Philip Cepter. You deny me here. That's the bank where your ministry probably holds the funds it's budgeted for. He made money robbing this country. I repeat, he sold billions of marks of goods in Serbia, ask him how many taxes he paid in Serbia. You don't know what a pyramid store is? I'll have to explain it to you, to individuals, especially to the president of the executive board. It's an unsolicited door-to-door store for you, where goods are sold for stamps and where the state doesn't know what's being sold. Philip Cepter's goods enter the country without paying any taxes, are sold to Serbian citizens for foreign exchange wars, without paying any obligations to the state. See how much taxes Philip Cepter paid, so it's easy for him to have a bank now, especially when his country... (President: Please stick to the topic. I'm talking about the employer. I'm talking about an employer who's one of the biggest employers in this country. I didn't hear you come out here for a pay phone, so get it. I'd like to take care of this pay phone with me. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as the only opposition party who will never vote for any of your draft laws, because you have not yet written a good bill, the SRS and its parliamentary group in this assembly will be against the draft labour law. We first saw evidence this morning about what you agreed with the unions. We didn't take part in those agreements. We're just one union delegation familiar with our amendments. They said all the amendments of the SRS were acceptable to them, except for one, and I no longer remember what the amendment was. We now learn that in the talks with them, in which the most responsible people from the parliamentary groups participated, you have agreed on 49 amendments, that 6 amendments remain to only look at you MPs and that three more should be submitted, to round up your agreements. For all I know, 49 and six are 55 and those three are 58. Serbia's government knows about these agreements. The Serbian government depends on you here. If you, as representatives of the parliamentary groups, agree with the union, the Serbian government must respect it: either the Serbian government will fall into this assembly because your morale raises questions, your cheek, because the agreements with you are questionable, or you will accept any amendments you have agreed with the union. We'll take a look at them today. We promised the unions - we'll vote for all the amendments they agreed with you. No matter who put up with them. We don't really care about that, but in order to create peace in this country. Don't listen to these mercenaries who say they're small protests. There's no small protest when workers are unhappy. Maybe they have a transport problem, which you didn't have on October 5th. Maybe they're having trouble with the police, which you didn't have on October 5th. Their protest seriously shakes Serbia. Think about it when you vote on this law. We will, I repeat, if you stay on your word and respect what you've agreed with the unions, but with the real unions, and not with that mercenary who's been trying to convince us that it's not good, we'll vote for the amendments, and then we'll vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14477	Cedomir Jovanovic, second call, came in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14478	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think we understand each other very well. I'm afraid even those who speak today on behalf of the union have not heard what these trade unions have said in their protests and what they said in the talks they had with us. Believe that from this law that we are proposing and which we have discussed with them is an even greater danger to the defense of those who left them on the street. None of the union representatives I spoke to, and I talked to representatives of all the unions who criticised this law, said that the government that ruled this country until October 5th was better than today and that the laws we amend these laws were laws that protected their interests. Yesterday, I said that it was very important for us to have information about the dissatisfaction in the part of our society because of the changes that we make with this draft labour law. It doesn't matter to us. The strike committee's information, received by all MPs of the Serbian Parliament, shows that the Alliance of the Union of Serbia's initiative supported 96,000 employees. A million and 500 thousand of those who are out of work are left at another address. Hundreds of thousands of young people who have left this country and do not want to return to it have also not said what they have to say about this labour law. We respected those unions, but we turned down every idea of them going back to the way they were. If they're afraid of the future, they can't expect us to put them back in the past, because something like that is unacceptable to us. It is true that we have spoken with them and that we have reached a principled agreement of about 30 amendments. In their proposal, there were neither 58 nor 49, as mentioned, there were 81 amendments to this law in their proposal. Most of these corrections stemmed from amendments to Article 1 of this Act and a change in the status of a collective contract. They insisted on a binding standard. We did not agree to such a thing because we believe that forever in Serbia, a time has passed in which only the working class has wondered about its rights and dictated the rights of others. We've put a sign of equality between capital and labour law, and I think that's the biggest concession we could make to this society, because if we look at that happier part of the world today, we'll see that in that part of the economy is working through the respect of such an equation. I think it's a very bad debate that characterizes this law, with malicious interpretation. It is very clear that the maternity leave and childcare benefits last 365 days. Family leave is covered with 100% profit. Right, three months. For the remaining nine months, the mother, or father, if she decides on such a thing, which is a newspaper in accordance with this law, according to the Law on Social Care for Children's Compensation, I will read to you Article 16 of that Law: "For the first three children in the family the salary is 100%". So, not 65%. You don't have to apologize, I believe you didn't do it in a bad way, because I don't see your personal benefit. As far as the competition is concerned, it is also forever past the time of staged competitions and covert ads in "The Battle" or some other daily regional list. We need a credible labour market. We need conscious people, confident of their potentials, people who will function on that labour market right through respect for the principles that these same people favor in relation to others anywhere in the world. If our worker can find a job in Switzerland, Austria, Germany, Italy, Greece, New Zealand, Australia and England, America, if this job is found with respect to the rules on which the world rests, there is no reason to create in Serbia a ban that will operate beyond that world, in which we live very well. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, regardless of whether you come from the ranks of the opposition or the ranks of the position, criticise this law in those segments in which its correction will reduce all the bad consequences that inevitably follow this law and favour those of the good side of the law. Don't try to make the accident that is common, although the creators are not together, achieve some political benefit, because this benefit is short-lived and, believe me, ephemeral in relation to all that is good consequences of this law. We're not giving up on the law. I expect that DOS MPs, at least the DOS who entered this assembly on January 25th, will have the courage to change Serbia and when the changes follow the difficulties. Thank you. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14479	Did you mention them? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We still have time for MP Vojislav Jankovic. Don't abuse it... He's speaking to Nikolic. You have no right to a replica. If it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, go ahead. Don't abuse that right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14480	I don't want to abuse anything, but neither do you. The previous one misread my presentation. It was obvious. I want to disprove the lies that have been told here. This law does not differ from the previous law on the rights of both parents. For the first time in 1996, father’s right to use maternity leave in certain cases was introduced and is now prescribed in this law. In case there's a woman in prison, in case...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14481	Mr. Nikolic, I gave you no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14482	Well, Mr. President, don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14483	I didn't give you the right to a replica. You're not mentioned by either you or the party, or the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14484	How, all the time Mr. Jovanovic was talking about my exposure. He wasn't talking about anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14485	Just as Mr. MP recognized himself in his profession...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14486	Second thing, I was talking about the agreed amendments with the union. Mr. Jovanovic said it wasn't true.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14487	Mr. Nikolic, I gave you no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14488	I know you didn't give me the right to the line, but I now assure you that you had to give me the right to the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14489	I remind you that you have two warnings already.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14490	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14491	It means I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14492	No, you're threatening me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14493	No, I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14494	You don't care if I have two warnings, you do what you do. Who are you to threaten me here? The MP keeps talking about my exposure. I recognized the exposure. He's misreading and presenting false information. It's the easiest way to threaten. What, now I'm gonna be scared of not getting paid this month? What does it mean to scare the Messenger of the people by giving them two warnings? Say whatever you want, I'm not afraid of you at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14495	But I'm glad you listened after all. The word is by MP Vojislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14496	I'm not afraid of them, Mr. President. Do what you want. You'll never be more of a man than me if you give me punishment. Learn a little from the examples of others, Mr. President. Now you've challenged me and I'll stay here until you give me any punishment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14497	I didn't give you my word. Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14498	No, I'm not leaving.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-27-0.u14499	We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
