ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7222	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of respected colleagues, besides the fact that this bill comes from MPs and high-ranking officials of a party, which has already been said to care for the protection of our youth, in yesterday's discussion, the intention itself, let alone the attempt to propose the law, has been called a hypocrite. I believe that the efforts of gentlemen for every commendation, even with the fact that the proposal contains most of those parts from FONAS, which we have talked about earlier, which Mr. Ivkovic will have to appear to be even more about. There is no doubt that there is a problem with this population group, which, with all the announcement that everyone participated in the bill, is not well defined in my opinion. No matter what, I think it's a complimentary effort once again, but I can't support this law. I'll explain why. First, three factors are very important for the occurrence of a disease or a change in the psychological characteristics of a person, a man, a teenager or a minor. The first factor is man, his set, we're all exposed to the functioning of these psychopathological factors, and we're not all sick. Another factor is an agent, chemical, which is drugs, alcohol, or psychopathological factors. The third factor is the social environment, which means family, school, state union with its organization, its ethical and moral characteristics. This law tries to sanction only this third part, which is the functioning of a social, or state community, which in itself is one deficiency and which cannot be so, to enter into one law. Next, and I am trying to be biased because I come from another parliamentary group, is an indetermination or the least said indetermination, as in Article 16. We all seem to know what sects are. Here are emphasized pseudophylosophy and pseudo-religious circumstances that can affect. The question arises, who is to determine what is philosophically right, what is religiously correct, what is pseudo-religious, Mr. Ivkovic. I'm talking to him because he's the chief promoter, he's long used to being an arbiter in everything, and even what is philosophical and what is patriotism, although by my definition, in my humble opinion, patriotism is a personal feeling. The next thing I can't believe this bill is good, is the way it's trying to get into institutions, the national Youth Protection Alliance. Something that reminds me a little of the protection of works and names, and secondly, if we go back a little bit and some kind of sizzling, and where we're going to have a cheese for the youth, etc. It is already said that certain things that are in the draft of this law are already regulated by other laws on family, on the transport of alcoholic beverages, on working time, and which comes in the domain of local self-government. And about the restrictiveity, what was said here, I don't want to talk about it, I don't want to offend anyone, but it seems to be a restriction or a way of thinking certain structures... (President: Time. I'm finishing... who have long been in power and to remind ourselves of that Vranian woman, which is to say when a fox and a bishop become, he strangles chickens. Yet, there are many elements that can be entangled in other laws or regulations, as a special law is not in my opinion well composed. No matter how many people are shown to read it, I guess it's also written to be read, I can't support it, and I don't think the DSS MPs will support it in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7223	The word is made by MP Dragan Šormaz, followed by Milka Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, why should we vote against this law, this bill - for the simple reason that it is the most common demagogue proposal of the SPS parliamentary group and should represent marketing for them. Since they don't know what good marketing is, because they've done bad marketing for 10 years, especially in the last election, it's no wonder they gave such a bad bill. Better could not be expected of them. We don't have anything new here. We know this well, this is something that the young Socialists have proposed over the past few years through their FONAS organization, at various consultations, which were normally organised on Zlatibor, Kopalnik, in expensive hotels throughout Serbia. We know how young people in Serbia looked at all this. Those who, for example, were, at that time, a few years ago when the campaign began, were minors, and by the time the elections became full-time and voted, we ourselves know what the result of the vote was. It's one of the reasons why we can't accept something like this. We all know that about the older population voted for the SPS, that the young voted for us. The young have given us trust, they knew this, because this, I repeat, is nothing new. So they were against it both in this election and that logic if we go, it's enough to vote against this law without any other explanations. Let's not talk about what is already being done in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia by the Law on the Social Care of Children, the Declaration on the Protection and Promotion of the Rights of Children in the SRJ, the Law on the Ratification and Convention of the United Nations and the Rights of the Child, the Law on Public Order and Peace, the Law on Games of Happiness, the Law on Publications, Criminal Law, the Law on Violences, etc. Young people in Serbia and minors do not need any repressive law. They need a few things that are now related to the work of this government and the new government in Serbia, which is investing in agriculture and economy. When invested in agriculture, the young will remain in the country and remain there. Agriculture is our future, that's my opinion. Once invested in the economy, when we finish this process of privatisation and ownership transformation, new jobs will be opened. These new jobs will give young people a more responsible life, where they will have less time to lose, and therefore they will have a more quality life than they had in the past 10 years, under your authority. Something like that will bring stability to our family. You know, when in a situation that you've made in the past 10 years, a parent, a father or mother, if they had to work at their company in the morning, where they work, and in the afternoon they run to work and private to earn some money to feed their children, it's normal that they didn't have time for children, and then the children came into the situation they were in, that they were in contact with the bad people, because that was the atmosphere that you made here. And that there is a need to fight a strong drug machine in Serbia. There are drugs in all schools, but of course this new government, the new government and the new police we're creating, will do it right. For example, I graduated high school in the mid-80s, in Smederev. Then we didn't know what drugs were. We heard there might be a glue blowing in Belgrade, as a young colleague said, but we didn't know about anything else. Today we have all the forms of drugs in Serbia, and worst of all, we have in eight-year-old schools, so where are very minors, and marijuana and pills. That's what the whole of Serbia has to say publicly, there's no need to cover it up. We need a new system of education, return of faith and the Serbian Orthodox Church, more investment in culture, art and sport. No repressive measures, but exactly what I said would lead to a return of confidence in Serbia and the Serbian state. (President: Time. ) For the end just read this material from UNICEF. All MPs got this. They give us one contribution that says: "The total expenditure on education has been reduced by 40%, the cost per student by 30% over the last decade. The dropout rate has risen to 30%. Educational results in primary schools are extremely low. Less than half of the founders master only 50% of the material. The teaching methods are conservative, and the material is too extensive. The teaching staff is not motivated enough, the school buildings are ruined with a serious lack of equipment and teaching resources. "What I said wasn't history, it's not that you lost the election four, five, six months ago, so now we need to forget everything. It wasn't that long ago. These are the consequences of the SPS authorities and their coalition partners. Therefore, you were a corrupt and incompetent government that led to sanctions and NATO bombing because of its incompetence. That is why what happened to all of us, to young people and minors, and that is why, like all other MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, I will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7225	The People's MP Milka Marinkovic has the word, followed by the MP Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7226	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, that minors need protection, as well as other vulnerable groups of people in every society, including ours, is absolutely clear and there is no dilemma. But this law, whose proposal I have before me, concerns me, in Article 2, I lack the essential provision that I would put behind item 10, which would say that -- the rights of minors are the rights to protection, except for the numbered ones, and the influence of the Socialist Party of Serbia, which, by its destructive action, destroys everything in front of them, especially the psychophysical health of minors. Then I think this law would have some meaning, especially with this provision. What's characteristic of me, that's the reason for the law. I think it only consists of pearls. The SPS parliamentary group is said to have made this proposal at the initiative of young Socialists and the Fund for Combating Drugs, Alcoholism and Sects - FONAS. Just to remind the public that the founder of FONAS is the Municipal Committee of the SPS Vračar and that 570,000 dinars directly paid the Ministry of Science to the organization, and over other giro accounts 1,675,000 dinars. A total of 2,245,000 dinars were paid to this Foundation. In fact, from the state budget, this very important ministry has been laundered this much money and paid in favour of the SPS. So, the organisation that launders state money for the benefit of the political party now hastily taken care of minors and youngsters. A special cynicism is a proposal to charge criminal penalties, dragons, because minors watch pornographic magazines or play games of chance, and to invest in the budget. Those who said that we are taxing air now also demand that we tax the fact that minors watch pornographic magazines and thus fill the budget. It is often said here that the problem is that we do not want to adopt the laws proposed by the SPS. I'm saying it's true. For me, the moral credibility of the promoter is very important. The barren attempts of SPS MPs to show how we DOS are sitting here laughing at the tragedy in Kosovo, laughing at the fact that minors are not protected. That's not true. We laugh at you and your insolence to suggest something that's been your job for ten years. So it took you ten years to solve these problems and you didn't solve them. Now you dare propose to someone else to solve something that you haven't solved, but you've ruined everything you've touched. I think it's finally time for some facts, so the facts to get in the heads, even if those heads were socialist. On March 5th, that October 5th, I apologize, it may have been March 5th, that day is the brightest day in the history of the Serbian people and Serbia. That October 5th million people in Belgrade were ready to die, to give life, so it was aware that they could give life here, only to prevent you from taking care of them more. So the people took away your right to suggest anything and to take care of it. Because you would say to the grandmothers, sit where you are, covered in ears, let us whom the people have given confidence to do what you are not and do not simply reject us, the people of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7227	Replica, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7228	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is very interesting for the citizens, as well as for us, to listen to people who are so calm and stalwart about people who are not at all energy for revenge and for some accusations of various failures, perhaps personal, have dried up. As for the light of October 5th, it certainly lit fire from the Assembly, but it overshadowed the smoke from the Radio Television of Serbia and the Assembly, and as far as the citizens' beliefs about whom they support, it might be good to announce the results of Sunday elections for the councils in Sapac, where the SPS received 196 votes, and DOS 123 respectively, the SPS committee was elected, in Vranje, where the SPS received 253 votes, and DOS received less than the radicals that received 59. It's obvious that yours, ladies and gentlemen, is nervous, because it is clear to you that those who have chosen you by wanting change have understood and understood the way you conduct the changes. As for young people, even in his approach to the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Djindjic said here that our greatest value is the chamber, the quality of the staff we have. This chamber is the result of that education system that has just been advocated since 1945 and for whose natural successor you are accusing here, and you essentially commend the Socialist Party of Serbia, because it was just thanks to the Socialist Party of Serbia since 1990 that the education system was preserved. No fees have been imposed on studies that you are now introducing from 50,000 to 250,000 dinars. Who's gonna be able to study? Only who has money in your DOS system. It is your concern for young people, as is hypocrisy when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises, because you have abolished incentives with your latest legal procedures for those businesses that start small and medium-sized enterprises, which have so far had the privilege of many taxes and excise taxes not having to pay. Therefore, hypocrisy is not to be spoken of here, this is a serious institution. As for FONAS, the resolution minister for science and technology, who adopted a financial plan for 2000, which the government of the Republic of Serbia gave consent to, had the absolute right to finance an organisation that is the founder of the Socialist Party of Serbia, in line with the financial plan, with a position to encourage young people. No one's ever hid that. The organisation's statute has been in the Ministry of Science and Technology since the beginning, but this organization has been registered at the Ministry of Culture, this organization has had its own assembly, in which four were then the current minister, over 20 university professors, over 50 students and that organisation, my dear gentlemen, has done an extremely noble and human mission. For your information, more than 2,500 young people went through FONAS's counseling center only last year, and today they pass, and today these counselling centres work, although you are artificially trying to bring down an extraordinary idea, because you copy it, and you copy it very badly from Vrakar, with very bad lecturers who are more pronouncing sects than they are fighting them. This organization is working day and day, because all these experts are doing absolutely free, deeply convinced of FONAS's noble mission. Therefore, everything was done properly, but you ordered the people who had to function as a budgetary inspection to be able to work like this. Fortunately for me, I have a correct successor who has given me a full report, but I repeat, I am the only minister in the former government of the Republic of Serbia who could see the report, which defended itself against 90% of the charges, and my colleagues have not had the opportunity to see the report, although they are right under the law because they are responsible because the current ministers did not want to give it to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7229	Replica, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7230	In line with the Rules of Procedure, since I believe that the reputation of the DOS parliamentary group has been violated on several occasions. If October 5th was the day we came without cause and without motive, then someone could represent us differently than we really are. We are representatives of the democratic part of our society, that part of the society, which, despite all the repressive measures we faced during the pre-election campaign, won the elections. On September 24th, the regime was not ready to recognise an election defeat. On the contrary, he tried to do something he did in 1996 and as he suffered a final failure in 1996 and confessed to the election result, it was forced to do after October 5th. I will remind you of the formulation of today's president of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Mr Milosevic, who unfortunately cannot respond to what we are talking about here at the assembly speaker, so it may not be appropriate and too often to remind him of what he did, because man is not in a position to disprove our views. I'll remind you of a fact in his speech in which he announced the withdrawal and recognition of the election results. Namely, he said at the time -- I heard that the federal constitutional court had changed the decision of the Federal Election Commission. The same federal constitutional court, which had made an anti-constitutional decision 24 hours earlier that annulled the election results, which provoked Serbian citizens and forced them to have their right, not to political action, but to a fundamentally decent life, defences as they did on October 5th. Those who sent Serbian citizens armed with long pipes to the Yugoslav Parliament and Radio Television, who differed from us just by wearing uniforms, had to consider the consequences of such a decision. They didn't think, and that's why there was what happened on October 5th. We're proud of a few facts. First of all, the events of October 5th were not the introduction to the civil war that many wanted. We're proud of the fact that October 5th is a day where innocent victims from neither side fell. We are proud of the fact that October 5th was short, which soon thereafter brought politics back to the institutions, the parliament, which we circled by the electoral process implemented at the level of the Republic, which we entered into the election process through agreement with the representatives of the authorities, through the unspeakable recognition and acceptance of the electoral law proposed by the Serbian Radical Party. These are facts that speak of us as Democrats, not as about those who look forward to defeating their society, regardless of those actors who produced it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7231	Is the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ikovic? Mr. Ivkovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's not a replica on the replica. You, in Mrs Milki Marinkovic's replica, challenged Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic's replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7232	So, to be clear, a replica on the replica is possible, only that another person is replicating the previous replica. It means we're introducing a new rule in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7233	Mr. Nikolic answered the line to Mr. Jovanovic, and he will get it of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7234	That's not how we've interpreted it so far. So far, the replica has been on the line, and Article 98 says the speaker can only talk about issues that are on the agenda. There's a law on the agenda on the protection of minors. The previous speaker, whom I've replicated, began to talk about October 5th and bright moments, and you didn't warn him. I've replicated, I've received a replica on the line and yet we still estimate that there is a certain privileged position of DOS MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7235	No, it's an old question, Mr. Ivkovic. Of course, I don't mean to amnesty an MP who opened the issue on October 5th, which of course is not on the agenda, which was on the agenda on October 5th. We have already exhausted this agenda on October 5th, 6th, and we are pleased to adopt the DOS proposal. So, I don't amnest at all, but when a round of debate is opened about what's not on the agenda, and when the replicas refer to what's not on the agenda, then it's a circle that lasts, so you're talking about what's not on the agenda, so it's Mr. Jovanovic, so now Mr. Nikolic, and it's like that, there's nothing I can do. The only thing I'm giving MPs the right to use their right to replicate. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7236	You're right, Mr. President, the only thing I'm going to talk about is the subject that's on the agenda, because for 15 minutes now, there's been an issue in the agenda that doesn't make sense for you to be silent Serbian radicals, it's going to turn out that we have something to hide or that Mr. Jovanovic was right about, what he was talking about, about the former regime. The main thing is he wouldn't know who won September 24th if it wasn't for the SRS. Just laugh, especially you having as many of you as there is for one van. Had there not been SRS controllers in the election, who would have proved it to Slobodan Milosevic if he hadn't won the presidential election. Whose data you used and whose statements in public calmed the situation, i.e. convinced Serbian citizens that Vojislav Kostunica won the elections. Would that just go the way you're saying it now and why you're now saying that a complete past regime participated in stealing the election and trying to manipulate the election. If you count us as the past regime, then when you talk about shortcomings first, about bad phenomena in society that happened while we were in the Serbian government, don't shut us down or at least shut us down when you have to say what was good, and in which the SRS only participated. We were never used to stealing from the election, we were always stolen from the election. When you laminate over the election results in Kosovo and Metohija, none of your groups, none of your parties have been individually stolen in Kosovo and Metohija, you never existed there. There, the Socialists stole from the Serbian radicals. When you kept the box in Kosovo and Metohija anywhere, it wasn't in your interest, it wasn't in your interest, but that's why our MPs were being held, beaten by the police, and that's why the boxes were burned, so we have footage and videos, as we open the polling station at half past seven in the morning, we're burning a box that's already full of ballots. This is the truth about the political scene in Serbia by September 24th and 24th. On October 5th, don't get too boasty. You're saying that in the building of the Assembly and the building of television there were uniform cops with long weapons. I think that's where they belong. You do not wonder what Maki was looking for in the Assembly with Molotov cocktails, for you, please let it go, it is perfectly normal for you to set the Federal Assembly on fire, and it is abnormal for those in power to defend the Federal Assembly. If there's a mistake in being in charge that day, it's a mistake not to defend the Federal Assembly at all costs. You wouldn't have left if you hadn't already bought a full service of national security and all the police generals, and I guess you can see that now. That, which is now being guarded by Mr Djindjic not to go to jail because he has been harassing and villains all over Serbia. That's true, you can't get away from the truth. This whole mess and this deviation from the subject was caused by an MP, a lady from Požega, who shouldn't be holding moral sermons right here. She has no basis in her life for moral sermons, especially for Serbian radicals. You know very well, ma'am. You know that very well, and what you're doing, using your position, and legalizing the facility where your place is, and building a house on public land, and putting your husband in office in the Pozeg City Assembly, and a few more things, ma'am, which, as a gentleman, I'm not going to bring out here in public.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7237	Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7238	And when we talk about election results, yes, Mr. Ivkovic, somewhere we win, we have more votes than DOS, and somewhere more votes than the Socialists, like the Golubins, but DOS is about 20% weaker than it was in the last election. That's what the analysis says. One more thing, I don't know whose candidate Vojislav Kostunica, the DOS list - Vojislav Kostunica, is the DSS list without Vojislav Kostunica. Nothing else in this country is clear to anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7239	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Janjic... Under the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. Come on, get rid of it, you want a replica or a Rules of Procedure. [[Milka Marinkovic, from the post: Do I have the right to reply?]] What do you want? Wait, wait, wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7240	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 101 of the first position, indent 5, which says that the reminder is given to the MP, if it presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. In view of the fact that Ms. Milka Marinkovic does not have a line of rights under this Rules of Procedure, I simply demand that the previous speaker be made aware of the violation of this provision in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7241	I'll just tell you why I didn't say a warning. Bringing out the facts of private life yes, but from the official, related to the official position, no. If we speak and this principle applies, we have cases on the other hand, the exact same, abuse of official positions, and whether it is private, or whether abuse of official position is a private or official matter. Let's play like that. Please be principled. You've caused an entire circle of replicas, so now we'll hold out. You cannot claim the right that you deny others, I beg your pardon. I don't want to cheer here, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7242	I'm really amazed right now, imagine what I did: I legalized the garage, I legalized the facility, and I paid twice the obligation that someone only pays once. That's terrible. You know, I wouldn't be surprised if you said what you had in mind, it's in your style, in your manner, absolutely, and you told us that, just not at the pay phone, and I wouldn't be surprised to hear you say it at the pay phone. It's clear to everyone what you're about to say, that's what every woman here has heard and said by the radicals. But what can't be hidden is that Milka Marinkovic did not steal a single dinar in this country, that Milka Marinkovic did no illegal thing, that Milka Marinkovic did not take part in any of her votes in the destruction of this country in which you participated, Mr Nikolic. And therefore, look what you've been doing, and what I'm legalizing the garage is a big deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7243	Still, there's a breaking point, now I'm well-concentrated, and you've caused the replica. No, no, Mr. Jovanovic mentioned it, but fine. [[Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: She caused a replica.]] If we want to speed up, my suggestion is to talk less about the applicant and more about the law. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Janjic, and then Rade Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7244	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7245	Let's hear it, gentlemen of the People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7246	Who's having a hard time in the congregation? Here's some water. (Glass: time, theme. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... If we consider, the subject-cheese and vermin in this society is next, then we'll discuss you too, sir. If we consider the conditions that our children have lived in the past 12 years, which are behind us, I think it is necessary to pay all the attention and resources necessary to restore our children to a better future and perspective. It should also create an opportunity to play sports and conditions for regular schooling for all children. We all know that the DOS government as its greatest achievement highlights the abolition of the Ministry of Sports and Youth. The ministry's jobs have left to the Ministry of Education, which is in a very difficult material and economic position, so this very important area will remain neglected, and therefore care for children and youth. The hot slap also enlightened DOS's sport by naming Gaš Knezevic as minister of education. In order to talk about the moral character of Gaš Knezevic, I would have to ask the chairman to warn all audiences of the assembly session by the small screens to turn off their apparatus if they have heart problems or a program to track people under 18. It's so dangerous. I will give my opinion on the said Minister when parliamentary questions are on the agenda, i.e. answers to already asked parliamentary questions about the said Minister. I object to the draft law that, in Article 2 of this Act, the order of harmfulness of certain products did not adequately list or carry out a weight categorisation, i.e. damages that could cause certain products, i.e. actions carried out or not carried out. Example: In Article 2 in position a) or 1), the use of cigarettes and tobacco products is, and in the same Article 2 of position d) or 4) the use of intoxicating drugs and drugs in non-therapeutic use with psychoactive influence on minors. I guess the promoter was aware of what was more harmful and dangerous for children and young people. Also in Article 2 (e) or (5), the legislator provides for the protection of minors from pornographic content products i.e. magazine and video tapes. Gentlemen, by abolishing the Information Act, all electronic media and also the daily lists, without any control and sanctions, expose, among other things, minors to bombings and propaganda of various sects and homosexual associations. In particular, political organisations that actively involve underage children should be sanctioned. In Article 5, the draft law provides for a ban on selling cigarettes to minors. He's not going to send a child to buy him cigarettes or possibly write a certificate to the child that cigarettes are meant for a full-time person. I think this member is inadmissible in our terms. In Article 19, paragraph 12, which regulates criminal policy, penalties for violating this law are also too mild. The legislator is going so mildly into this area that the offender of this law and in the repeated case imposes a mild penalty on the ban on the performance of certain activities for up to six months. The legislator in this area, i.e. by punishing all persons who perform acts that can be harmful to children and young people, must prescribe maximum harsh penalties that will detimulatively affect law enforcement in this area. The proposer in the last paragraph of the bill says no funds are needed to implement this law. That is not true because funds are needed and should be provided as a priority. We all know that both personnel and material - technical means are missing in the fight against this evil or mafia, if it is known that these mob groups are economically strong and technologically well equipped. Despite certain failures and irregularities in this bill, this law should be passed and some corrections should be made as soon as possible to improve it. For us, Serbian radicals, children and their future have first place. I guess for the rest of them in the O.R., too. Children are our greatest wealth and the future of this people, so I hope everyone in this room will vote for this bill, except for those whose election campaign has been funded by drug and tobacco dealers, that is, our children's poisoners. And just one sentence, Mr. Chado, in your statement yesterday, you shared the responsibility by saying that the causes are on one side and the consequences are on the other. That's where I agree with you. The drug and the tobacco mafia were on your side back then and now, and that's the cause. Since the October Revolution and the causes and consequences go to your soul, that is, the conscience of the parliamentary majority, who decides everything by voting, regardless of what does irreparable damage to the entire people. First of all, children and young people, and then everyone else. And, Mr. Biologist, at the last meeting, I called him, a large company called dinosaurs. Now he's been denied, because dinosaurs still exist. The metals are at your door. Go out and tell me if you were going to destroy the metal complex and that dinosaur.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7247	Mr Tomislav Nikolic, advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7248	Mr. President, you've injured Article 99 of Section 1 and 2. I know that not all MPs are equal in your heart, and I accept that. I know you don't appreciate us equally, but you shouldn't show it in your address to the MPs, and especially not to wait for MPs, who you know your objections will cause laughter in the hall of your members, your political group. You, trying to calm the MPs of the DOS, when Ambassador Janjic spoke, said, "Let's hear it, gentlemen." You've never spoken to an MP like that before. That is what I consider a demeaning of the MEP Janjic. I'd ask you to at least pretend that we're all in this congregation equal, even though you don't feel it. We will feel disappointed, as most Serbian citizens are already beginning to doubt that you are just as democratic and you are personally oriented, as you are trying to present it, and the citizens have already seen DOS imagine democracy. I'd like to ask you, Mr. President, don't, try to find out who you'd like to make these remarks to, and don't... do not send MPs to the Serbian Radical Party. Just to inform these locusts that are constantly reported to be MEP Janjic from Vladic's Han, that Serbia understands him enormously when he speaks, that we are not all born in the same region of Serbia and that we do not all have the same emphasis, that we may not have a good focus, that we may be wrong in the slopes, but that's what the environments in which we live say, so also the MPs who come from those environments say. This should not be a reason for your demeaning of any MP, and ask a little - Slobodan Janjic is gaining increasing popularity in the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7249	You're absolutely right when you say that all MPs do not lie equally on my heart, but you're absolutely wrong when you say that I don't appreciate everything equally. I think Mr. Janjic knows that very well. When it comes to him, I think he knows very well my relationship with him, including with all the other MPs, and he didn't, after all, stand up to my reaction. It was a natural reaction in a way that, as usual to him in particular, he went out and addressed me when he went out for a pay phone gesture, and that gesture was given an adequate answer. I think you can point out that remark, but I don't think Mr. Janjic would give me that remark. The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7251	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, unlike individuals, or some MPs from the ruling coalition, who went out for this pay phone yesterday, and also today, who have not come out to say absolutely anything about the law that is before you and which is proposed, not to say what is good in it and what is bad that could be corrected, I really apologize to the gentleman for what he said before, and literally, I have no objection to his exposure, because man has tried to point to something that is wrong, and it is normal that no law is ideal and that it should be pointed out what is wrong in him. However, they did not go out to do so, but only came out to show pathological hatred for the SPS and the legislator of this law. I'll try not to do it, but it's very difficult not to respond and overcome emotions within myself, when individuals come out with such an arsenal of spit on the SPS or the former government, they say, come out to talk for five minutes. But that's what it says most about them, about their threshold of dignity and morality, I wouldn't talk about them anymore. As far as the law is concerned, I may not say that he was in the ideal time and that he could not have been brought before, but it is too much to see which are limiting factors, or those restrictive limits, which simply did not allow, or did not give the opportunity to pass this law, perhaps before. It took a lot to do, test, see, get through this crisis, put it on paper. This is one preventive law, which I think runs through the back cars when it's due, because we're all witnesses, and I think most of us here are parents and that none of us, let's look ourselves in the eye like this, wouldn't come and sign against any provision here, when it comes to his children. Would someone let a 13 or 14-year-old kid go to a bar after midnight, consume alcohol, or God forbid, get him on thin ice, try drugs, or leave school, for such vices, and I don't think any parent who wants to take his kids on the right path would allow or sign against any provision here. I wish this law had come under code, that no one would know who suggested it, so let me see how everyone would react. So this law is preventive, given that we are really faced with the fact, which is what the colleague also talked about, from the opposite camp, that drugs already appear in primary schools, that it is really a set of evil circumstances that catch up with dirty claws of children, especially those minors, who are most suitable for manipulation and for that kind of thing. So, it's not a child sanctioning, it's not a ban, it's a sanctioning of those who offer such a thing, and it's up to us all, and to our parents, at all institutions, educational, social, cultural, informative, to educate and ultimately protect them from the abuse of these vices, which are getting bigger every day. Statistics show that underage crime has been on the rise, especially lately, even in relation to a crime committed by a minor, then, that the percentage of these minors is much higher than they have been, compared to their population. So we have to deal with it now, simply, to stop this negative trend of growth in this part and try, by calming the situation, to treat these problems. Furthermore, you know very well, yesterday someone was against it, when we connected NATO bombings to increase crime -- well, gentlemen, you know how the borders became, especially the border towards Albania, but practically no longer exists, drug dealers and drug mobs, Albanian, in any way wants to undermine, and enemies from the field to undermine our patriarchal education, to rip away the roots of that education and to take away our youth, to make it easier to master this part. Now, that's what we have to fight. Gentlemen, in the end, let me tell you that I am very sorry and that I was not surprised when I read that the government refused this project. I was very surprised, at the beginning here, when we adopted the ministries, or the Ministry Act, when the Ministry of Sports and Youth was subjected to another ministry, practically, we put it under the rug and then we gave up some great concern for the youth. I'm sorry today that I won't be able to be in the field of my football club, where 50 boys are 10 to 14 years old, tonight they're going to be running after that ball, to see what it's like to be with them, how much effort it takes for us to take these kids to the football field, not to go to the cafes, to distract them from the drugs, from all those vices, from the sects, who, like the birds of predators, walk around our children and drag them into those vices. Therefore, gentlemen, when you abolished that ministry, it was clear how much concern it was, or how much the government would care about the younger generation. If we all came out of this, from this most basic fact, that we're parents, that we're really big problems hanging around our children, it took a lot of, or a little amendment, to improve the text of this law, but ultimately to accept it, because it's about time that this law was passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7252	The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7253	The Honorable Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished members of the Government, would use these five short minutes to derail about two thesiss, based on which to attack the proposal of our law on the protection of minors. The first concerns the fact that most of the issues, which are governed by this law, are already governed by other regulations and that this exists in our legal system, and the second thesis that this law favours, or gives priority, bans and repression, in relation to measures to support the development of minors. I don't think any of the other angles, from which this law is being attacked, are standing. I would come from the government's opinion, first of all, which we all received as MPs, where in the second position we see one formal flaw, but it speaks sufficiently of the government's serious relationship to one bill, where the government in its letter calls for Article 192(2) and (3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which discusses the matter of the parliamentary question and answers to the parliamentary question. This is no parliamentary question, this is a bill that is not proposed by the government, and should not be wrong. Furthermore, it is stated that children's rights are to living conditions, etc. already governed by the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, the Law on Social Care for Children, the Declaration on the Protection and Promotion of the Rights of Children in the SRJ. I now call upon both the Government and all the MPs, if, in the cited regulations, it means the Law of Marriage, and the Law of Social Care on Children, find one member, find one attitude that resembles (not the same, but which is) the norms that are in our bill, I think we are ready to withdraw this bill. There are no touching points with our law quoted regulations. That's what everyone can see if they take to read those laws. As far as the 1996 Declaration on the Protection and Promotion of Children's Rights in the SRJ is concerned, it is a programme document from the federal government, which has taken the right to take the protection of family and child as one of the priorities of social policy management. Also, we don't have any content-based common lines with our bill. The illogicalities continue to follow. On the other hand, some regulations are cited which are supposed to be regulated in the same way already in the legal system. There are certain provisions, I must admit, in the Law of Public Order and Peace, which are arranged similarly. Not identical. So, this law of ours forbids some of the things that have been arranged a little bit wider. There are things that absolutely don't stand. For example, the protection against pornographic content products is provided by the publication law. The law was passed in 1991 and changed three or four times, with 11 members. None of these 11 members speak of any pornographic content or prohibitions related to these content. So, a very arbitrary assessment of the government, which I don't think has any cover or can happen. The law really states that the state is obliged to provide tax relief for publishers of publications, which you have just abolished with the tax package. So you haven't even read that law from the aspect of the tax laws or from the aspect of this law that we have proposed. As far as any parallel to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, we have not predicted any crime against any of our members by this law. Exactly, respecting a dominant position in the legal theory and practice. It means that the codification of criminal law at the level of the Republic of Serbia, or even better at the level of the SRJ, needs to be avoided by these so-called blank criminal acts, means acts that are present in special laws. All crimes should be found in one modified criminal law. We've just left room for the government and we're appealing to the government to put some ideas from this law, if it feels necessary, into this new coded criminal law. What is particularly arbitrary in the government's view concerns the touch of this law, namely some of its provisions with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This is where the members of 12 and 13 and 15 and 16. The law, and the 15th and 16th, speak of religion and sects in relation to Articles 41 and 43. The Constitution. I'll remind you it's article 41. The constitution envisions guaranteeing freedom of religion, which includes freedom of belief and confession of faith and religious rites... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And Article 43 tells of it, I bring in, that the citizens are guaranteed the freedom of assembly and other gatherings. That's not controversial. We are precisely in these norms and laws, in which we have tried to very well comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and above all with Article 44, which says that action is prohibited, which aims to violently change the Constitution of established order, breach of territorial integrity and independence of the Republic of Serbia, violation of the Constitution of guaranteed freedoms and the rights of man and citizen, challenging and encouraging national, racial and religious hatred and impatience. We're in Article 15 right now. We say that the bill prohibits those types of religious learning or its application, which promotes religious intolerance, religious-national hatred or exclusion, violations of public and personal safety, public order, health and morals, family roles, rights and freedoms of other people. So we respected the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as we will continue. I'm just saying, about this part of the repression, just one sentence, this law can't even be rounded up as a law of ban and repression against minors. Of the 15 prohibitions and obligations prescribed by this law, 12 prohibitions are directed towards the environment in which minors live and school and work, and all three are tied to minors themselves, and for them there is no penalty, and no fine, no prison, but only educational measures, from reproof to reference to these special centres and increased supervision of them. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7254	The word has a minister, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7255	When it came to the fact that the law primarily tries to solve something with punishments, we didn't even talk about the fact that those penalties apply to minors, but simply that's just one part of the story. Otherwise, it seems to me, and I'm not a lawyer, so I apologize if I use some of the wrong terminology, I don't think we're really convinced enough or at least one part of the MPs, and there's a reason to say exactly where exactly some of these provisions are defined already in law. You mentioned a provision relating to pornographic records. So, there is a Criminal Law of the SRJ, which says, who manufactures and sells, breaks up publicly under the heading "production and breaking up of pornographic files", publicly exposes himself for selling or obtaining files, images or other objects that are hardly offended by morality, will be punished by fines or prisons until one year. When it comes to alcohol, when it comes to drugs, I wouldn't want to get the impression, even if it's part of the MPs and part of the audience. It's really important that we know that this is regulated by already existing laws. I wouldn't want anyone to get the impression that the government doesn't think it should be sanctioned for someone breaking up drugs. So the SRJ Penal Code, which leads another to the use of intoxicating drugs or psychotropic substances, or to drug intoxication, etc., will be punished by imprisonment from three months to five months. If the act is committed against a minor, the perpetrator will be punished by a prison of one to ten years. So now the question is, is it more appropriate that what is fines are in the legal proposal proposed here or are more appropriate to these penalties. It's the same thing as the subject. This is more appropriate for me. We can talk about it, of course. When it comes to weapons and ammunition, the "Official Messenger" of the RS, the Arms and Ammunition Act, the approval for the acquisition of firearms will not be issued to a minor. Also, there are penalties that apply to that. When it comes to serving alcoholic beverages to minors, the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, which, in a catering or other liquor store that sells alcoholic beverages, serves a minor who has not turned 16 years of age with a hot alcohol drink or served it with another alcoholic drink in quantities that can lead to the intoxication of that person, will be fined or jailed for up to 6 months. The Law on Public Order and Peace, "The Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia, who gambles with a minor or the resignation of a room or otherwise allows for the gambling of a minor, will be punished by imprisonment for up to 60 days. Parents or a minor who commits an offence are also subject to sanctions. So there are laws, and I wouldn't want to leave a shred of doubt that by refusing this law many things remain unregulated. There are provisions that protect and when it comes to drugs, and when it comes to weapons and when it comes to pornographic content, and the question of sects remains open. When it comes to this, I'm really not sure or convinced that the law on the protection of minors should regulate this issue. We talked, and one of the MPs mentioned it here, it seems to me yesterday, what about other parts of the population, and when it comes to sects. Are they just minors? One of the MPs even mentioned here that one parent doesn't know what he did under the influence of his child's sects. So, come on, if that's such a serious question, let's see how it should be regulated. Obviously, it's not enough to regulate it just this way. It seems only to me that it is important that we here make it clear once again by our ministry and government, that many of these provisions really exist, that they are already in the Criminal Law and in a proper way, and I even think, and that is, of course, a question, and now there may be different views, that prison sentences for many of these works are far more appropriate. Only fines would not be appropriate, especially when it comes to drugs, weapons, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7256	The word is Zoran D. Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7257	I must admit that it is indeed a pleasure to argue with a member of the government who is very competent and very cultured to either defend or challenge certain solutions that are on the agenda. I have to admit, it's a rare thing to do at these sessions. I guess that's why, as an exception, I use the opportunity to express such a personal relationship to Mrs Matkovic and the way she performs her duty. I think that Mrs. Matkovic and I understand each other very well, but still, because of the general public, it would not be good to be unspoken. Samosan said that in one part of the government's opinion, the laws quoted by the government and the provisions of the members quoted by the government in its opinion simply do not stand or have any touch points with any provision of the Bill on the Protection of Juveniles. About some of the things Mrs Matkovic said about selling and breaking drugs, you will not find it arranged in the criminal provisions of this law. So it's logical that we rely on the application of the Criminal Code, because it's a very difficult crime, sanctioned. So we didn't predict it and there's no repeating. As for the relationship to the weapon, you quoted a good member and we have no doubt that Serbia's MUP, when granting approval, in accordance with Article 8. The law does not grant approval for holding arms to minors and persons deprived of their business ability. But we're not talking to our norm about granting approval, we're saying that a minor is not allowed to sell, give or offer weapons. We're witnessing the fact that a weapon is present today with a minor. Secondly, there are weapons, not only firearms, which do not require procedures and approval of the MUP. Not to mention daggers, boxers, chains and all the other dangerous things that young people do to each other, which are covered by this norm and are not covered by the Arms Act at all. That's enough of these cult examples. We just had an idea, since the government has indicated that it will pass a new criminal law of the Republic of Serbia, that these norms we have installed here in one or another similar way, with a wider scope of the entities to be protected, should be found in the new criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. We as a parliamentary group, if the Government does not do so, will certainly intervene with the amendment in this regard. (President: Time. ) The bottom line is that we, like you, want to realize and think that this bill fills a legislative gap that we now do not have in the legislative space of the Republic of Serbia, that it is a useful law and that it should be truly accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7258	The word has Minister Gordana Matkovic and then Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7259	So it is possible that these provisions can be a complement to some of the provisions that already exist. First of all, I wanted to point out that when we talk about the government or the DOS, which you assume will vote against this law, that it does not mean that many of these things are not already regulated, perhaps not entirely, but they are well regulated. It's an additional problem with this bill, which has a lot of things that are relatively imprecise. You say knives, boxers. Here it stands - giving or offering weapons, spraying substances or poisons and toxic substances. Even if this bill is supposed to represent some precision, then, in our belief, he himself would have to be much more precise.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7260	The word is Branislav Ivković.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7261	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, this law regulates the protection of minors from endangering their physical, mental, social and spiritual health and development. It's a fact you can't get around. You might wonder why only a minor for certain situations, especially when it's a specific area of recruiting in sects and mental manipulation. Isn't the answer next - let's protect what is most valuable in this society and what is the perspective of this community and its future, which are young. In criminal law, we'll finish the job in over 18 years. Why throw away something that's over, which is worth it, which can be complemented, no problem, just because something's going to be done later. So, we had plenty of opportunities to hear. We heard a lady who here fathered four children and respected professor of the University of Belgrade declares herself a thief, that he was transferring money to the SPS, dead cold, and then rebelling when someone tells her that according to the same law that made that law as the minister of construction, she legalized the garage and the bar or business space. He's very surprised, but he's not surprised that he's just accusing the man, the cold one -- we're filing criminal charges, the investigation, the indictment, we're judging and we're judging here after this pay phone. But she gets angry when someone else tells her. Therefore, protection can be from many mental manipulations, covered by the Law on Guiltyness, and in particular it is unwarranted to accuse other people. In essence, this law defines the right to protect against the use of cigarettes, alcohol, cubes and machines for entertainment, intoxicating drugs and medicines in non-therapeutic use, with a psychoactive effect on minors, products with pornographic content, stays in places where the physical safety of young people, sales, giving or offering weapons, spraying matter or poisons and toxic substances, the influence of individuals, groups or organisations that harm the psychophysical development of young people by their activities. Mr Zoran Nikolic has shown that a significant part of the solution, which I have given here, is not covered in the rest of the legislation, and the other parts of the solution complement uncovered areas in the existing legislation. What's the big deal? It is important to point out that the law is not really restrictive, there is no punishment for young people, but there are penalties for those who, for profitable reasons or for wanting to earn financial resources, cite young people on a path that destroys their future and inevitably destroys their family. The life of young people is directly related to family. Of the 2,500 young people who went through FONAS counseling, none came without one parent, and most often came with two parents, with a sister, with a brother. A young man who went off on a drug trip, who was recruited in a cult, who went into alcoholism, he destroyed both his family and his family. It is certain that this law essentially helps the state and parents, to create one legislative mile, to react more effectively and on the basis of the law. The minors are only foreseen in three cases of childbearing measures. As for that provision up to 16 years old with an old man between midnight and 5:00 p.m., the provision does not apply when it comes to concerts, when it comes to performances, when it is clear and located the one responsible for the safety of these young people. I just want to point out that the fines are between 50,000 and 200,000 dinars, that there are all the things I've been saying and I'm really saying, it was a very serious job. Three ministries spent half a year, the second part of 1999, in activities. So, one extremely significant group of experts from all relevant areas. Sect experts, let me tell you right now, are divided into two groups, those who are fighting the sects, who are jeopardizing our Orthodox, patriarchal and multi-confessional environment, not just Orthodoxism, but all other religions in these areas. Another group of experts are those who are corrupt by sects, who work for sects. That's very well known. This law was done by the first group of sincere cult fighters, who want to preserve the patriarchal environment in these areas, in a multiconfessional community. As far as FONAS is concerned, FONAS is funded, FONAS's objectives and work programmes are directly financed. Finally, those martyrs who had to sign something very ugly signed, and I showed the record that everything about FONAS is clean, and as far as the donors he has an indicator are concerned, everyone has contracts and everything is fully covered, signed by a financial inspection.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7262	My garage has become very popular, because you have nothing else to hang on to. So she legalizes herself according to the law, as Mr. Ivkovic said, and it's over. It's no big deal. I would recommend Mr. Ivkovic to worry about how he will prove where he is needed, how he has taken money from the budget funds for his party, two million and something. This is how I quickly calculated about 13,000 average workers' salaries, those workers so keenly cared for by Mr. Ivkovic. Mr. Toma Nikolic will leave my garage alone and see how he and his two-ar apartment, which he took from the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, will take the pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7263	Right on the line, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7264	As this DOS guy writes to me, who is extremely disappointed that you and 58 members went into DOS and took over, it's not about the garage, but that you built a family house on public land and legalized it all during your government. And as this man writes to me, and you don't deny it, because it's true, you've legalized a temporary facility with six joints. The permit was given for five years, including your place and turned it into a permanent session of the congregation. I didn't steal anything, and I'm not going to steal anything in my life, and if there was anything I regretted until you started talking about it, now I'm happy that I've done some things in my life.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7265	The People's Messenger Golub Rajic has the word, and the next is the Messenger of the people, Miroslav Christodulo.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7266	Dear Presidency, Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Mr. Professor Dr. Branislav Ivkovic, Nikolic and Ruzic have proposed a law on the protection of minors and I do not think it is too late for his adoption to stand in the way of all the deviations of young people, particularly minors. Although the situation in our society would certainly have been better if such or similar law had existed or been passed 15 years ago, not that this area was regulated through several laws, as the Minister here confirmed. It's an alarming situation in society when it comes to all the vices and problems that follow minors. The fact is that the decline of standards, lives are difficult living conditions and everything that has followed us over the past decade due to the embargo and NATO aggression has contributed to strengthening the functioning of drug dealers, sects and others, and that during this period the state could provide less in the social and educational sphere. That is why it is strange today, when more favourable conditions have been created in our country, there is, above all, no sanctions, that the government and the competent committees have not accepted this proposal. They do not want to regulate and protect minors from all threats to physical, mental, social, and spiritual health and development. What makes it wrong for gentlemen that minors have the right to be protected from the use of cigarettes, alcohol, cubes, drugs, pornographic magazines, arms sales and others? I think it's a good thing this law defines the notion of minors and guardians, as well as certain rights of minors, where certain prohibitions are arranged and limited certain behaviours and actions of minors, as well as other minors in relation to minors. So the adoption of this law is in the interest of both minors and parents, as well as the education system and other institutions of the minority, in the interest of all citizens of Serbia. We must not calmly see that the youngest members of our society in elementary school become fans and addicts of cigarettes, alcohol, and drugs, sold to them everywhere, often in the schoolyards, without talking about cafes that work most often during the night and that there are very often minors and in that time. How can they be prepared to attend school the next day, and what is their concentration in class? In my Negotin six years ago, the Executive Board of the Assembly formed a headquarters that was later renamed to the Committee on the Combating Expansion and Abuse of Psychoactive Substances, where participation was taken by doctors, professors and others. I can tell you that it's achieved a lot on the propaganda plan, that young people of these halls turn away, above all from the so-called so-called. psychoactive means, while alcohol still uses a lot. A student at the Negatin High School, Marina Zlatanovic, is in Berlin these days attending a children's rights conference. I want to say that the local government in Negotina has been very often dealing with these problems, that the people have given confidence to the Socialists, but the Serbian government has changed this in its "democratic way" by introducing a forced administration. Following the adoption of the ovacone, crimes from this area in the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia should be defined closer or better. It is a good proposal to form a national Youth Protection Council as an institution, and would be formed by the government, with the task of taking care of psychophysical health, the development of minors and the formation of young people as stable personalities of our society. The criminal provisions, which are given in the bill, I think are appropriate and they must have an impact on law enforcement, regardless of whether they are legal persons, natural persons or entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7267	Timeout.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7268	Here, I'm done. It's a good thing the law stipulates that a re-defension ban is on the move for six months. It is positive that a minor would be given educational measures for violations, for every young man should be directed and returned to the right path. The implementation of this law and its criminal provisions will result in financial resources, which would be used and given to institutions and state bodies that care for the protection of minors. I think that is why this law should also be adopted, that it is good and that this social problem will be resolved by its application and should certainly be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7269	I give my word to the People's Messenger Miroslav Christodul, and let the MP Ljubomir Mucic prepare for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7270	Dear members of parliament, the bill provides for the protection of minors from the harmful influence of alcohol, cigarettes, drugs, cubes, pornography, weapons and small religious communities called sects here. The most important protection, protection of minors from violence, is not foreseen, which has been the specialty of the former regime in the last years of its rule. The MPs and the promoters advised us yesterday to tell us here, what's wrong with this bill. And here, except that others also mentioned the Minister here, except he's repressive, not preventive, because he forbids minors to use Article 2 point (a) (cigarette) and purchases in Article 8. (cigarette, drinks, weapons and pornography) and, in particular, the punishment of minors for this act in Article 21. Except that children's rights to living are protected by laws on marriage and family relations, on the social care of children and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and parts of this bill are provided for by law on public order and peace, on violations, on criminal law, on gambling, on publishing of publications, on arms and ammunition, and besides all that others have detailed - this bill is also unconstitutional. I'm surprised what an expert team of parallel law can suggest and give us here a law that violates at least four members of the constitution. Therefore, Article 17 of the Constitution, which gives freedom of movement, then Article 43 concerning Article 17, which guarantees freedom of assembly and which is violated in the draft laws to Articles 2, 12 and 13. Article 41. The Serbian Constitution, which guarantees freedom of religion and Article 45, which guarantees freedom of expression of opinion, has been violated in the draft law to Articles 2, 15 and 16. So this law is, in addition to not leading to a solution to what it wants to solve, which uses repressive measures, rather than preventive ones, it is also unconstitutional in these members. Article 12. The bill is said to be not allowed in public places, without the escort of the guardians, detention of minors up to 16 years of age in hours from 00 to 05. That's contrary to Article 17. The constitution, which guarantees itself, says citizens are guaranteed freedom of movement and housing, and the right to leave the Republic of Serbia and return to it. Also, Article 43. The constitution has been violated, which guarantees freedom of the choir and other gathering and without approval. Article 13 says - not allowed for minors to participate until 16 years of age in manifestations of commercial-propaganda character, such as competitions in beauty and similar. This is a member who violates Article 43. A constitution guaranteeing the freedom of the choir. In Article 15. - those types of religious learning or its application that threaten and harm the physical, spiritual and social health and development of minors are prohibited. And, the next member, which is a 16th term, is said to be banned from the operation of pseudo-religious, pseudo-cellular and pseudo-phylogic sects. So other than the intensity that's obvious, it's not a legally valid solution because of Article 41. The Constitution guarantees freedom of religion, which includes freedom of faith, confession of faith and religious practices, and Article 45. The constitution guarantees freedom of conscience, thought and public expression, as well as opinions. The statistics offered by the promoter, which are percentages of the harmful effect on minors since yesterday, shows the consequences of the previous policy, which has destroyed the perspective of young people. So the promoters take care of drug abuse, alcoholism and sects, and they better worry about the adverse impact of conspiracy theories, chauvinism, racism and works referred to in Article 15(2). The bill, which includes promoting religious intolerance, religious and national hatred and exclusion, violations of public and personal security interests, public order, health and morals, the role of family and the protection of other people's rights and freedoms, which members of parliament from the SPS and the SRS violate almost every time they come out for this speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7271	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic, and the next one registered for the discussion is Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7272	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by shortening the time to discuss this very important legislation, as well as what awaits us in the future, it is proof of your concern for the youth, and even worse yet, to shorten the time for discussion the proposal was given by an educational worker. This is proof of how much educational workers in the past have cared about change and new authorities and how much they care about our children and our youth in the future. I think that this comprehensive legislative project by the SPS parliamentary group, at the initiative of young Socialists and FONAS Foundation, has proposed to protect minors from endangering their physical, spiritual, mental and social health and development, because from ancient times it has been "the people of the younger world remains". The right of minors to psychophysical health makes protection against certain vices, and everyone has the right to schedule the importance of this protection, and I would like to present my vision. I would place first protection against the sale and supply of weapons due to the threat of physical security; then protection against the use of intoxicating drugs, with psychoactive influence; then protection against the influence of individuals, groups or organisations, that is, what we have popularly called here, from sects; further, protection from alcohol use, cigarettes and other tobacco processing; then, protection from gambling and entertainment machines. The draft law on the protection of minors has been submitted primarily for preventive reasons, ahead of the most destructive phenomenon - alcoholism, drug abuse, sects, which have a devastating effect on the youth. The bill is timely, extremely important, as the prime minister of youth and sports said in his exposé that a lot of politicians were sitting on boards and on the solemn stands, I guess that time had passed. It was the end of the quote at the time, and now the same picture in the solemn lodges, the current politicians in the new clothes, in the old places, and the youth in the cheerleading stamp, ruins everything in front of them. There's never been more violence at sports events. By abolishing the Ministry of Youth and Sports and Legal Protection by the minister of justice, who cried out here last night, the pay phone still hasn't dried up, over the fate of our youth and their future, it is indeed a characteristic that this government has given up caring for the youth, who has been very concerned about bringing her to power. The minister of education cares more about new teaching programmes and high school fees, how to get the children out of school, not the youth. Since protection covers all persons up to the age of 18, it is clear that it is a school youth and that, besides parents, the highest responsibility is borne by educators. The proposal for this law is primarily in the interest of minors and their proper life course and future, and for this are the responsibility and responsibility of full-time persons in all areas of social life. My opinion is that young people need to come up with a new way of life and action and some positive experiences that can be proposed to this occasion are, which should be taken into account, if it is formed, national advice, above all, the formation of youth sports schools in all sports clubs, including a large number of children in their work, and in order to train health, develop a sports and competitive spirit, which will significantly affect the separation of youth from vice. I have an example for that. In Valjev, a youth handball school of male and female handball clubs were formed, then a football school, a volleyball school, and I can tell you that in these small sports collectives it's covered somewhere between 100 and 200 children, which is truly a remarkable success, and they produce extremely valuable results. Then, under two, construction of sports facilities for mass sports. On this occasion I also want to list the sports pool in Osecina, sports hall in Mionica, where many children and the youngest will use and develop their health... (President: You're out of time. Here, I'm done. It's also an experience. In the previous period, we took sanctions against certain categories in Valjev, closed cafes that work longer than prescribed working hours, did not give permits to work in cafes and casinos, as well as parties for entertainment near schools, but all those measures that gave positive results, due to their sanctions, were declared unconstitutional. Gentlemen, many of you will be funny, but many of you have been Tito's youngsters, involved in then social organisations, sports organisations, political schools, and not to mention, suggest your own way of seeing that the national Youth Protection Council, which should form the Republic government, would try to find solutions to improve the protection of the psychophysical health of minors, because our people said "better prevented than treated". Finally, I would like to make a proposal, which should be considered, since Mrs. Minister has an understanding of this subject...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7273	Mr. Mucic, I've already warned you about time-out. It's seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7274	A particular problem is the protection of minors from minors and should be considered on this occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7275	The word is by MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7276	Dear Madam Vice President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Minister Matkovic, I must speak before I speak of the law to say that yesterday I experienced two disappointments. First of all, I couldn't expect Mrs Milka, I think her last name is Marinkovic, proposing a brief discussion for five minutes, given that her mother is and since I expected that her maternal instinct to work there, knowing that the law certainly won't be passed, but I expect 250 MPs to talk about such an important topic at least 10 people, so some things could be heard, learned. If this law is not to be passed, another must be passed, surely from the DOS parliamentary group, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Another of my disappointments is that yesterday, who knows which time I heard such threats from young people here, and I realized that the problems in Serbia, which I expected would be resolved biologically between partisans and Chetniks after so many years, do not end, that this is the fate of our Serbia, and it looks like we're going to continue through the parties now, to lead such hatred, revenge and so forth, which I don't think is good. For a successful journey into the society of developed countries, in addition to the natural resources that the Republic of Serbia has, I think they are extremely rich, in addition to the economic structure that I also don't think has been destroyed, as it has been heard here, and I don't think the young people who talk about it have remembered for some time what Serbia has had and what it has now. So the economic structure is like this, from business to business, from activity and sphere to sphere, to sphere, it's better somewhere worse, but I don't think we can talk about it being completely destroyed. One rational policy should be characterized and the key to success is in the young, talented and powerful personalities that are formed in this society and in these areas. In short - only young, healthy, physical and spiritual, the strengths of this society can lead to prosperity. Of course, in the formation of a person in every environment, and even in ours, participates primarily in family, school, social environment, but I can tell you that the family can't do anything, nor can the school, unless certain conditions are provided in the social environment. I remember for a while when high school kids, high school kids, 20 o'clock could be out of the house, on the street, in blouses, wearing hats with class signs and departments, means marked hats, and after that, they had to go home. That's why I'm saying there's nothing parents can do unless there are conditions in the social environment. That's why I think it's time and it's proposed law and how important it is. I think this law on the protection of minors is much more important than all the laws we've passed so far. And when I say this, I'll say a few facts. At my home in the Kingdom, which is a small town, there are 125,000 inhabitants, on April 24, I listen to the report of a drug trafficker, that about 130 drug traffickers are caught in the King's office annually, that drugs have entered every high school and that drugs are known to be used in some primary schools. Therefore, the law on the protection of minors is good. I'd say it should be even more restrictive, but you're gonna say it's been a while, so I can talk like that. Otherwise, I have one more thing to say -- that I have the impression that there is one team of competent experts here, because we who sit here in this room are still involved in politics, we are often in our party parties, in the Assembly, and few gentlemen have time to know what our children are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7277	The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7278	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished fellow MPs, respected members of the government, is clear that the debate we are having on the legal proposals of the opposition Socialist Party shows us in this hall, as well as the entire theatre in front of small screens, that if, at this moment, the chairman of these sessions asks you whether today is Wednesday, you will vote from DOS discipline that today, 22. 5th year of the year 2001, Wednesday. That is not disputed, fellow MPs, for all of us, is not particularly for those of us who are in opposition. It's your supremacy, which can do anything in this home, we socialists know best. But when it comes to this legislative proposal, about the protection of minors, I would like to ask you, to suggest that at least the problem that this law on the protection of minors treats, you do not plead as if it does not exist, and that you do not satanize this bill, because neither the law nor those to which it applies deserve nor those who have submitted it. This legislative proposal should put order into the most sensitive part of our society, in the most vulnerable part of our society, and these are minor citizens. Therefore, the protection of minors from endangering their physical, mental and social health should also come to your understanding, dear colleagues of the DOS. Never, as in these troubled times, is it necessary to try to protect minors from the use of alcohol, tobacco and tobacco products, from using intoxicating drugs and medicinal products with psycho-active activity, as well as the devastating functioning of various sects. What regulates this legislative proposal will certainly be welcomed by all parents and all educators, from teachers, through teachers, to high school teachers, because the law itself imposes on them the need to talk to children and parents on this subject. You know, respected colleagues, from your midst certainly a series of problems faced by primary and secondary school teachers today, or these days, when they take students on a field trip, what problems they face when it comes to smoking and alcohol. The fact is that 23% of children aged 11 to 15 smoke, according to UNICEF data, because that's what we got on Saturday, something similar to what our colleague had already quoted, that two-thirds of 15-year-olds had experience with alcohol, or that more than 20% of primary school students had tried some kind of drug, that 30,000 Belgraders, mostly young people, because no one, unfortunately, has experienced late age, intravenous drugs, and finally, that four tonnes of drugs are distributed from Kosovo throughout Europe per month, including us. Isn't that enough reason, isn't it, that UNICEF's data, respected colleagues, DOS MPs, represent nothing for you, that this law is considered in one dignified way, that serious members are not placed in it with embarrassing and inconclusive objections, as it was yesterday, and as it does today in part. That this law, in this or some other form, is necessary, confirms what the Sunday issue of "Politics" is, out of the mouth of a police officer in charge of six elementary schools, here in Vracar, who is in charge of drugs right now. According to his statement, while before NATO bombing in these six primary schools there were only a few students who were smoking pot, or weed in their jargon, and now they can't single out a few of those who don't smoke weed from seven eight classes. It is clear how important it is to consider this law today. She's brought your "Politics" since Sunday and that all of us need to panic over the results and the drug problem situation. You take a lot of things, from ecstasy, from anaphthemin, to a school beer, to an apause jargon, and that's a beer with a dozen pills of apaurina. Is there still time to wait and the law in this area to wait for some other time? I claim not to, and it's safe not to, dear colleagues. If the government had heard of this problem and thought that it was one place to regulate this area legally, it was from the moment our legal proposal entered the procedure, which was March 23rd, that it could prepare a new legislative proposal and we Socialists would certainly vote for the bill. She could, and could continue to recommend at least some of the legal measures, thus reducing the problems that arise in young people under 16 years of age by using alcohol, tobacco, and drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7279	The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7280	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, the proposal for this law on the protection of minors is the first more serious attempt to be comprehensively, rather than segmentally, normably regulated by this very important matter. This is a very important matter because it refers to the most important and important part of society, children and young people. Studies show a significantly faster growth in juvenile delinquency compared to an increase in adult crime. In particular, this bill plays a preventive role in the face of the most destructive phenomena, such as: gambling, drugs, sects, alcoholism and other similar phenomena, which are destructive to young people. It should be considered and enormous damage, for individuals, and for society, from these deviating social phenomena. This law would take a strong step in eliminating or at least easing juvenile crime, which is also painful for all families who face this problem, and for society in general. I can't even point out this time the role of Western countries, Western forces, in encouraging all these harmful social phenomena. The introduction of sanctions and all kinds of embargoes prompted these phenomena and it is certain that the West has been bringing us all this time, all these 10 years, mostly these negativity. And what is interesting for other countries in transition, the West does not encourage economic development, does not bring better social life, but drugs, sects, very successfully transports to all countries in transition. The bill itself is very concise, precise and clear. Already in the second article, rights to the protection of minors against the use of drugs, alcohol, cubes and any other negative phenomena are defined. The fourth member is closer to defining the ban on the use of cigarettes and tobacco products. Eleven minors are not allowed to stay in gambling facilities, twelve are told that they are not allowed to retain minors up to 16 years in hours from 00 to 05, and when it comes to concerts and similar events it is allowed and there are clear differences. Article 13 states that underages up to 16 years are not allowed to participate in manifestations of commercial-propaganda character, such as beauty elections. We all know very well how degutant it is and how deplaced it is when, apparently, 13 - 14 - year - olds appear on these manifestations. Article 16 prohibits the operation of pseudo-religious and pseudo-phylosophy sects, which, through mental manipulation of young people, create the mental and physical dependence of these persons, in order to exploit them. And what's wrong with all these norms -- nothing at all. This bill also envisioned the education of the National Youth Protection Council, with a precisely defined role. The National Council would form the Serbian government, which would regulate the composition, organisation, conditions and other issues of importance for the work of this council. The bill also has criminal measures, which every serious law, with such content, should have. Of course, the implementation of this law requires the inclusion of all relevant social institutions in the fields of education, health, social policy, information, culture, and I believe that this law should be adopted as soon as possible, because it is of multiple importance. There's no time to postpone, because drugs, sects, alcoholism just runs our cities. There's nothing restrictive about young people. There are only clear sanctions for those who participate in all these devastating negatives, and that is normal for every society that claims to cultivate a healthy and young population. The law should be adopted, because it is in the interest of all Serbian citizens, because it allows one legal and legal way to act against major evils such as drug abuse, sects, but also other negative phenomena. Finally, when it comes to a similar story here in the Assembly, about 10 years of the rule of the SPS, I think the representatives of the new government should first and foremost turn to themselves, because all the additional elections held these weeks clearly show that the SPS is getting everywhere. Yeah, he's getting another party somewhere that's distanced himself from DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7281	The word has been given by MP Dusan Prorokovic, followed by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7282	Dear People's MPs, I am extremely pleased that this legislative proposal comes from the SPS's MP, because 12 years later, the Socialists finally remembered the problems of minors and minor delinquents. Listening to Mr. Ruzic's explanation as a proposing, they seem to have become religious. However, there is one small problem: this is not about the protection of minors, it's about cheap social demagogy. Most of the provisions treated by this bill are treated by other legal acts. Most of the procedures sanctioned by this bill are sanctioned by other legal acts. First of all, I am referring to: the Law on Social Care for Children, the Law on Weapons and Ammunition, the Law on Public Order and Peace, the Law on Violation and Criminal Law. Article 4 states that a minor is not allowed to use alcoholic beverages and intoxicating drugs in public places. Even under existing laws, which I have stated, this is not allowed unless in the past 12 years you have applied a different practice. Article 6 states that the person known or found to be a minor is not allowed to sell, give or offer arms. Well, even under the existing laws that I've stated so far, and it's not allowed now, unless, in the past 12 years, you yourself have been applying a different practice. Article 11 states that a minor is not allowed to stay in gambling facilities. Well, even under the existing laws that I've stated, that's not allowed unless you've been applying a different practice in the past 12 years. In particular, I find Article 16, which discusses the ban on the operation of pseudo-religious and pseudo-healing sects. That's the highlight of your hypocrisy. From 1990 until today, it was easier to register the pseudo-religious sect, as a full - time religious organization, than to take out a personal card in the Interior Secretariat. In Serbian legislation, you have put the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Islamic Religious Community, the Roman Catholic Church with yoga flyers, with Satanists, with various other destructive pseudo-sects. Some of them even promoted the media. I'll remind you of my friend, Jara Ribnikar. For the past 12 years, you've been speeding up the work of religious sects in this society and this country, and now you're talking about their devastating influence. It is not true that legal legislation cannot be changed because of Western European legislation and EU legislation. Look at the law on the faith of Greece, look at the status of the self-called Scientological Church in Germany, and what status it is in Serbia. Who has allowed the scientologists in Serbia so far? You know, when we talk about protecting minors, we're talking about a negative impact on their socialization. It's not just alcohol, drugs, gambling, sects, pornography. It's primarily a desperate system of values. The desperate system of values that has been made in this country for 12 years, which has not been made by DOS, which is not the DSS rules. It was the ones who were in power. A system of values in which minors are role models of turbofolk stars, criminals or psychic Zorka. This cannot be changed by one legislative proposal, and in particular it cannot change something that is social demagogy, a cheap social demagogy. This changes with systemic, root reforms. First of all, I think of reforms in the field of the school system, reforms in the field of relations between the church and the state and the Law on Faith and Religious Organisations, reforms of the entire system of values. It's, unfortunately, a job that will take a long time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7283	The word has a folk MP Dragan Ciolic, followed by Zlatan Jovanovic. Replica, excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7284	Dear President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I must first of all say that the basic function of this law is to protect minors from endangering their physical, mental, spiritual and social health and development. As for my predecessor's exposure, I must say that the mistakes were certainly made, but I must point out that we as political thinkers of mistakes can also learn, which I do not see as a characteristic. As for some of Mrs. Jara Ribnikar's promotions and her sects, I must say that there was first and foremost a companion who we distanced ourselves from. Also, I have to rely on another exposition of one predecessor who mentioned the unconstitutional character of this law. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] In Article 41. The Serbian Constitution, which is also called upon by the government, states: "The freedom of religion, which includes freedom of belief, confession of religion and the execution of religious rituals, is guaranteed. Religious communities are separated from the state and are free to perform religious affairs and religious rituals. The religious community can establish religious schools and charities, and the state can materially help religious communities." In our law, and above all, Articles 15 and 16 do not violate this constitutional provision. So, in Article 15, and I am saying this for the public, not primarily for you, it is said that those types of religious learning or its application, which threaten and harm physical, spiritual and social health and the development of minors, under religious learning or its application under Article 1 of this article, are meant to promote religious intolerance, religious, national hatred and exclusion, violation of the interests of public and personal security, public order, health and morals, the role of family and the protection of other people's rights and freedoms. And this is in complete confidence according to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Also, Article 16 prohibits the operation of pseudo-religious, pseudo-healing and pseudo-phylosophy sects, which, through mental manipulation of young people, create the mental or physical dependence of these persons in order to exploit them. I must say, this is in accordance with the RS Constitution. One of my predecessors, a colleague of Christodulo, called the religious communities... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... That is, he accused us of saying that we are peoratively calling religious groups, communities, religious sects. I think it's a very dangerous thesis, but later on, I'll explain why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7285	The word has a folk MP Dragan Ciolic, followed by Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am of the opinion that this area is very important for the proper development of younger categories and should be regulated by the quality of the bill. What I don't like is the wish of most DOS MPs to bring the debate down to that minute that underestimates every serious approach to this problem. The impact of Europe and its pomodar madness on our children is very great. It is not all that Europe is positive. There are many things that Europe itself would root out, only if it could. The roots of evil and deviating phenomena are deep, and when evil prevails, it is difficult to fight it afterwards. The fact is that part of our children's drugs, alcohol, that a part of our children live by the reputation of the heroes of American and Western European movies. Data is their freedom, but it's not all for them, and with their lives where they're going and where they're going? The destruction of Serbia's national being has largely begun with various sects of which none is more than 200 years old. The impact on young people, the lack of national consciousness, the breaking up of Orthodox flock, is one of the main tasks of Europe and America. Subduing the whole world with their goals, their rules, the means to use it are precisely planned and determined. Many of you are terrible advocates of Serbia's Europeanisation, many of you prefer Europe than your country. You've exploited your children for political purposes, abused them by telling them stories about Europe. It is an interesting story of an American woman, who, staying in Montenegro and hanging out with Montenegrins, said - all the time I felt like a gypsy among queens, alluding to a beautiful Serbian costume, covered with rich Serbian history. We have nothing to be ashamed of and we have much to offer our children. We should do everything we can to preserve and develop a patriotic spirit and genuine love for the homeland, to cultivate generations that will be proud of belonging to the Serbian people. She's part of her education in both family and school. It's not enough just to say that drugs are evil, that alcohol is evil, that pornography doesn't contribute to the development of a healthy personality. The responsibility of our elders is evident and we will all do much if we sow our own example so that our glow shines upon our children. God has given us all freedom, but it is not all to our benefit, nor to our children. I believe the DOS in this area will act in a destructive and destructive manner, as it has already largely worked in all spheres of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7287	The word is made by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, and after that, Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7288	Ladies and gentlemen, listening to some predecessors' statements, I have concluded that we have not all received the same text of the proposal here, because some MPs have talked about sanctioning minors, some have talked about taxing minors, and I haven't read that anywhere here. Namely, what I've come to understand from this law is sanctions, but for those who abuse minors, for those who want to benefit materially from the accident of others, primarily minors. Also, for the first time today, I have heard from one DOS MP that sects are called small religious communities. I would ask this congregation majority - DOS to declare this and make their position, the official position of DOS, whether the sects in this country are considered small religious communities and thus accept themselves as legal and other religious communities, or something else. I consider this law very serious, and that is why I do not accept this and prioritize the rejection of this proposal that is before us. It is serious because it refers to minors, to a social group that is mentally still not mature enough to judge for itself, to make decisions and to suffer the consequences of these decisions and responsibilities. Therefore, this proposal should be carefully considered and tried to reach one solution that will be acceptable to all MPs, but also to the complete social community, or the state of Serbia. In my opinion, there is no need for the Priory to reject the proposal that came from some opposition group, just because it came from that group. I believe that, primarily the Government of the Republic of Serbia, should, on the basis of this law and of the other regulations that are in place, carry out a concise, to extract what is important, which is new, which is not covered by the current regulations and, ultimately, to make a legislative proposal that would fully cover this population of minors and that the legislative proposal should enter into the assembly procedure. I think it's best that in one place, all the works that touch this social group, a group of minors, are found in one legal project. It is obvious and undeniable that some of the things contained in this proposal already exist and are already prescribed in other legal regulations. Therefore, this law has some excesses. It seems to me, some things are not contained in any other regulations, nor are they in this law that is before us. As a result, this law, by the Government, should review and review its links with other regulations and all of this should be handled and submitted to this assembly, as a single project, for adoption. What this proposal lacks, I may be wrong, it seems to me that there are no other regulations, it is the protection of minors from abuse for political purposes. I believe that there have been a lot of abuses in this country in the previous period by both politicians and political parties. It was primarily preceded by the current government, which is the current opposition used by minors, high school children, primary schools, for its political purposes. I'm going to give an example of the beginning of October last year, when a group of children stopped me at Ibarska Masteral, right at midnight. They blocked traffic, they created a kilometre column of the vehicle, reportedly out of protest over non-recognition of election results. (President: Time. ) To my question, who is responsible, who is the organizer, with whom I can talk to to pass, answered that there are no organizers and that they have done so on their own initiative. It happened at Lazarets, a few miles from the highway, at midnight, a group of children, younger than my children, were at the magistrate's office. I consider it child abuse, and I believe that this segment should also be processed and included in some legal project. By the way, I don't know what current and existing law sanctioned the sale of alcohol to minors, the sanctioned sale of cigarettes to minors, what law provides for sanctions for those who do so and thus achieve material benefits? I believe that these are provisions that must inevitably enter into some of our regulations and have to be applied. Some provisions concerning this proposal are contained in some regulations, but the hand on the heart, are not applicable or at least not consistently applied in the previous period. They should normally be applied very rigorously in the next period. I support the criminal provisions of this law, because they are primarily preventive, so they have a preventive character for those who are selling all of these funds that are covered by this proposal. To conclude, I think the government should, if we already have the fact that most people will not accept this, take this law into account, process it, supplement it, and with one single, comprehensive proposal go before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7289	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and then by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7290	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very often the case, at least so in Nis, that members of various religious sects, as one said in small religious communities, are visiting the townspeople of Nis by offering them propaganda material and very aggressively trying to explain their, as they say, learning. Victims of such abuses are often minor faces, because they are best received on those beautiful fairy tales, stories, pictures they offer these children and are not able to see what is good and what is bad for them. It's not the only danger that lurks underage faces. I happen to live next to a primary school in Nis and the school yard is polluted with syringes, needles and it is clear that children are already in their earliest childhood, with about 10, 12, 13 years of age starting with drug abuse. Marijuana has already become the usual thing at school vacations, parties, parties. Almost all kids use this one, as some say, easy drugs, and I don't think there really are any drugs like this. Smoking is something we're all used to. Kids have been smoking since childhood, parents don't even forbid it anymore, like it used to be when we were young and young, that it was primarily a shame to burn in front of the elderly, and today it's a common phenomenon. The cafes are full of boys and girls who, instead of lemonade, drink tequila, vodka and other drinks that don't smell strong, so they can hide the use of those alcoholic beverages, and no one even bothered to check how old they are when they bring liquor. Serbian Radical Party MP Zlatan Jovanovic has already talked about political abuse of children. I resent that there is no such provision in this law. The Serbian Radical Party's statute provides that minors cannot be party members, but in the previous period we have had more examples and more demonstrations, strikes, when minors have just stopped the teaching process and today we have certainly great consequences that school years have not been regular for many, either last or this year, or in the previous period. I think that it is necessary to protect the rights of minors from political abuses and abuses of half-lifers, and some political parties are actually more aggressive than religious sects. On the other hand, I think it's too strict in Article 21 to impose a punishment for a misdemeanor for minors under the age of 16, if they're not accompanied by an old man in a public place in an hour. We don't know what public place it is, what kind of concerts and events are made for such a population, so, for children under 16 years old, but really if those kids aren't under the fact of drugs, if they're not under the fact of alcohol, if they're not disrupting order and peace, why wouldn't they be in a public place, and the public place is in front of a building where children in summer heat often up to 01, half two, end time or are in some way under the attention of their parents who see their buildings from the terrace, etc. Tomislav Nikolic has already said about it that we cannot introduce a police obligation to always check where you've been, whether you've been to a concert or at some event that's been staged for minors, but I don't think there should be any jails, no jails, no discipline, one youth should be allowed. They're not as naive as 16 or 15 anymore, as we may have been. Most of them know how to take care of themselves. I think it's just a matter of stricter supervision and punishment for what directly threatens the youth, which means what directly harms her. About the harmful consequences of drug use, especially cocaine, we don't have to go far. In our area, we can see that. Throughout Belgrade, today it's a drug cult, today it's sniffing and people who deal with all sorts of professions. Perhaps what Zlatan Jovanovic, an MP of the Serbian Radical Party, has just said, best of all, is to draw out what is best of all, to arrange it in a unique way, and all that is provided for in the Criminal Law, in the Law on Infractions, in particular to point out in the special law on the protection of minors and to punish more severely the offenders who violate the law in relation to minors, than to other persons who can more knowingly consider the consequences of the damage to all of this that is stated in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7291	The People's MP Stevan Kesejić has the word, and then the MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7292	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Bill on the Protection of Juveniles, proposed by the Socialist Party of Serbia, as an MP of the Serbian Radical Party, I believe it is not the best, but I believe that the idea is good, because today's problems with minors and at all in this age of up to 18, who are more and more obvious from day to day, must be discussed by concerned MPs in this assembly and, of course, that one law is passed from such discussions which would really be such a law that would really protect minors, and at the same time also have such laws that would prevent pressures, or what minors suffer from us adults and society. By not accepting that this DOS problem is being discussed, the majority shows how much care these children have, and I have to say here that most DOS deputies probably didn't get along in this law. This law doesn't apply to them. It refers to the protection of minors, because it is not said in this law that it is forbidden to smoke, that it is forbidden to drink alcohol, that it is forbidden to gamble, that it is forbidden to use intoxicated drugs, that it is forbidden to endanger other MPs or other citizens who are in contact with DOS MPs. It is not prohibited by this law or carrying a heclare in cars, as our ministers do. Therefore, the influence of individuals such as Vladan Batic should not be crucial in rejecting this law. We should discuss these provisions and these members that are ahead of us, and the minister should come through the institutions to implement this law. Of course, when Parliament, the legislator, makes such a bill. I am sure that the influence of the West in general on the premises of the Serbian state and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia also reflects the adverse consequences of raising and raising our children. I'm sure that this new image of the West has a harmful effect and effect, which can be seen today, here at the pay phone, from the individuals of the DOS majority, who were absolutely talking about what this law should protect from. They spoke of small religious communities, and we know well that the sects today in our society are doing great evils, certain sects, such as Hare-Chrisna, Jehovah’s Witnesses, etc. Those who were not in a position to meet this evil are likely to belong to such sects, which is why they are speaking affirmatively about it today. Such sects, such as these two I was just talking about, or apostrophe, are just as fatal as the fatal NATO aggressor. Hence, I consider it in the interest of protection, not only of our underage children, but also of the protection of the state, culture and education, we must keep in mind what kind of organizations we will register to whom we will allow organized work in our society, and, above all, when it comes to minors and there we must make sure that they cannot engage in such activities. (President: Time. ) Not by criminal provisions, but by educational measures, which we expect to have in our education and in those institutions of lower age preschool education. We are not sure that we will succeed, since we know that in the pre-election campaign, here and among you MPs, the educators pushed their children to the front lines, fighting for political points, which reminds me very much of the Cypriot terrorists who did the same at a time when they sought their rights, or their wrongs, through minors. (President: Please finish. ) Mr. President, you have limited very little time for such a law that is important, I cannot say everything in five minutes to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia who is for the protection of minors and who is against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7293	Speak faster.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7294	So, members, or MPs of the SRS, have to bring out what they're up to, and if you don't let me say it for this speaker, I'm going to have to talk anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7295	That's a better solution. You've overstepped your time for a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7296	So, better, if I am already a national MP, to let me say to the end, that this law that is here before us has confirmed one thing, which is that the concern of the protection of minors is not the concern of the DOS majority, is the concern of a proponent who in any case did not well propose this bill, but the SRS and the MPs of the SRS believe that the problem of minors should be put on the agenda and we should seriously deal with this in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7297	The word has a National MP Slavoljub Matic, followed by Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7298	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in 1997, as one of the few opposition committees in SO Pogorec, I came out with an initiative to launch a joint decision by all committees, with the help of municipal authorities, to remove pornographic magazines and materials from the window of the kiosk near schools. Unfortunately, this initiative was rejected by the parliamentary majority of the SPS and the JUL. I asked myself the question then - why? Also, that's why I asked myself why the SPS, why he signed this bill. The SPS, which came to life, and we'll remind ourselves that one way of life allowed a sect called JUL to rule all the way here. This sect that has bitten this society and this social income, the sect today does not live, but thanks not to the SPS, but to the time that has passed from the maturity of this people, thanks to October 5th and election results of December 23rd. The answer is why exactly the SPS, we won't find it in one fact that in 1992 or 1993, and we'll remember that yesterday we didn't hear from anyone, we heard about TV Palma, but we also heard that she was again under the control of the SPS, the national state television RTS, that she was broadcasting porn on Channel Three. Most likely, it was meant for these very young people we want to protect by this legal proposal. Of course, the answer to that question is perhaps in this particular debate, which is intended to block the adoption of system laws and this parliamentary obstruction to make it difficult to pass essential laws that will enable small and medium-sized enterprises to work, to enable changes, which are beyond the need for justice, in order to sanction exactly what this law wants to sanction. The answer to that committee initiative I got on October 6th from one of the SPS leaders who told me - we had to reject every minority initiative. Of course, we are building a society where such initiatives will not be rejected, we have confirmation in the work of this Parliament and many amendments that are incorporated into the legal projects of the government, and of course let me just say one more thing - you get the election results 20 days ago in a village in a fire municipality, in the village of Brežana, where we had additional local elections. The left group, a parliamentary group, could not find its candidate, and this extreme right had its candidate and he received eight votes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7299	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic, and followed by MP Anita Beretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7300	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, although fully aware of the fact that young people, as one of the social groups of our society, but also many other groups in our society, should be supported and helped in proper development, that is, in a normal life, I must say that this bill certainly does not go in that direction and is not an appropriate solution and I will vote against it. I have three groups of remarks and there are practically two general characters, and one is just to paint how this bill is drawn up. So, the first general remark is that this bill on the protection of minors is extremely repressive. This is not the way the state should address minors and that is not the way to point out, to norm some behavior of minors that will lead to some desired effect. If we look at the bill, of the total number of members, at least half contains words - it is prohibited or not allowed. I don't know about the existence of such a positive law in our legal system, so the law that contains so many provisions - it's forbidden, it's not allowed. During the treatment of each topic, repressive measures exist as some ultimate instance in order to protect some standardized behavior. However, when it comes to young people and the direction of a social group as it should live, action should be quite different. It needs to be positive, to provide motivation and must be based on education. It must be based on education. There is no law that will forbid a young man from using drugs if he thinks he's good. So we have to take measures that are completely different from the carcinoma, and these are the measures that concern education and motivation. So we have to show some other way, point to another direction, which one can develop, so that we don't even get into a situation to reach for drugs, alcohol, etc. To pass a law in which we will say that it is forbidden is indeed something that is over. It's a recognition of defeat. And we can't admit defeat. The second general remark concerns fellow lawyers who have been working on this bill. This is that practically this bill contains nothing more than the prescribed provisions of some other positive acts in our legal system, which Mrs. Minister and other colleagues spoke of. I really need to mention them, for the sake of the public, it wouldn't be worth not knowing. So, all this has already been governed by other regulations, the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, the Law on Social Care for Children, the Declaration on the Protection and Promotion of the Rights of Children in Yugoslavia, the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, Article 132, the Law on Public Order and Peace, the Law on Games on Happiness. There is also the Law on publication of publications, international law and criminal law of the SRJ, which treats the problem of intoxicating drugs. So we have a situation that all of this already exists as a comprehensive norm, if we accept the norm with the part that has its sanctions. It all exists, and I don't see why it's a parliamentary club, or why our fellow MPs are now pulling it out of some laws, and they're showing us here as the bill of law that we're going to solve the problem, which really doesn't have any dilemma, there is. And, in the end, I have an objection to the way it looks in the law itself. I think it's the worst thing for a country to pass laws that can't be implemented in practice. The legislator must always have this feeling, a remarkable feeling, that what he brings to parliament will reflect in reality and will apply in reality. If a state or legislator adopts laws that do not apply in life, which in real life do not have the reflection the legislator requires, then the state loses authority. I don't know how many years ago this country passed a law prohibiting smoking in public and official rooms, offices, airports, etc. You know very well that this law has absolutely not been applied on one single day. It's a disgrace to the state. It's a country's side. Now, be careful what kind of solution we now have in this proposal that we've got. I'm really only going to name a few members. For example. Article 4. - a minor is not allowed to use cigarettes in public places. A minor is treated, as proposed by this law, by a person less than 18 years of age. Do you really think we can pass a law like this and enforce it without people laughing at us on the street? In which cafe will you ban 18-17-year-old boys from smoking? How are you gonna do that? So, it's no good, and because of that, when you say that the experts did this law, these experts threw out what's most important, which is that the law has to be kept in mind that the law has to be applicable. Furthermore, he says - an employee of a minor in a natural or legal person involved in the traffic of cigarettes is not allowed to sell. The ability to work in this country is 15 years old. So, there's no way that a child of 15, 16, 17 and 18 can work in any class and sell cigarettes. You know, normally, it's just that it's inexhaustible. And the members of the 12th and 13th were already speaking. So, because of all of this, each of these three parts I've singled out, each one is enough to vote against this law. I don't think a law like this should be passed. This is no way to solve a problem that certainly exists. The way is completely different. That's one positive approach I've already mentioned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7301	The word has the People's MP Anita Beretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7302	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to respond to a multiple objection addressed to my account, as I am seriously resented that I went to the Assembly with a proposal for the discussion to be cut short for five minutes. I had more reasons for that. First of all, I believe that the bill itself is, in its essence, a political marketing party already placed in the political past, I hope, Serbia. Secondly, but for me, more importantly, is that as a mother and as a teacher of my students, with whom I spent 12 or 13 years, I don't want to hear more than five minutes of regrets from those who made my fate, my family, the fate and position of my own children and my students, and I was very quick to repent, because the gentleman from the DOS Group, after me, had an even better proposal, so for more than a minute I don't want to hear anything as a proposal to protect my children. As a mother, as a teacher at school, I have invested in protecting them from the protection of those who have ruled our lives for 12 years. As far as the law itself is concerned, I really think his primary intention is to somehow wash that unclean conscience, which is already visible in the very explanation. I need an answer to the question - who is to blame for the second paragraph of this law, where it is said that the difficult living conditions, the fall of standards and the reduced ability of the state to act in the social and educational sphere, due to the embargo, are a sort of kind of pressure of the international community on Serbia, etc. Who's to blame? Who created the policy that has led us into conflict with the whole world, which has impoverished every family, which has destroyed the education system, which is so called for and where, in the light of this bill on the protection of minors in the interests of all Serbian citizens, fills a part of the legislative space that gives the state, but also parents and educational workers the right, the obligation and the possibility to act in a legal and legal manner against all three evils. What serious state wouldn't do that? Our country hasn't done that, unfortunately, in the last 12 years. What serious family wouldn't do that? Unfortunately, many of our families did not do so because they were destroyed by poverty and hard life. What smart and responsible school wouldn't work? Ours didn't work. Our school, starting with basics, and at all levels, I'm talking about primary school, because I spent 13 years there, is primarily an ideological school with my directors who, unfortunately, many, or under their patronage, have been doing everything that was done, which we talked about here a lot yesterday and today -- why our schools have become places where we deal drugs, why, when we have such responsible school executives. Let's not go to any other instances. At the same time, the legislators of this law did not hesitate to, for example. Protecting and seeking to build this protection mechanism against minors, the Ministry of Education's budget sets out a great deal of money, and even from an item, from a special account, a student standard, over three or almost four million dinars for the purchase of various passenger cars. And then, they didn't hesitate to, although they're now so barbarous about cleaning up our media and every other field of pornography and all the negative content, from the Ministry of Information's deposit account to TV Palma, too, huge money, for our concepts, a million and a half dinars. And there's been a lot of talk about the contents of that famous television. As for, for example, Article 2 has been said several times or is listed from a) to h) from which all minors are protected. It has been said that all laws, already existing laws, have achieved this protection. I would just like to point out that perhaps you should consider the point h), that children should be protected from the influence of individuals, groups or organisations that harm the psychophysical health of young people by their actions. Unfortunately, from this pay phone, my own children, my students, our young people, pain has been inflicted on them many times in these few months because they heard their mother was all kinds. Right from this pay phone. Through 23 points of the law you cannot wash your conscience [[Alexander Vukic seeks the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7303	Well, the Ministry is mentioned, so there's no reason, no party name, no function, no nothing, transferred from the Ministry, so she didn't put anything on your mind at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7304	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's interesting that you like to come out and say something, not to give someone a chance to answer you, not to give you the opportunity to tell you something. I went out to answer the woman who spoke earlier, so I have to tell her a few sentences. And don't be nervous, be patient. As for Palm TV, it was a good, decent and true patriotic television. Mrs Mojovic, if you have regularly followed these porno films (now I am talking to Mrs Mojovic, because she throws it, and I am talking to you), if you have been so zealous in monitoring pornographic content, I am not, honestly, to be honest. I did something else in my house, right to tell you, I had better things to do than watch movies. If you've seen movies, it's your business. I don't even know what time it was. I know it was Miroslav Ilic before that, but after that, I didn't see anything. So, I know what the shows were, and they're gone, because DOS banned them. These are Kompromis shows, Questions and Answers, the "Dialogo" show that the people watched, because they were the only light in the dark you made, but there's no more of those shows, because you don't like hearing different opinions. That's what it's all about. And secondly, you might want us to invest in "Bunar Wish," is that what it's called, is that your bar? Maybe that's what you meant by "Bunar Desire" to invest money? It seems to me that it's much smarter to invest in something that would pay the people and the state, which would be much better. Maybe it's not worth it. That's how some people told us, right now, I wasn't sure, but here, the lady confirms that Bunner Desire is just like that, maybe because you were protecting the youth and minors by taking them out of school for demonstrations. Is that how you protected underage faces? That's why you don't like it. And not even from high school, but from primary schools you've been doing, taking kids out to the streets, doing political work for you, you personally, not someone else. The worst possible abuse of minors, that's what you've done, in the worst possible way. And there's a fundamental difference between you and me. You today that, God forbid, someone does something like that, you'd shoot him or hang him on the terraces, but that doesn't occur to anyone to do it. And all the resources you used, everything you used to do to do everything possible, just to get your hands on the authorities, and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7305	The word is made by MP Miroljub Veljkovic You have no replica, your colleagues, Mrs Mojovic and Mrs Marinkovic have the right to replica. [[Anita Beretic requests the right to reply.]] Well, let them answer, they have a right to replication. (Anita Beretic, from the scene: a violation was committed according to the Rules of Procedure, I did not cause a replica. ) The ministry is mentioned, the transfer of money from the Ministry, has the right to reply if they appear. Is anyone picking up the replica? He's not answering. ) There is a word from MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7306	After this temperamental political talk, which Evita gave us, it's really hard to talk about this topic. The proposal for this law is initiated in this congregation, if you will in this society, to discuss an extremely important topic. The bill may not be the best, and it certainly isn't the best, but in any case we should welcome it as the first attempt to talk about this difficult problem in our country. The problem of juvenile delinquency, the problem of drug abuse, the problem of alcohol consumption in minors, the problem of the influence of religious sects on young people, and ultimately, the problem of juvenile prostitution, are the problems that should be at the top of each government's priorities. The ten-year war environment, beastly sanctions by the West, and a demented system of values in the Serb society itself have greatly favoured the spread of these deviating phenomena in minors. Behind the mass of the so-called mass. NGOs, which have been operating without any restrictions for 10 years in our country, have been hiding extremely dangerous religious sects, which are destroying the awareness of young people. Our children should be restored to traditional Serbian values, love for the homeland and for their people, patriarchal education and family, and finally, a cult of work and household behavior. That, of course, doesn't mean I'm advocating some xenophobia, some kind of Berlin Wall against all the liquids of world and European civilization. We young people must be able to communicate normally with the world, i.e. we must enable them to accept from the world all the positive things necessary for their normal development. Forming a traditional society doesn't mean closing down to the world. The example of Japan is the most obvious here. Japan has managed to retain all its traditional values, and today it is one of the most developed countries in the world. It is offensive, it is very offensive, how this government and you DOS are acting on such proposals, or better to say, initiatives, to open a broad debate on these problems of vital importance to the nation. You're taking these topics with debauchery and ridicule, here, that's what I'm talking about right now. You use your time for a pay phone, like the lady before me, on these topics, for fire political speeches, according to the system -- what the previous government was doing. That's what we've been hearing for eight months. I have no intention of amnesting the previous government at all now, but that story -- what the previous government did, after eight months of your authority, believe me, in the people no longer "drinks water," absolutely. You simply have to deal with the burning state and social problems, the status of Kosovo, which you delay from day to day, the problems in southern Serbia, the problems with separatists in Vojvodina, the difficult economic situation, the difficult economic and social situation of the population, youth problems, etc. Can this government solve these problems? I'm saying it's obvious he can't. This power, now eight months from now, is clear to everyone in this country, neither in programming nor in organisational, and especially not in human being terms, capable and ready to deal with these problems that have been brought forward. If so, and so it is, it would be best for this people and the state to apologize, simply, come out and say, forgive us folks, we don't know, we don't have the ability, we don't have the personnel to run the country. Let's call a new election, let new people come, who are ready to get caught up in the process. A lot of stories -- previous government, eight months. I expect you'll be talking about the previous government in about three years. You see, what the unions have told you today -- most of you DOS have seen you read this shyly in the lobby, you can't let these leaders read it in public. Look what the unions told you. And you must know, who's trying to get into a conflict, and I've seen the police intervention brigade in front of the Ministry of Privatisation, who's trying to get in a fight with hungry workers, it's supposed to be clear to you from history, it's not going to go well. So don't wait for workers to work out their working methods and tell you that you're good at rolling.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7307	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7308	I ask the Members of the People, those who wish, to make my name known, to look and make sure they remember, have a list of names and last names at the service. As for "Bunara Desire", I don't do business like any country gossiper, so I tip off my bosses what they have and what they don't have. After 12 years of teaching, I had to work at a bar and I'm not ashamed of it. That's what my father gave me. Now I've given it to my brother. Secondly, never, Mr. Wolfie, and you will answer for slander, if I had time to do it, but you are not important to me in life at all, I have never organized and performed my students, and at least put them ahead of me. [[Applause]] Djake elementary school that, one of my youngest son Philip, who was brought in with me at the resistance campaign, late July.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7309	Replica, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be interesting if the lady moved into the police department to work, so she could maybe find out who told me and what he told me about her bar, about what some of her close family are doing, what they do, what they do, what they do all the ways, etc. You can yell all you want, you want to shut this lady up or we'll tell her something different.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7311	Please, in silence, listen to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7312	This is a picture and opportunity of DOS and their democracy. I guess she'll go to Novi Pazar or Prepolje after Leila Ruzdić or I don't know where. That's where it suits them the most, because the Serbs can't listen. As for the story of schools, the distinguished lady is not once, but dozens of times... I don't know where he is. The one with the garage and the bars went out. That's the one from Požega. The one with the wish well is still there. She was taking the students, and if she was taking them next to her, behind her or in front of me, I didn't even talk about it. The only thing I know is that children from the primary school "Dostej Obradovic" have led them to various actions of political organisations, which have brought evil to this country and which will only bring real evil to this country, and this is the DOS and the Resistance. If she was the one, don't yell, because it doesn't make any sense...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7313	Mr. Wolfie, finish your line, please, and the rest will not be thrown away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7314	I'll fold the line in the time it's supposed to be for the replica, not the time when you tell me. So, I'll stick to the Rules of Procedure, but I have to conduct a dialogue, because you were unable to calm down certain MPs so they wouldn't get out of place. What you did, you can sue me for slander wherever you want and for anything. (Anita Beretic from the scene: Not just for slander. First, you can sue me for whatever you want, but you won't sue me...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7315	Don't have a dialogue, please. You keep your mouth shut so he can finish the replica, for God's sake. It applies to everything, don't applaud, please, it applies to everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7316	People applaud, tell her to stop, but I don't mind her. You won't sue me because everything I've said is true. Because you have children, abused them in the worst possible way, and that's what's completely true, and you'll never do that, because we have hundreds of witnesses to confirm that... (President: Time. Hundreds of witnesses who will confirm this to us from Somboro, not one or two men. No wonder in Sombor and local communities, compared to previous elections, you get a percentage of the growing number of votes. From Stapar to Stanisic or wherever else you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7317	We'll continue work at 3:30. [[After break at 15.45.]] Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7320	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, when we adopted the amendments and additions of the old Rules of Procedure, we did not take into account the possibility that some of the provisions of this law on the protection of minors should be introduced into the Rules of Procedure itself. In fact, we were able to get into the Rules of Procedure so that the National Assembly sessions would no longer be transferred to RTS. I think that both underage and full-time Serbian citizens would be one way to protect themselves from the great diapas of lies, untruths, slanders and things that they really don't deserve to see, especially underage citizens of Serbia. My previous speaker has been injured by a member of the 101st indent 5th and on several occasions. When he mentioned in his previous speech one of the greatest singers of Serbian folk music, I came up with the circumstances of my father-in-law, and I didn't want to react, because although he's a big, too small man, he's too small to insult me or my father-in-law. It's about Miroslav Ilic. In his last speech, he mentioned the family of MPs Anita Beretic. Unfortunately, Mr. President, we didn't give him a warning. I ask you to vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, indent 5, which says, if it brings up facts and assessments relating to other persons' private lives, the notice is given to the MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7321	I don't have an answer for that. I'm voting on Mr. Sutanovec's proposal. For 100, against 31, with 13 abstentions, 10, 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has assessed that there has been a breach of Rules of Procedure and of Article 101 of indent 5. The word is made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've done two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. One material and one formal. The material violation of this sublegal legal act is that I didn't mention anything the lady mentioned at all. As for Miroslav Ilic, accidentally someone's father-in-law, I didn't say anything special about him either, but tried to appease a man who is very rude, rude and who throws away a messenger. By the way, Miroslav Ilic didn't teach you to tell Gordani Pop Lazić what you said, because I never heard from him like that, although I didn't know any music. I don't know people's music or entertainment or any music. I can't play or sing, but I only know I haven't heard anything like that, as I could hear from you. As far as family's concerned, I never mentioned anyone's family at all, except the lady herself was talking about her family. It never occurred to me to talk about her children or her husband or anyone she mentioned. You made it up on the spot and voted on something that was absolutely impossible to vote on. You could have voted that my suit was green or yellow, just like you voted that this was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't do it for a second. Don't make it up. When you have no arguments, then you can say -- (let's vote whether they're like this or not. You can also vote that all opposition MPs leave the assembly. Vote it, it would be the easiest and the best for you and, I think, the smartest. Don't cut the discussion short for a minute, but throw out opposition MPs, which you, you're enough for yourself, you don't need anything. So much for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7323	And I have no objection to this remark. Are you asking to be put to the vote that there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Where did I mention anyone's family? That is the will of the National Assembly, not mine. I made my point by not saying a note and not voting on the proposal. Are you asking to make a statement to the Parliament about the injury of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Bojana Aleksic, followed by MP Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7324	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia will not support this legal proposal by the SPS, as we consider it primarily demagogical. Why the demagogue? Because the largest number of provisions of this bill are already contained in existing laws, which my predecessors have already spoken enough and mentioned which laws they are. Despite all the provisions contained in these laws, which we also have in this proposal, unfortunately, our young people have drug problems, have alcohol problems, have gambling problems, have problems in their schools, have problems everywhere and in every place. Why is that? It is very simple, very people who have proposed this law that have led to a perverse and distorted system of values, which have led to the unending position of our young generation. Unfortunately, children in primary schools are beginning to understand this, but in high schools they are already deeply aware of it. They're in one situation of total failure, when their role models are people who shouldn't be. As much as we at home, as parents, teach them something else, as much as we teach them what's good, what's evil, as much as we teach them to kind of believe in a fair world in which a little fairy tale world in which we are, at least in our families, we grew up today's young, first of all, when they come out of the house and when they come to school, they start meeting something else. They see that their parents, who have completed some colleges or trades, who do their job fairly, who die doing their job, have nothing to live on, have no money to afford them some of the most basic things, while others with shaved heads and thick gold chains around their necks, drive some angry cars and some angry jeeps, though, so their peers, although they are no more than 18, 19, 20 years old, because probably their dads came across the night to these jeeps, to these angry limos, to these fat gold chains. It's something that points to exactly what I was talking about, to a perverse system of values, that those who are valuable and working live miserablely, and those who have not worked and learned, who have managed in some easy way to get the money, have managed to achieve something that children naturally tend to do, because no one tends to poverty. Everyone tends to have, to afford themselves what gives them pleasure. It's not the law that will get our children back on track. We are the parents who should worry about it and not just us parents, but also teachers in schools and the Serbian Orthodox Church, as well as other religious communities. Of course, not sects, but what are recognized churches that exist in this country. It's something we need to get our children back on track, on the path of faith, on the path of love, on the path of honesty, on the path of morality, and that's what we need our children to talk about, not any repressive laws. Because we all know that, first of all, young people are rebellious people, and if we give them ban measures, and if we tell them they're not allowed to do something, they'll do it exactly in spite. Let us teach them love and teach them what is right and what is true. That is why I think it is very important that what the Democratic Party of Serbia advocates, which is the return of religion to our schools, the return to the role of the Serbian Orthodox Church, the return to that right, the learning of children of love, the development of those most positive and best things, and then there will be no drugs, dissatisfaction, neither weakness nor vice, then the children themselves will be able to recognise their own path.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7325	The People's Messenger Bojan Pajtic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7326	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are likely to have one of the most anachronous and repressive laws in this assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a law that does not support our youngest citizens. He does not provide them with what is most important to them, but mainly deals with bans and punishments. This law is contrary to a number of provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and in that sense it should be rejected, i.e. we must not, as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, accept a law that does not respect the country's highest legal act. In Article 16. The bill is proposed to prohibit the operation of pseudo-religious, pseudo-healing and pseudo-phylosophy sects. We can figure out a few things out from this. First, that the promoter does not distinguish the sect, the culture and the cult. Secondly, that this provision is against, or not in agreement with, the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which provide for freedom of religion, or if we really want to protect the state from the functioning of the sects, we must provide for precise mechanisms, criteria and sanctions for the existence of such organisations, and we cannot, at any rate, just say something is forbidden and that, as in the case of the People's Movement of Resistance, we prohibit anything that bothers us or which does not agree with our definitions. A good signal is the fact that the Socialist Party of Serbia is being embellished by pseudo-healing and pseudo-phylosing functions, so that it turns its back on its multi-year promoters, various fortune tellers, various pseudophylosophysists, the most famous of whom was that Mr. Salvatore Fisher or Schiffer, who was caught by police several months ago without compensation, alienating underwear and women's dresses on New Sad thighs. Those were your promoters, gentlemen. This draft law does not agree with Article 17(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which accurately foresees in which cases there may be a restriction on one of Serbia's citizens' fundamental freedoms, which is freedom of movement. We can be agreeable, we can agree with the intensities of the legislator to limit the movement due to the safety of minors, persons under 16 years of age, after midnight, so, after 12 hours, but this congenital imperative of the law cannot be done in this way in one legal state, in a democratic state, a precise provision of the Constitution that regulates a particular area cannot be derivated. This law does not comply with Article 129. The Rules of Procedure and in this regard may be a failure to discuss this law at all, since it is not in agreement with the highest legal act, nor is it in agreement with the act that this assembly is working on. Namely, in Article 129. The Rules of Procedure define the obligation of the legislator to provide, i.e. to specify the resources to be spent on implementing this law. The legislator, however, says that implementation of this law does not require specific funds, and that even under this law, some revenue can be made for the Republic of Serbia's budget. However, one institution, such as the proposed National Youth Protection Council, cannot be established without any notion of budgetary and materiality based on some virtual means, based on some of the resources that will come, is not known in any amount, it is not known by what dynamics, in which way these funds will be collected. What scares me most personally is the almost diabolical indifference of the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs when DOS MPs speak of the fate of Serbian youth during Milosevic's rule. In the period between May and September 2000 alone, more than 200 minors were arrested and brought to Serbia on charges of belonging to the People's Movement of Resistance and were beaten, mutilated, broken hands, legs, broken jaws, teeth were broken. It's a great tragedy that obviously the Socialist Party MPs didn't know. Despite the fact that in the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia there are safeguard provisions relating to the position of minors, that minors cannot be arrested or detained, or heard without the presence of parents and guardians, nor can they search the living rooms where minors are present without a witness or guardian present. Although none of these individuals resisted arrests, they were exposed to the scariest torture. That what I am saying is true, and the fact is that obviously MPs belonging to the regime of Slobodan Milosevic are not well aware of what has been going on over the past ten years, I recommend this publication, which is called "Resistance in Police Jurisdiction". Based on several hundred documents and testimony that you can find in this publication that I will later give you, you can see that in Milosevic's Serbia, the youth was not only not protected, but was a shooting savage.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7327	The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarević has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7328	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this law regulates the protection of minors from endangering their physical, mental, social and spiritual health. This is the first member of this law to represent everything and come out of it the whole law. This law could have been on the agenda not only in the last 10 years, but much earlier. Back in the '70s, in the '80s, with a huge amount of capital that the IMF focused on our country back then, it was also logical that with that capital coming in everything that was accompanying, that this capital was being spent on these above opening remarks of this law. Young Mr. Ceda Jovanovic is against this law, normally it is his attitude and it is his style of conduct. In his own attitude, which today represents young people, he has taught us parents and young people that this very type of young man, by his understanding, needs to be nurtured by this society. As parents, we should defend all these ideas that prohibit everything called tobacco, alcohol, drugs, pornography, sex, sects, and everything that comes from these indications. Our youth should spend rational time learning, sports, science and work. That's when society can only count on this young generation to be able to advance something and move on. I know that my comments on this law are from the aspect of my parents, and that's how I behave this time. Every family should take care of their children and young. The state is just a second degree of action and this law is trying to introduce newspapers that are now on the street as a normal phenomenon. When this law was put on the agenda of this assembly, you DOS people laughed. That laugh of yours is strange. Is it not with this laughter that you do favors to all those dealers and to all those poisoners of our children, do you not feel responsible before yourself and before the people for that laugh? These pictures are orbiting all over Serbia these days, and you saw them all, if you wanted to, how our graduates in front of school buildings consume alcohol in schools themselves. It's an ugly picture. It was supposed to sanction this law. Drugs have become everyday in elementary schools, and in high schools it's a normal thing. How are we going to fight like rednecks, and we're going to fight in all kinds of ways, to stop the way everyone who breaks up, who lets and protects, and who destroys and sells drugs. The main drugstore is located close by, which is Kosovo and Metohija. From that space everything comes to us, our children, and so they finance their historical question, and we destroy our future, and these are children. This law regulates the movement of our children in places and places where it is not allowed for them. Imagine, our children and youth who have no obligation, sleeps all day long, and then, in the evening classes, their lives begin. They, with such preparations, are not ready to create new families and new states, because this method of state destroys itself. The abuse of young people for political purposes over the past ten years has been the primary confidant of the DOS government. This law sanctions it, and it will not allow young people and children to be abused. You DOS are against it. We know what that's about? If this law had been proposed by someone from the DOS Corps, it would probably have been analysed and considered positively. I expect that, after this consideration and in these conditions, DOS's government is remembered and proposed a similar law that will be able to correct the disrupted balance in this, to us most importantly, part of our population. The sects mostly work through a young population, and everyone knows that, in each of our spas or some tourist resorts, sects organize camps, gatherings where they draw attention to themselves. Anything's possible there. With play, song and sectarian action, they take the young from such a normal life.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7329	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, followed by Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7330	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I certainly won't vote for this proposal for the simple reason I haven't even read it. When I saw who submitted the proposal to protect the minors, I got sick of it, I threw it away right away. For me, this question was morale, and that's why I suggested that the discussion take one minute. I know that there are many MPs among us who are bitterly sorry that my proposal has not been accepted. For me, this is just as if the late Hitler and the Nazis were discussing the Jewish issue and the protection of the Jews. The former red-and-black coalition had a programme for young people, similar to Pavelic's Serbian programme: one-third to evict, move around the white world, send the second-third to war, the third to try to re-evaluate. That's where those files and those thousands of arrested minors and young people came from. I will give some examples: the summer has passed, as some say here, in the summer of the year 2000, indjia, young people are preparing a humanitarian concert for a severely ill minor from leukemia. The Red-Black Coalition forbids it. The police are destroying the crowd, arresting the organizers, 30 of them, and at least half of them were underage. Case number two: September 3rd, Indjia, a minor with a beautiful poster "Go Out and Vote", which had nothing to do with politics. Mladic is being taken to the seat of the SPS, the former secretary of the party organisation, otherwise retired MuP worker, is being taken away by minors and kept in the SPS rooms for two hours. By the way, he's been hit in the head three times. I ask the parliamentary question of the then interior minister, Vlajko Stoiljkovic -- what will the MUP do, here is the question. What have you done? Nothing. That's why I don't give you the right to talk about minors and protect youth. How young in your wars alone have lost your fathers, how many houses have been lost, and when you dream of those who dream, don't be afraid to dream of me, you'll dream of minors who've lost their fathers, you'll dream of a displaced youth in Europe, you'll dream of them in your two-pair apartments. Mr. Gvozdenovic calculated that he could produce 5 tonnes of cucumbers in one tour. While you were selling that patriotic policy of yours, the cobayages to conquer territory, you were chasing apartments, the poor are measuring living space meters, millimetres, and your apartments are measured in aris and hectares, etc. So fear not that you will dream of me, and you will dream of young men who have lost their fathers, whose fathers have become destitute. When you're such petriots, share your apartments with them, children of fallen parents. What happened to the jeeps? Don't throw it away. Many have disappeared in Kosovo, children have lost their parents, and the Kosovo jeep is the property of a party, whose leaders have made men war and conquer territories. Someone might have saved their head in that jeep, and they, the great dukes and patriots, were driving in a blinded jeep in Belgrade. Five wars were waged, the falcon of men -- come on, brothers, we will Falcone you from the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7331	Mr. Risticevic, let's get on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7332	And they submit a proposal, that is, their red coalition partners, they submit a proposal to protect minors. Speaking of protecting minors, we need to protect them from sects. First, two of the largest sects should be banned, both red and black, and their leaders, heading towards Bachvanska.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7333	Replica, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7334	An evil like this should not be applauded. You should be sorry if you really are represented by a man like this in the Serbian Parliament. As far as pickles are concerned, he would probably give birth most to Kostunica and Djindjic's apartment. There's only three of us at my place, so, you know, he's born so much, we don't complain about all three of us. As for your relationship with the wars, shame on you. Whenever you tell someone that someone else's kids died because of him, tell them his name. That is not to say to the late Dragan Milunovic, an MP in the Serbian Parliament, the Serbian Radical, whose mother I now apologize to, he died during the war in Kosovo and Metohija. Don't tell me that, 'cause I can let you do anything, we can make a deal about anything, about everything, and with a smile, don't tell me those things. I'm just way beyond that. My sense of the earth is way above that any shit could come out here and insult me about it. Remind me as much as you like, it's a little bit of a "shush" for him, and I know what the term is for that man, but here, I said I wouldn't let you throw me out so I could talk about Vladan Batic, what's really important. What Serbia has come to, Serbia has agreed that the parliamentary majority is applauding someone who has trampled on all Serbian standards in one parliament. Because Mr. Risticevic was not allowed to go to war, because he did not want to go to war, because he would not go to any war in which Serbia is defended, you applaud, although there are many among you who went to war, and who did not think they were going to war for Slobodan Milosevic. I never went to war for Slobodan Milosevic, nor would I ever fight for any man. Whoever wanted Milosevic to fight, he was in his house that night. It was the only Milosevic war, even if we were great rivals, none of our wars count on Milosevic's wars. I count them on his defeats, but he didn't start them. I will ask you, mother's sons, now in Kosovo and Metohija, if we will go to Kostunica, Djindjic or Marjan's war. Or you will open up the troubles and say, "Here you go, take whatever you need." Well, the ones you call... I'd like to ask you to hang out in the stables. The ones you call black... Just you... It's nice until someone touches you where you need to be. Those you call the Black Coalition love the country above all else and above themselves and above their families.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7335	Mr. Ivkovic, Mr. Risticevic, I'm not giving you my word. Ivkovic is heading for the pay phone. I'm taking a half-hour break. I ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups, you can put the Rules of Procedure on the bench and report after the end of this session, because I am holding a session where one MP of the other is called Hitler, that one MP of the other is called the forest, I will simply not do it anymore. Therefore, I ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups to meet at the first floor office and see if there are any conditions for this assembly to work. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to establish a quorum so that we can continue our work. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. At the break, the vice-president of the assembly and president of the DOS and SPS parliamentary groups, held a brief meeting, a consultation. We have concluded that today's session, unfortunately not the first, but perhaps to the greatest extent of all of these, has received a flow that this congregation no longer has the right to tolerate. This applies first and foremost to the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the work relating to the use of offensive expressions to other MPs, to other MPs, who are representatives of the people and the insults spoken to them and are actually offended by those who have chosen them. It's something we decided not to tolerate anymore. If it is possible to tolerate, to some extent, a derogation from the agenda, if it is possible to tolerate, to some extent, an excess of time established for the discussion of the MP, then it cannot be allowed to allow MPs to give each other such expressions, abusive expressions, insults, disqualifications, as we have heard here today. Please respect our conclusions and help keep this session in order. Mr. Ivkovic, right on the line. Not about this, but from the previous part of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7337	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I called before interrupting the replica session for Mr. Risticevic's presentation. Given the course of our agreements with the President of the Assembly, with the vice presidents and presidents of the parliamentary groups, I won't comment on anything, I'm just going to tell myself and everyone in this room that every one of us is talking and anyone who applauds the most is talking about himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7338	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Risticevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7339	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I shall advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 96: When the MP is given the right to reply: when he is abusively expressed about the other MP, stating his last name, name, his function or the name of the parliamentary group. Mr. President gave the replica, and that the gentleman who appeared to me on the line, I never mentioned his last name, nor his function, nor his representative group. Also, the Rules of Procedure have been injured in an act relating to the advertising of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. That's when the MP who advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure was given the word over the line. So, I insist that there be a vote here on whether the Rules of Procedure has been hurt at my expense or not: and I have not offended anyone. I didn't call anyone Hitler. I just made one comparison that I think is relevant and now I'm responsible for saying that these were worse than Hitler. We lost more territory during their reign than during Hitler.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7340	I'm asking you to stop doing such an insolent performance at the National Assembly. I'll put your proposal to a vote. You've sent insults to an entire party represented here in parliament. Our opinion of this party is irrelevant to what we're talking about. But you have no right to use such expressions, nor do you have any other MPs. I'll put your proposal to a vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement by voting on the proposal that the Rules of Procedure, Rule 96, has been injured. For 24, against 70, with 28 abstentions, 29 of the 151 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has assessed that there has been no damage to the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7341	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on the protection of minors. The matter that we're talking about today is one of the most important things in my entire work so far. The period of formation of a person and the period of preservation of a healthy, both spiritual and psychophysical health of a child is the period from birth to adulthood. This period itself is critical and it hides many unknown life problems. In order for the child to get to know everything and be properly directed, great work is needed both by the director and by various institutions, bygers, kindergartens, schools, colleges, etc., even though they are adults. In this period, as the child's personality forms, it remains for the rest of its life. On this road, the child faces various obstacles, and his proper education depends on how he solves them and chooses the right path of life. Under the conditions of the severe economic crisis, the fall of standards, the reduction of the ability of the state to act in the social and educational sphere due to the embargo, i.e. The international community's kind of pressure, the aggression of NATO villains, the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija and full opening to Albania have created a drug mafia. The Albanian lobby, in which drug dealers gravitate and supply Europe with narcotics, poses the greatest danger to the present for our children. Also, the danger to our children is the presence of certain forbidden sects. Young people, as the easiest goal, but also the biggest possible devastating effect of action for society, have thus become the target of drug dealers and those who recruit for belonging to individual sects. Also, there is a growing problem of alcoholism in these areas. Children are the greatest treasure of the present and the future. You have before you the law and study of the law, which was created in a complex and difficult time, when the population policy is devastating. It takes every born creature to take the path of a healthy spirit and a healthy education, because it is because of its psychophysical characteristics sensitive to the negative influences of the environment, which is why there is a greater possibility of his psychophysical illness. It is also a period of establishing social relations and mastering their emotions, with far-reaching influences on their views, on others and on the world at all. During the juvenile period, the most successful form of child forms, you may be late if you have not properly raised him and directed him to the pores of real life in the cradle. According to the theory of industrialization, or the modern variant of modernisation, the modern family is the result of industrial development, where underage children are increasingly left alone and most of the time are exposed to various temptations. So I think that the child must focus on the work of many and trust various institutions, which will tear away the child from various illicit activities from various cultural, historical and sports games. I would like to address Mr Cedomir Jovanovic (and he has left), his approach to this very important matter is devastatingly negative for him as a man and bearer of large functions in his political group. Mr Jovanovic, the size of a minor child, which is the same for a gentleman who at 13 years of age felt a crisis (both political and economic), seems to have understood life more correctly in that lifetime than today, when poisoned by one of the worst, likely futures of banned sects, which is called DOS. Thank you for your attention. (Glass: and what is this? )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7342	Mr. Zivanovic, I give you a warning about an insult to the DOS parliamentary group. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7343	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, before us a bill on the protection of minors, which I can say that probably the motive of the promoter was in the statement of one of the people, who once ruled this country, who mentioned that a model young man, when he was 16 years old, was carrying crates, picking pears and apples, and that he had acquired a fantastic wealth, but probably because of the lack of such a comprehensive law, which regulates this area, he went astray. And that he probably became the man who smuggled and the tobacco, organized, through the system of government, as they called it. And that probably because this law didn't exist, that guy crashed 19 cars, as far as his father said was concerned, and then he stopped counting. And that's probably the model young man who smuggled weapons and did all sorts of things. And it's probably the motive for this proposal right here. What this law contains in its proposal - type formulations: not allowed and forbidden. I really don't know any laws, and I haven't had a chance to see so many formulations, with this (we have to call them) restrictive formulations. The prohibitions certainly cannot achieve the goal that is desired and certainly cannot be the basic course of this law, but we must also say that it is very important that the previous government has contributed to this phenomenon, which is taking hold of the law. This kind of serious stuff with a law like this can't be solved. Restrictions, bans, coercions, do not achieve the desired effect, which is to help minors, to protect them, but also to future holders of society, as well as to exert an increased influence on minors. Did those who have seriously destroyed the family in Serbia for the past 10, 12 or 15 years tell us now that the family should function. They threatened us that if we did not adopt this law, they would publish it in the means of information and that the public would be familiar with its contents. It would be better if the legislator of this law met with the text of parents whose children have left this country over the past 10 years, and the question is whether they will ever come back again, to meet those young people, who have become permanently disabled because of their peaceful policies, to learn about this text of those people who have beaten over the past year, two or three. And simply, this law of the Democratic Party and the MPs of the DOS certainly cannot accept, because it is obvious and evident what is to be achieved, which is that opera is wrong for the past 10, 15 years. Sinning by this bill cannot be washed, sins can only be partially washed if a group of proposings, or part of the proposings, join their president. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7344	Mr. Radosavljevic has been warned about the insults of the MP group SPS, in the same way as previous Mr. Zivanovic. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7345	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to say a few words about this law. In fact, I support all the laws and regulations that are in the service of the protection of families, young people, our citizens, not only of our country, but of the whole world. It's basically family, and domestic education is the most important thing in the family. That a young man, a child, does not go astray, must have a home education. And what needs to be done, what this country should do -- it should economically strengthen the family, so that parents can give a little more time to young children, young children and young people. Like this, parents fight for a naked life, some don't even have that, and they don't pay attention to children, to youth. Unfortunately, it's the street that takes a toll. We know, in the papers, how many young people died of drugs and everything. That is why I propose that the Serbian government find an urgent solution to improve the economic and material status of the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7346	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not disputed, and we have heard today on several occasions that MPs have pointed out that many laws have already regulated this matter, but that the proposal has decided to submit a proposal for a new law, which, according to the promoter, should regulate relations and the protection of children in one other way than has been done so so far. I can tell you from practical life that there are also the fact that both numerous laws and criminal laws, the Law on Marriage and Family and the Law on Violations and other many regulations governing the protection of youth have so far found no real application. Many college students had opportunities to get acquainted with scientists and educators, such as Makarenko or Jan Komenski, who spoke and mostly pointed out and asked for the state, school and family to be inseparable in the protection and education of children and youth. There are gaps in our society, because there is no connection between state authorities dealing with education and schools and families. It's not enough for someone to enroll a child in school without going to school for a parenting meeting once or twice a year. It is certain that we must not allow our children to be victims of drugs, alcohol, religious sects, and all that the legislator has stated in the law, except that it is contained in other legal regulations. I am surprised that at this session of the Serbian High House, the Minister of Education is not present today, because he should hear the MPs, whether the assembly majority accepts or will not accept this bill. I don't think this bill is the best, I don't think these many solutions that are offered in practice are feasible, I don't think they're the best for children and youth. I will agree with the MPs who spoke of a large number of bans on children and youth, which is imposed by this bill. But I'm not against it. In any case, children and youth deserve priority in our society and society in general must pay greater attention to them than ever. Why? Because we have found ourselves in a very difficult economic and political situation as a state. On the other hand, what most of our population has been poored. Furthermore, our children and youth are left to say so on the street. For what? Because a huge number of young people stayed on the street today, because there is no employment. There's no perspective for those who need to finish school soon either. Finally, to remind me, in any case, the Serbian government would have enough reason to prepare a better law project, unless the SPS project was accepted. I don't see why so much resistance is being given, that so many obstacles are being put before the bill, just because it came from one opposition party. I think, let them propose all parliamentary groups of laws, and it is Parliament who will evaluate those laws. There are national representatives chosen by the will of the people, who will decide and give ID and qualification whether they are acceptable or not. I am not in any way guilty of condemning the one who submits a proposal for a particular law or a specific project, compared to any social area. (President: Time. I therefore say that the SRS will in no way take such attitudes as to condemn what is proposed before the National Assembly in advance. There are MPs who will vote and it is the Assembly that will make the final decision whether or not to accept a certain bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7348	The People's Messenger Dejan Mihajlov has the word, and after him Bora Stanimorivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7349	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today we are talking about the Bill for the Protection of Juveniles and there are plenty of us in this assembly that we were minors in the late 1980s, and then our society was moving through economic and democratic reforms and the laws of this type were not needed. I can also wonder why. Because in this and then society there was a normal system of values, because the family was stable and respected, because the school was a respected institution of satisfied people, because there was a militia that cared about citizens, not just the regime. And finally, gentlemen, because there hasn't been a policy that's been going on for the last 10 years. As the promoters themselves have said, 90% of the sects have been registered in the last two years. There's never been any more crime, drug dealers and more drug addicts. We're just quoting the promoter. Why didn't the state, where there were more police than ever, stop it? Why are laws that precede their repressiveness now being proposed, and the mechanisms that existed in the existing laws were not used? Gentlemen, the repertion you're proposing right now is just a picture of the inability to do something, to remove the causes. We will, unlike you, deal with the causes of these vices and consequences and try to prevent what has happened so far. How are we gonna do that? We in the DSS believe that we should return to some traditional values, which should be adapted to the time in which we live and socialised. First of all, that's where I think of the family that when she was strong and our country was strong. When the state was strong and the family was strong, we also had a strong individual who made the state. Only strong and rich, satisfied individuals can make one happy state. We haven't been there all these years. The society we seek is a society where children respect their parents. So far, that's not the case, it's the result of one of the nadal system values. We need a school that will train and educate in which there will be no first lessons about alcohol, drugs, tobacco, and where to learn what needs to be taught at school. We need a change in the entire system of values that's been established here for years, through the media, through Pink, Palma, Kosava and others, and that's gone back decades to our youth, which is exactly what we're now worried about and that we're all trying to make her feel better. Gentlemen, in the end, I would only like to ask one question to the legislator of this law, which is whether this law was written by those FONAS members who spent over the last 10 years in universities in France, England and America, and whether this law was written by those who had spent the bombing and suffering of this people in hotels in Budapest, Moscow and Athens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7350	The People's MP Bora Stanimirovic has the word, followed by the MP Vukosav Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7351	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the Honorable Minister, I could understand that the Law on Small and Medium Enterprises, probably for principled reasons, and we can certainly accept the argument given by the Government, that a new law on privatisation and transition is being prepared, that this is your vision of privatisation, so somehow it can be understood. However, and the Priory to refuse a law on the protection of minors, which practically does not exist, although some of these are in some parts of certain laws, I don't think there's any excuse for that. If a new law is to be passed, we will certainly, since the Government has already given its opinion on this law, accept, although it is the government's law, that is, most of it, because it is precisely one important substance, about young people, and at the moment when the need for such a law is increased daily, starting with the fact that even in primary and secondary schools, young people are increasingly using drugs, cigarettes, and everything else that affects many other pathological phenomena that follow. That's one of the reasons why we've just proposed a law like this today, even though some are complaining about why it hasn't happened before, which is why we haven't proposed such a law before. There hasn't even been a need 10 years ago, so maybe the last 10 years. You know that drugs may have been used only in larger centres, and today drugs are used in all towns of Serbia, smaller towns and smaller settlements. Not to talk about alcohol, etc. Therefore, there are many more reasons, and it is certain that even the current government will not be able to pass all the laws at once, because we have witnessed that we have changed some laws so far, we have abolished some laws, we have made changes, and we have almost no comprehensive law has been passed. Therefore, it does not seem to be the main reason. I think it may be principled, but you know there are countries in the world where the laws of the opposition are accepted. We'll probably get used to it later, too. Secondly, I think that this situation, which is present today, has been affected by many factors. Surely there is justification for the allegations we heard today, or yesterday, but three basic educational factors, starting with various circumstances, have failed. It's a family, a school and a social environment. That's exactly the order we said. Why the family? The family is in a specific situation. Someone said yesterday, I agree that parents don't have enough time because of the difficult material situation, that they have to work during working hours, work after hours, and that they don't have time to work with children. That's for sure. They didn't mention that other category of people who have a lot of money and in that money race they have very little time for their children and think it's enough to just give them money and they'll finish the job. There are exactly the problems that arise. So, the beginning is in the family first, and then later in these other environments. Parents don't know their children very much. Today, when you tell your parents that his child is using drugs, it's gonna be hard to accept that truth, they're actually gonna think it's not true. That's the way it is. Practically, children seem to be cloned today, because all children behave the same. Ask a 14-year-old, whoever you want, what's the best movie for him, what's the best shoe brand, what's the best music? They'll tell you the same thing, the exact same thing. I think that's what's worrying. It is certainly influenced by many other circumstances, but the important thing is that as parents, we pay very little attention to children, that this trust is gone, and the emotions that are being built, especially the trust that children do not have. We stay with the kids for a little while, and that's why all this happened, and less because of what we've been instructed to do. (President: Time. The school is in a special situation today. The school is burdened with many teaching programs, when it pays more attention to educational work and less education, although these two things cannot be separated. But it's possible with us. Furthermore, it is precisely that the school today is in a very difficult material situation, as it was 10 years ago, and 40 years ago, and today, and we don't even know if the situation is going to improve, and surely in such a situation, they have very little time to pay more attention to children and to these educational work, above all. I'm sorry I can't say some data that's very important, to see how much alcohol, cigarettes and drugs are being used today, based on one of the research that's been done. But since the time is up, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7352	The word has a National MP Vukosav Tomašević, followed by Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7353	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, when I received in the assembly material a proposal for this law on the protection of minors, I was overwhelmed by the feeling of mild nausea, for the reason that this bill suggests that political group that has done everything for the past decade to just minors and our reputation in every way to humiliate, humiliate, drive out of this country, etc. Despite my awareness that this is a demagogue daily-political move, I have read this bill very carefully, among other things, because I am the father of three underage children, so for this reason I care that my children, and all the children in this country, have adequate treatment, have adequate protection, grow up and develop as normal personalities, become normal and healthy people and useful members of this society tomorrow. But by reading that law I tried to make some notes, to see what was wrong with this law, so when I first saw a lot of things, that there were a lot of holes in this law, I gave up. I simply think that the bill is such that it is not good and that it cannot be improved through any amendments, but that simply this area must be processed in another way, not one law, but one system of measures that this society must take to get our youth on the right track. This law is bad, that's already said, but I'll do it again, first of all because it's repressive. He doesn't need to be particularly expert in sociology and pedagogy, so knowing that at that age it's not good to go through repression, that it's much better to go through preventive measures. The other thing, this law is incomplete, I'd say, double incomplete. On the one hand, he is some register, some set or some small register of those legal solutions in this area, which already exist, scattered into several laws. On the other hand, I don't think there are any new deviating and negative phenomena that have been reported in our society in recent years, which concern the protection of minors and young people, but are neither treated or properly, through other legislation, resolved. These are the reasons why you don't have to support this law. I mean, the days to this plan need to be passed by more than one law. So, as I said, one whole system of measures to protect young people and minors from all those phenomena we talked about. First of all, it is necessary to establish the role of family and school, as inevitable factors in socializing personality, and this should not be specifically discussed. Secondly, I think that the existing legislation should be complemented, because there have simply been some new deviating phenomena, which are newer dates compared to those solutions that already exist in existing laws. I'm just gonna tax them. For example, there is a law on gambling, but there have been some new variations of dice, sports bookies and some other forms, where our children squat from morning till tomorrow. There are provisions of the Criminal Law that stimulate prostitution, but in the meantime, some new types of prostitution, business escorts, I'm not legally educated enough, something that isn't covered by existing legislation, or, for example, there's a law on the ban on advertising tobacco, alcohol, etc., and it's evident that we're passing this kind of propaganda. Marketing experts call it a brand. We forbid our child to go buy a parent a cigarette or a bottle of beer. I'm a smoker, but I didn't start smoking by opening a bottle of beer or wine between the house and the house, but I'm pretty sure it's a big challenge for all those who are in puberty if in the prime time of state television after cartoons and children's shows, there's three times a commercial that reads -- the taste of freedom, which advertises tobacco. Imagine when something like that is presented to someone who is in the process of meeting a person. I also think, and I will try to be brief, that there should be some new laws on pedophile, on religion and religious communities, on sects, on education and university, on sports, where there is a need to see the importance of amateur sports and physical culture, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to act repressively towards vandalism at sports stadiums, and I especially think it is necessary to pass the law on ham and spine, because over the past ten years, and the predecessors have already spoken of it, so reduced that we simply have one system of values in which our youngsters, all these adolescents and others, are wrongly raised.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7354	The word has a folk MP Milan Radulovic, followed by Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7355	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if by any chance today on the agenda were the question of whether we should love and protect our children and take care of them, we would certainly have reached full agreement on this issue. We would also reach full agreement on the question of who has the right and the duty to do so. Everyone, of course, has both the right and the duty to do so. But we don't discuss it. We are discussing a law that tries to translate this very sensitive problem into certain legal norms. I am grateful and welcome the Socialist Party of Serbia's initiative to discuss this topic. I believe, since I belong to the parliamentary majority, that most of them have larger duties, which is why I would like to send the SPS deputies a message that they should not take full heart if one of our MPs, in the polemic heat, to provoke them that we are against this law because it is proposed by the SPS, answers - yes, but you have no right to propose this law. You have, of course, the right to propose this law, you have the right as followers of an old party, as followers of Svetozar Markovic. You have the right to remain loyal to your ideology, to your tradition, to your economic doctrine, which you proposed two days ago, you have the right to remain loyal to your pedagogical principles that you present to us by this law. Nothing, therefore, is disputed about the Democratic Party of Serbia. I don't think we're quite fair to you when we claim that the problem you're trying to regulate by this law is the consequence of your ten-year rule. It's not -- and in countries where you haven't ruled, and in most cases you haven't, these problems are mentioned in this bill, of course, there are: in all countries there are these problems. However, it is not entirely correct on your part if you claim that your contribution to these phenomena was not any. I think it's clear that in the last ten years a perverse and perverse value system has been created in which wealth and waste of wealth has been worth a lot and honest work and honesty nothing. It was not a question of how wealth comes, but whether or not you have it, and whether you are in the demonstration of that wealth less or more cultivated or favored by the spine. Kitch, the wealth demonstration was at a very high price. But if the chairman hadn't warned me -- and that, I mean, with the right to stick to the subject -- I'm moving on to this law of yours. So we agreed that this issue is necessary to regulate legally. We also agreed that the first and the main way to solve these and these problems is to build a positive, healthy spiritual and valuable system - based, of course, on Serbian tradition and on the cultural tradition of other peoples living in this country. Nothing here, therefore, is disputed. However, such a value system will not basically undo the need to pass a law similar to that proposed by you, and where the value system is solid, there are very serious problems and there are restrictive laws. The restrictive law you're proposing is not bad because it's restrictive, but for three reasons. First, because it's incomplete. Secondly, because you haven't, or it's just my impression, consulted existing laws that treat this issue. Thirdly, as your colleague Janjic has shown nicely, you have not done the categorization of criminal acts, i.e. crimes, and according to their categorization you have also determined the level of punishment. Fourthly, and it seems basic to me, you have come to this law in a completely absurd position. You're proposing a law on the protection of minors, and in fact you're proposing a reduction of the penalties provided for certain crimes. You criminal acts of drug dealing are translated into a felony. It's not possible to treat arms trafficking and drug dealing as a violation procedure. It's a felony. So, since you have come to a truly absurd position -- however skillfully you sophisms have managed to answer these questions -- I think it would be good for you to withdraw this good bill of yours, to bring it into line with existing laws, to complete it, to consult other people, to respect what you have heard today, to offer us again a more complete, better and perfect law, which we will gladly consider and probably adopt, if it is good.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7356	The word has a folk MP Branislav Blazic, followed by MP Igor Soldatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7357	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if our general consciousness is the proper depth of the crisis we are in is one of the most important issues and when we're discussing such a serious problem, I think maybe the most significant problem society faces today, I don't think it's, even think that after these discussions, some of which I've heard, it's more retrograde and false than it is right now. There have been attempts here to in some way, by political methods, show one social evil in office only for some time in the last few years. I don't want to amnestize the legislators for this time, the time of evil and torment and all that we've been through, but I think if that's the case, we can't find an excuse for the richWest, for this democratically developed, human West, where this very social evil is the most represented. If that were the case, and if one economic crisis conditioned an increase in the use of drugs, alcohol, cigarettes, that diseases like AIDS appear, etc., then probably there would be no such thing in the West at all. It would only be characteristic of those countries that are in economic crisis. So I think, when we are discussing a problem like this, which is primarily a psychophysical, and also a health threat and a threatened future of our people, we must consider that it is a multidisciplinary problem and you will not be angry, but I want to say that this assembly is not competent enough, nor with sufficient knowledge can debate it, absolutely adequate and make the right conclusions. I think this is a problem that can't be solved by one law, but it's one problem that needs to be put in place and looked at all the aspects of the situation in which the country is located, and what is waiting for us in the future. In the future, we have a severe blow, what carries the transition, what brings the influence of the West, what we get from that America, and all the evil we can get from, because all the evil in this world that's going on, and the drugs, the alcohol, and the cigarettes, and the sects, and all the violence and the mafia, it all started out of America, no matter how much you can be mad at me, but that's a fact. Therefore, we should consider what awaits us and what we will experience from that America further in some process of democratisation, with the possibilities, these material and educated, and the professional ones that we have, and so we must create the overall social action and the fight against that evil that awaits us. We must all have our share of responsibility, our part of some invested work, of knowledge, of engagement, to contribute to the protection of those future generations from such black things and the hunches that can come, if it bursts to those limits, reckless ones, that we have. However, as this situation is now being resolved, here in this society. We have a situation that, for example, we have abolished the Ministry of Youth and Sports, we have abolished the Ministry of Ecology, which is certainly something that, in any case, can contribute to positive flows when it comes to healthy life and nature. On the other hand, we have put as Minister of Education Gaš Knezevic, who sees white mice, who is an untreated alcoholic and who is now supposed to be educationally acting on youth and students not to use alcohol in schools. These are some absurd and completely upside-down things, because yet this personal example, and something that should represent a personal example, might have to be put first. That's why I want to say, if we really want to restore these true values, if we want to restore the Serbian family, if we want to return to tradition and culture, if we want to improve this society, we have to forget and stay away from these stories, to get some half-written and half-drunk MPs out here who are going to insult them in all ways, or to give some story that one third of the minors have gone away for the last ten years. I'm telling you, I don't want to amnestize the motionary at all, I don't think this law as such makes any sense, because if it's not followed by a general social order, then it's not going to do any good, and someone says that we have a lot of laws that are similar, that sort of thing, and then there's no need for this kind of law. But if we already have those laws that regulate it, and the situation is getting worse, then it's not about the law. We can pass the laws we want, and if we don't know how we're going to implement it here in the field, if there's no responsibility for how they're going to implement it, then the results will be wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7358	The word has a People's MP Igor Soldatovic, and the next one registered for the discussion is Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7359	Dear colleagues, in the last two days that we are discussing the law on the protection of minors, a lot of evaluations and a lot of different courts have been given, a lot of different opinions have been expressed. In principle, they are all such that it comes to the conclusion that the National Assembly is expressing its concern, that it wants to help, that it wants to change something. It's about how young people use drugs, how they use alcohol, how they smoke, how they have a lot of problems, and how their future is absolutely uncertain, given that they have all these traits that exist. But a very small number of you or we remembered to say that it was actually a brave generation that survived everything, that they were great children, given what we were, what you were. For the last 10 years, young people have been through a lot of things and whatever they are, they're great. What kind of man are you? What kind of man were we? So that I don't fit in is one gray thing about this discussion, I'm going to try to explain my exposure to some of the facts that UNICEF was doing. Let's assume that these facts are objective and that's really true. In a survey that has a total of 200 pages, but I don't know that it's been done in Serbia for the past 10 years, and the title says "Brave new generation", it processes the population for up to 24 years, and defines the youth as the part of the society that for the first time finds its job, which separates itself from its former families, from its parents and builds its own family. In Serbia, the UNICEFU definition must be flexible because of the general crisis in society, because of wars, because of the bombing, because of the huge number of refugees that are in the community and that we have in society, and they in this sense extend that analysis to 30 years. So 30 years is a limit when young people in Serbia are expected to become adult in the right sense of that word, to start their families. As for the facts relating to our community, I will repeat once again what has happened to us for the last 10 years: 1991 - the beginning of the war in Croatia; 1992 - the beginning of the war in Bosnia; 1992 - the final fall of the SFRY; 1992 - the economic sanctions by the UN; 1992 and 1993 - inflation that destroyed the Serbian family, in the right sense of that word, huge crime at all levels in society; 1995 - an exodus from Krajina; 1999 - the bombing, as a consequence of NATO aggression that took place in Serbia, again refugees from Kosovo. In Serbia today, 200,000 people under the age of 24, 30,000 who have completed colleges in the last 10 years have left Serbia. At the same time, crime - in 1998: on 100,000 young people in the Czech Republic - 4,000 young people in conflict with the law; on 100,000 young people in Slovenia - 5,500 young people in conflict with the law; Macedonia - at 100,000 - 4,500; Bulgaria - at 100,000 - 4,500. Belarus - to 100,000 - 1,000; Russia - to 100,000 - 2,200; Serbia - to 100,000 - 900. In all, in Serbia at 100,000, 900 young people are in conflict with the law. At the same time, the employment rate - 1998 - Czech Republic, youth 8% and the total population 4% unemployed; Romania, youth 15%, all 7%; Georgia, youth 25%, all 15%; Bulgaria, youth 30%, all 14%; Yugoslavia, youth 61%, all 16%. If someone wants to write laws, if someone wants to regulate the youth issue, they must first say that the youth in Serbia has survived a lot. That's what he has to say first. Then he has to do an analysis of the current situation, see what kind of youth it is, see what kind of parallel practice it is; say he wants that problem done in 10 years. You can't get one law, one social matter, what kind of youth care, solve it. It is a project of state importance brought to five years, brought to 10 years and set a goal. Young people in Serbia in 10 years will look like this and this problem cannot be solved by young people and their parents being punished for being bad. When it's our fault, when it's your fault, because they're bad, what you expect. There's no job for young people. For young people, if you don't want them to stay on the street long, if you don't want them to use drugs, if you don't want them to use alcohol, get them a job. Get them a job. Create conditions for them to create their family, to be normal people in normal society. Not that you're punishing them. That's not how it works. Someone said this law was preventive. What's preventive about that? These are sanctions. It's preventative - work. It's preventive - a normal state. It's preventative - peace. It's preventive, and that's the law we need to pass. That's how we have to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7360	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7361	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, statistics are usually a collection of accurate or incorrect data and it depends on the quantity of knowledge of the person presenting it. Ladies and gentlemen, we Serbian radicals are taking part in this proposal not because this proposal is good or that it is as bad as the Serbian government claims, but as the topic under discussion deserves attention. These are real problems. These are the problems facing Serbia. These are the problems that we, who are parents, who have children, face daily. To tell history and the causes of these problems can only be those who are aware of the fact that these problems are dependent on economic, social or political situations. There is one rule that they are manifesting: the growth of the economic crisis results in an increase in alcohol consumption or use, but something Serbia is facing at the moment is unexplainable. There's no such thing as theoretically. The growth of the economic crisis has increased the number of drug users and the amount of narcotics has increased, especially in Serbia, and this is strange because with the growth of economic standards and wealth growth and drug abuse. That's where we have to seriously think. The problem cannot be solved by the minister coming out and saying - there are already legal provisions and the problem is being solved in a preventive manner. You know, if there's something that's illogical, something that's the exception to some rules, then it's got to be called "emergency." So, something is being challenged artificially, and the ministry has to react. Anyway, there's a part of the preventive action. As we all know education, and as the minister says we are also going to the education of educators. But it is not negligible in all of this or the role of individuals. How will the education be supported or implemented by the leader of a political party, which is part of the DOS, which uses every opportunity in public appearances to promote drug use. He even claims he enjoyed them himself and goes so far, imagine what kind of thinking it is, to pull the exact line of easy and heavy drugs. He claims -- they're not dangerous easy drugs, they're dangerous heavy drugs. No one in the world has ever been able to make a line and a difference in the danger of using easy or heavy drugs. - Say your name, name. His name is, these from the Vojvodina Coalition, a former member, and now he's head of the Social Democrats, Nenad Canak. Everyone who listened to radio show Radio 021, where he was the editor, the manager, and I chose the topic, spoke on the subject. Clearly, as a political figure, and ultimately as a public figure, he had a negative impact. We are wondering, we, the Serbian radicals, how this education, that prevention will be conducted or supported by the current minister of education or education. How? It's a personal case. It'll be negative. There will be consequences. We're wondering how it's going to work preventively when it comes to the arms trade of the justice minister, who was stolen from the car by a hekler. Who else is normal...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7362	Mr. Mircic, I'm warning you it's not on the agenda. I give you my first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7363	It's all on the agenda. The government is in charge of implementing the control program for all of these anomalies that we are facing...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7364	But it's not on the agenda. I warned you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7365	You know, Mr. President, I don't want to point out, but I'm the father of three underage children myself. I wouldn't want to take responsibility tomorrow for not warning some of the government's actors on time. However, if I had known, to tell you the truth, who is their teacher and who teaches them all at school, I wouldn't have enrolled them at any cost. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the question is, how effective are the existing laws. You government officials claim that this is all embedded in previous, existing laws. Do you know, gentlemen, that the official authorities of the MUP must not enter the school yard. They can't, because the law won't let them. How will the official authorities of the MUP prevent drug dealing at school if they can't get into school. Except in cases where they have an exact tip, an announcement, that they enter that school, and they are obliged to catch the culprit. Gentlemen cannot discuss this subject and defend themselves with the rapper methods of Zoran Djindjic, along with the mummique and movement of hands, the mimic of the face. That defense is falling into the water.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7366	The word is by MP Predrag Mijailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7367	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law on the protection of minors. This law applies to persons 12 to 18 years of age. It's about 18 years old. Those who have proposed this law, and the rest of us who need to discuss it and possibly adopt it, we need to know that these are people in a period called adolescence or puberty. In this period, children experience physical and psychological changes caused by changes in endocrinological status in the body of these children. Now, this young person, suddenly from a young age, comes into adulthood. It's a period when young people are neither children nor adults anymore. In that period, normally, with this endocrinological status, there is a change of interest in children in all spheres of life, and that literally means that they come into a new world. From one child's world they go to the world of the elderly. That's what we all need to know. These children, during that period of puberty, or adolescence, do not take any orders. That's where their ego's getting stronger. They don't allow any suggestive and legal repression. That's why, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is what we're starting to play with this group. How? We want to introduce repressive laws and bans. Instead of dealing with the consequences, and not with the cause, we need to ask ourselves where those 12 years are, to prepare those children for that period. Preparation is done first in the family. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what have we done in these 50 years and 10 years? We broke up the Serbian family. We must return all the moral values we had before to the Serbian family. We will not, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, have problems with the sect if we take the time of Laza Lazarevic, when the son went with his father for the first time in the morning. When children go to church, not to be like the communists say, stick to the button child, because here comes pop, jinx. We must simply pass a law of faith, a law of education, a law of information, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. What did the promoters think of? They say -- you know, most parents will accept this. But the kids won't. There will be a family conflict, and it is known that older people are usually voters, certain groups, and children are looking back into perspective. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we must, overall, look at this problem and solve it. I think the government has to do it all. There are a lot of good laws, but the government has to propose it itself, and that is why I, as an MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia, or DOS, will not vote for this law. I'm happy to vote for the laws that will solve this whole problem. So a package of system laws should also be brought before this assembly to seriously put a problem, not to extract one population, which is most sensitive in all respects, more sensitive than children, from the first year of life, from babies to twelve, at that psychological moment, and that is why we need to do it as soon as possible. If something in the old laws isn't right, let's change it. That's my recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7368	The People's Messenger, Mihajlo Jagodic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7369	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law on the protection of minors, a very complex law and very difficult to analyze, and in general, for understanding. Anyway, I can say that as a doctor, a neuropsychiatrist, who deals with the mental health of minors, and I'm trying to help them during this period, which my predecessor called a crisis period. It's really one crisis period and it starts around the age of sixteen, and that's one time it's called "no one's time". So these kids actually fly and they don't know exactly where they are. About the 17th year comes when a child enters an early adult age. The period is even more critical for young people, who are in that period. So we have to approach them with less repression, and with some kind of reward and reward, because every behavior is modified by reward and punishment: one dose of reward, one dose of punishment. So it's got to be nuanced, so we can adapt our young people's behavior, get in the right position, be real people. Surely many causes indicate that it is behavioral illnesses. Behavioral illness is alcoholism, and drug abuse, and smoking. The behavior is different. Everyone changed their behavior, changed their behavior, and instead of their daily and evening dates, they started going out deep into the night. Do they run because they want to be out of sight of their parents and their teachers, or do they run for other reasons? I'm sure we can't handle it legally, because the reprisals of interruptions and some sanctions, that the owners of the cafe, or some discotheques, will not bear fruit, because they will give birth to spite and the children will gather in the streets, or in the apartments. They'll be even more out of our sight. So we have to approach them another way. Parents have changed their behavior, too. Now they don't care the same way about their kids anymore, they say -- well, my neighbors let their kids go deep into the night, and my friends let their kids go deep into the night, so I guess nothing's gonna happen to my kids either. And so, everyone uniformly observes this kind of negative phenomenon and changes their behavior. Both teachers and teachers have changed their behavior. They no longer care about what happens to children outside school, but they narrow their interest in the part where only the child's stay at school is. And doctors, my colleagues have changed in behavior. Now, in an era of specialization and narrow specialists, less and less people, doctors, care for adolescents and those very people "not in whose country", and young ones, each one cares for one part, or its own specialization. So the people of my profession don't all care about this population, they have some target groups, where they care and where their, conditionally speaking, diseases they treat. Surely the health care has tried to take a step by developing developmental counselling centres, and these developmental counselling centres are actually a set of different experts, who want to help these young people. Developmental counselling centres may also have to be potentiated by law, to narrow down exactly how it will operate, and to help them in all ways, to be more effective. Surely the state cannot properly modulate this system of rewards and penalties, which is necessary during this delicate period. Surely, in future law, which is passed, we need to emulate and stimulate positive behavior in young people, not sublime some bad behavior that we don't want. The solution is in the education of educators, i.e. to spread a network of people who know this problem, and that, on the other hand, these people are experts, to attract the attention and trust of these young people, because there is no way we can communicate without trust in young people at this time. If there's no trust, then it's born int, or something that causes it, the opposite of behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7370	The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7371	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an MP, as a lawyer, I propose that the motionor withdraw this legislative proposal, because I believe that such a legal proposal is not in agreement with the legal system that currently exists in our country. Such a legislative proposal, if adopted and started to live as a law, would bring chaos into legal regulation, which regulates precisely all these social relations through other regulations and through other laws. I support all those speakers, all the MPs, who pointed out and tried to convince you that this social relationship, that these social problems are already regulated by many other legal projects, or laws already in force, by positive legislation. It has been pointed out many times by the promoters that the existing legislation is unarranged, unclear and that it leaves the possibility of legal cavities, so that using these legal cavitys a certain population can deal with criminal acts aimed at the destruction of our youth, our youth, and thus have far-reaching consequences for this most sensitive population of our society. Many times this speaker has been told that existing regulations, such as the Criminal Law of Yugoslavia, the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, many rules on the transport of cigarettes, tobacco, intoxicating drugs or funds that have a certain fact on the psyche, particularly young people, have not regulated and that such a legal project requires regulation of this matter. I also agree with those speakers, who say this is only about repressive measures, which cannot cure the cause of this phenomenon that has affected all the countries of the modern world, and so is our country. The causes of this kind of legal project cannot be solved. Our society is obliged, by raising standards, by hiring youth, by preventing, education and education, primarily within the family, and then by raising the basic, secondary, and even the highest education, to educate our citizens, our young people, not to commit themselves to such vices, because repressive measures cannot prevent it. The restriction on the protection of only minors will not yield results. Will that mean that after 18 years, young people get first started, try everything that this law forbids. I believe that social improvement, improving standards, improving the system of education and education can be done much more than this law provides. This law has derivated many regulations that, in a much stricter and more complex way, prescribe illegal behaviour, and in terms of production, change, offer, allow for the use of intoxicating drugs, both light and heavy. The law does not distinguish between easy and heavy intoxicating drugs. For such illegal acts, illegal acts are prescribed only criminal penalties, there is no graduation of the severity of harming the protection goods, no organ is prescribed and the procedure in which these fines will be pronounced. In any case, taking responsibility to a level of criminal liability is absolutely neither celery nor acceptable. I think it's only one project here, that it's a political pamphlet that's just being transformed into a parazacular regulation and a proposal, otherwise, it's aimed at only one political promotion. There is no way to solve any social problems that burden our youngest population. It is the nomenclature of offences and the prohibitions provided for in this law that indicates it. This law does not provide, for example, for trafficking in white slaves, abuse of children for political purposes, sexual abuse of children, incestual behavior, and all that in the worst possible way endangers the psycho-physical health of children and their social status. On the other hand, the quality of the promoter and its ability to propose such a law in the earlier period suggests that it is only one political motive, that only a political motive is behind such a proposal. The question arises, why is the party proposing this is not at the time when the government proposed a law like this. There's a question of how... (From O.R.: Time. (President: Thank you very much, the time. )......................................................................................................... The party that participated in the government controlled drug trafficking when in the vaults of the DB, which were then used, was 600 kilograms of heroin intended for sale and to finance some illegal activities. The question arises, which is why the party has not responded to individuals who have publicly used weapons at political gatherings, the issue is why the party has not responded to the organisation and the invitation to recruit young people on armed rebellion, during the arrest of Slobodan Milosevic. That's why I don't think this problem can be solved by a law like this. I believe that the aim of this law is to promote and remove responsibility for all the consequences that have arisen in society. I believe that this matter can be regulated by one law on the protection of society against disease of addiction, which will regulate both prevention and repression, that special hospitals for the protection of disease of addiction will be provided, and, of course, by improving the education and education system at the general level.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7372	Replica, Mr. Ivkovic, and then Vladimir Dobrosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7373	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, I think all MPs could have recognized in the words of the predecessor the tendency to define the categories of political pamphlet and responsibility in the earlier period of these 37 MPs that were not in the Assembly and passed the same law. However, the predecessor to this speaker accidentally showed what is for him and his party of states. He said when the political party held heroin in the vaults, it means that it essentially identified the political party's activity and the activities of the DB service, which is very possible in these days that it is true. At that time, DB was doing its job, and it must be known that DB was taking all the heroin and any drugs they destroyed, and it's known that exactly that the affair that was blown up in the paper was then like a blow-up balloon, because it was found out who that drug was taken from and it was known that it was in the vault and it was known that it was moved at the time of the bombing into the vault of a corresponding bank and there were two keys to that vault. However, when a man goes into political reckonings, apparently some believe that in these political accounts they can also do certain things without certain restrictions, which the speaker should still have. So, I think we've cleared up as far as we're concerned. We proposed that law as soon as we could. The activities of the service, such as the judiciary, such as public security, DB, we really didn't identify it with the party's activities. The Bill on the Protection of Juveniles, however, is constantly being implemented, because I have to ask all speakers once for this speaker, and before they come out to read the law anyway, a bill on the protection of minors. I make it clear and loud that the only truth is that there are no repressive measures for minors in this law. In this law, there are only repressive measures for those who cite minors also to the evil called drug abuse, and to the evil called alcoholism and to the worst evil that completely destroys the psycho-physical structure of young people, which is to recruit into sects. This law was written by lawyers who respect the position of the Association of Lawyers, that in connection with guilt everything must be in Criminal Law. That's why the law covers only criminal proceedings and provides fines from 10,000 dinars to 200,000 dinars and up to 30 days in prison, but not for minors. No repression about them, say I'm lying if I'm not telling the truth. (President: Time. ) But only for those who, out of their profitable activities or because of the deviance of their mind, who has already gone into ephemeral, are recruiting minors from this story. When this law was passed, there is a basis for the Minister of Justice Batic to be asked to enter into the Criminal Law of Serbia these concepts from here with far worse sentences, for much worse situations, such as the notion of mental manipulation, which is punishable in France from 3 to 5 years in prison and punishment for up to 800,000 French francs. So don't say what's not true. There is no repression for minors and it is not true that it is past the Constitution, and counterpart Zoran Nikolic has told you all this. Those of you who prepared the discussion yesterday, please change.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7374	The People's Messenger Vladimir Dobrosavljevic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7375	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Madam Minister, the first and basic problem with this law, or the bill of law, lies in the fact that in itself, even if there are no stories which these two days carry out in the talks in parliament, contain those provisions already contained in the provisions of the Criminal Law. The problem of this law, even if it solves all these problems itself, lies in the fact that it does not solve anything as it is. He wouldn't solve anything for one simple reason, because the bill is nothing but a diagnosis of an anemic society, a society in which we live a long period of time. Someone's gonna say 10 years, 13 years or 55 years. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. The fact is, we lived in a time that was deeply criminalized. That crime didn't occur, ladies and gentlemen, after the NATO bombing, after the sanctions. We started living in a criminalized society a long time ago. Look at only one piece of information that the Serbian MUP has brought out in time, when cocaine appeared in large quantities on the Belgrade market, and between 1989 and 1992. We, ladies and gentlemen, didn't have any sanctions at the time, just to remind you. There are some things we shouldn't forget when we're talking about all this. So not only is it mentioned here that this would be a kind of restrictive law. The fact that we also need to know very well is that in this way, sanctions or any legal solution, we will not help the healing of our society or the education of minors or the education of educators, as mentioned here many times. Healed societies must go a completely different way, primarily by re-establishing and restoring authority in the country itself and into the institution of this state. Without the return of authority, without the return of a model that can be seen by minors and based on them to form their personalities, there is no cure. It can't be an authority if the supreme representative body of our people is what it is today. We are the ones who start things: the government of Serbia, the police, the judiciary, the prosecution. Then we can talk. We can't talk about the return of authority, and we had 10 years of mentioned television, we had models for young people as criminals, we had folk singers, we had different occults and white mags. Are those models? Could the young ones have formed even better than how they formed with such a social model that they served? Yeah, directly served. One more thing I'd like to mention in this presentation, I personally don't belong to the Apolegates of the West or the Western political systems. But I accept one pragmatic fact that so far there are no better ones. When we talk about that pornography, that drug trafficking came from the West, we need to know another thing -- and this West drug came from a completely different cultural and civilization circle, above all from that eastern one. In the east, ladies and gentlemen, the largest centers of production and heroin and opium and other intoxicating narcotics. The West, which is not amnesty of all that, of course with its diseases, the social ones, I'm talking about, has its own problems. We must not forget one basic fact - nothing came from itself, everything has its previous roots somewhere. In the end, I'd like to mention one more thing. When you talk about sects, I'll remind you, the sect implies apostates of true faith. I would ask you another question - then why do these true churches, real confesions, or monotheistic religions, and you all know what they are - Orthodox Christianity, Roman Catholic Christianity and Sunni Islam of the Hafit order, which most Muslims in Serbia are practicing - so I have to ask you why they are not regulated by law as recognized monotheistic religions? No, of course, you can't fight the sect for any moment, and you can't have or follow the true faith. That's why this law isn't good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7376	The People's Messenger Ljubisa Maravić has the word, and then the People's Messenger, Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7377	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, as an MP for this assembly living in Kosovo and Metohija, I consider it necessary to point to some specificities concerning these issues, as well as the area of Kosovo and Metohija, where there is currently an increase in the emergence of drug abuse, the emergence of prostitution, as well as the emergence of enhanced activities of religious sects. However, regardless of the environment in which we live and all these negative things appear, I think that so far young people have shown and proved themselves to be true heroes. Also, the fact is that there is present and a kind of trinity in Cosmet. In addition to our authorities in the Serb area, UNMIK authorities and the so-called organs are also present. Ship's paratroopers. I'm glad I heard the data here today from one of our colleagues, who are talking about comparative data on minors in other countries, and what is this relationship with us. That's why I have to say, as an SPS MP, and I think I share your opinion, that we all feel that Serbia, regardless of all the difficult times and crisis that we have found ourselves in and where we are, has a wonderful, smart and patriotic youth. The proposed law creates conditions to allow the state to act more effectively in order to stop growth, and later reduce narcotics, alcoholism and the functioning of sects in Serbia's premises. Young people, as the easiest goal, have become targets of drug dealers and those who recruit for the belonging of certain religious sects. At the same time, the impact of alcoholism on our families, especially on young people, has been neglected recently. A key result is achieved by completely psychophysical destruction of individuals, as well as by its addiction to drugs, alcohol, or belonging to a religious sect. A man as a living being, as a man, should be protected and protected there and where necessary. A man is protected even after a proper measure of sanctions has been imposed on him, for this is a deterrent from further action of the misdemeanor, i.e. It goes back to the rules of conduct and norms are socially acceptable. In the children of minors, protection begins from the first day of birth to the adult life. Protection against this population is seen through proper treatment, care, care, education, one word, complete care for the child. This concern begins, first of all, in a parenting home, and then the circle is concentrated on preschool institutions, kindergartens, schools, libraries, museums and other institutions and institutions where a minor moves. One such complex institution is not able to always actively control, or we are not able to get all these linkages that affect the development of minors by our actions to reconcile in all these opposites. Then what happens? The consequences are reflected in the child, his personality, and the child needs help at the same time, and by helping him, we are practically protecting him. The whole mosaic facility needs to reconsider itself and its share of responsibility. In this detachment, the ball of responsibility is re-emerged from the family in which the minor lives. Official institutions, which first enter the family, are centres for social work, as a guardianship body, or family - legal protection. Social work centres are the most responsible institutions, because they are the most professional and skilled in protecting the family, or minors in it, and it is often in practice that in the divorce of marriages, alcoholism, fornications and others, with the help of the social work centre should be immediately involved, i.e. it should act immediately. A minor needs to be helped and must be protected urgently. In any case, there is an accurate legal process on the protection of minors, and in practice, we believe that there are certain shortcomings in the law and therefore I believe that a new comprehensive law should be passed. (President: Time. ) I believe that social work centres, in the part of family and legal protection, should have more legal powers to protect minors. Dear fellow MPs, I also support the idea put forward in the Bill on the establishment of a National Youth Protection Council to protect minors from jeopardising their psychophysical health in development, as well as to deal with all the things listed in the bill. The National Youth Protection Council would therefore educate the Serbian government, which regulates the composition, organisation and conditions and other issues of importance for the work of the council. That is why I have a vague decision by the Serbian government to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7378	The word has a minister, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7379	I have to say, unfortunately, you're going to let me, I've tried hard in previous sessions not to be personal and I don't share my personal courts, I have to say that I think we'd have done a lot more on the subject of the protection of minors that we've spent today on some of the protection programs, that all this time we've spent discussing this subject, and in fact by discussing many other topics, we've left it on TV to talk about drugs and the impact of drugs, especially what's the greatest number of these crimes really solved in a criminal procedure, and for me personally, and I think it would be much more important for many of you to spend that time with our children or at least part of that time, and that we could have protected them in that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7380	The People's Messenger Aleksandar Vukic has the word, and after him, the Messenger of the People Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7381	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what we heard from Minister Matkovic, who we thought was more correct than the others, really doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense, because she doesn't love her children any more than we do who love our children and that's something that's perfectly normal, but the people and the citizens have chosen us to be his representatives in the highest legislative body and that's what the president of the National Assembly did and said several times whether it cost 5, 6, or 7,000 marks. Yeah, it cost so much when the Democratic Party MPs brought us 75 kilos of amendments, we couldn't get cars and we couldn't bring our trucks home, we couldn't bring them. It cost the same amount, and then we were under sanctions. That doesn't make any sense. We're here to talk about the law, we're here to talk about it correctly, to point out what's wrong with the law, to talk about what's good, to change them and make people's lives more tolerable or incomparable than they are today. Some here have said whether someone has the right to propose certain laws or not, whether the government could have done it 10 or 12 years earlier. The Socialists ruled for 12 years, and I don't like the Socialist Party of Serbia, I speak plainly. You can love me, I don't love you. What are you going to do, that's something else, but no one can deny them the right to submit proposals to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. No one can forbid anyone from speaking from this pay phone or from acting in accordance with the Constitution, the law, the Rules of Procedure or other acts. I'd like to talk about something here today, and that's what I said yesterday, that it deserves the most attention in this law, because so far we're not special in the law of this area and that matter of social life regulated, the fight against sects, so pseudo-healing and pseudophylosophy movement, and I think that's something that's most important at this point for our youth, for our minors first of all, but also for all the other citizens. It seems to me that this would be necessary and because we have a geometrical progression of increasing the number of members of these sects, we have them unfortunately within the government, they should also serve as someone who will openly oppose it, and you today have a minister of government of the Republic of Serbia who holds lectures as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses. You didn't even know that. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia is giving lectures. Recently, they melted ice in the Pionir Hall to allow them to hold their feasts and their gatherings. Nenad Bogdanovic: What are you lying about? Please behave.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7382	Mr. Wolfie, you're not running this session. I'll tell you who needs to behave, and the rest of you, please don't get it, and I'm asking you to continue without anecdote exposure. Focus on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7383	Don't get upset and don't have any anecdotes, but the truth, and if what someone said wasn't enough to warn him, and he was telling the worst possible dictionary, then I don't know what's gonna be enough for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7384	Mr. Vukic, when you become president of this assembly, you will hold a session the way you feel you should, and now I ask you to continue your presentation and I warn you to return to the agenda topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7385	I was talking about the agenda, and there's nothing more important than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7386	Then proceed without a pass, Mr. Nikolic. Mr. Nikolic, I'm warning you. This is your official first warning. Tell Mr. Nikolic not to interrupt you and not to disturb you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7387	I'm not interrupted by Mr. Nikolic, I'm being interrupted by another gentleman you say nothing to, but you interrupt me and you'll soon tell me it's time to break up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7388	Exactly, and you're using time for what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7389	There is one more thing I would like to point out to the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs. In time, they sought to delete from the law the ban on advertising cigarettes and alcoholic beverages. That's what we've been looking for, what we've been pointing to. We said it was a big problem in our country, we said that cigarettes and alcoholic beverages were advertised on all TVs, Milan Milutinovic insisted with the support of some mobsters from the top of the left-wing coalition that it should not be adopted. You know that's true. Unfortunately, today, the same you, which we criticise and rightly criticise, from the ruling majority will not accept it, because some of their MPS Zabunovic, who first fell into customs, advertises his cigarettes. These are some "ronhil" or I don't know what they're already called and sends greetings from Rovinj every five metres across Serbia's cities. (President: Time. I hope that because of all the irregularities, you will soon run out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7390	Don't talk about commercials for some cigarettes, talk about the bill and time won't leak.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7391	But you've never even looked at this law or read it, because commercials for cigarettes are about this law and you have no idea what you're talking about, Mr. President, because you interrupt me when I'm talking about the law directly. You interrupt me when I talk about something that is the most direct topic of this law. It's really something that's amazing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7392	I'm interrupting you because it's been six and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7393	Now you're saying you're interrupting me because I'm talking about something that's not a topic. It shows that you haven't even looked at the proposed law, and now I'm going to end up, Mr. President, with that it would be good and the government should respect something that's smart in this law, which is that in one comprehensive way we regulate problems for minors with all behavioral diseases, because it's better to regulate it by one special law, and the back of specialis derogat back generals, than to seek all provisions and norms of 10 or 20 laws, and that's something that could and should have been accepted, with the removal of certain irregularities through amendments, we were able to accept in such a way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7394	Replica, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7395	I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, I'll just say for a moment, no one here should love anyone, but we should respect each other. If we should love and respect anyone, it's the people who chose us and really here to do our job right, without wanting to use discussions about legal projects by constantly, for 10 years, going back, and forget about Markale, the embargo and the bombing and all the fiction, the Racak, the Radojin Lake, all that forgets. Every one of us loves his children, and he sits here because he has consideration for those who chose him. As for the hall, here are those who suspect, witnesses in the hall, grass slides, on April 21, 2001, the Belgrade City Assembly expelled the children and forced Jehovah’s Witnesses into the Pionir Hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-22-0.u7396	We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 135 MPs attend today's session. I ask you to determine if we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly, so I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the sittings of the following MPs: Dusan Golubović, Mihajlo Markovic, Borisvoje Mijatović, Živodarka Dacin, Dusan Budišin, Ljubodrag Grbić, Vladan Jovičić, Branislav Pomorički, Branislav Grubački, Bosko Ristić, Juhas Atil, Karolj Kermeci, Istvan Išpanovic, Živica Predojev and Srdjan Sikimic. In the morning, Milorad Stanulov, Vojkan Tomic and Neda Arneric are absent. The delay was announced by MP Slavoljub Matic. I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to be attended by the President, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move on to the 23rd point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL ON THE PROTECTION OF THE YOUNG MAN(s) The word has a National MP, Veroljub Arsic.
