ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by establishing the assembly majority, which is DOS in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have lost the government of the Republic of Serbia. I welcome the government to the refugee service. No government official is present today attending a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They're working. What's more important than a session of the National Assembly, my dear ladies and gentlemen? They write four-member laws and amendments to all four members. The government's representative under this bill is Mr. Vladan Batic. He sang his song yesterday and left, not waiting to hear (the government) what MPs have to say in their defense. I understand that the congregation majority has been established. You won the election. Start working and stop celebrating your victory. Mr Batic is performing after this speaker as an opposition MP who has not yet realized he won the election. He didn't win, he found himself on a winning train pulling some other locomotives. He still doesn't change the terminology, he doesn't change the performance, he doesn't act like a minister, he doesn't act like someone the people expect that much-wanted turn. What will the debate on the remaining two points of the agenda look like, or what will the judiciary and the judiciary look like when Mr. Vladan Batic takes it into his own hands? We can only guess. Yesterday, he said here that we, who represented the congregation majority in the previous meeting and who passed the Public Information Act, killed journalist Slavko Curuvija. I understand they're writing this paper, that's what television is about. You said no more proceedings under the Public Information Act, but that the Minister of Justice said so and that he did not provide any evidence of it and that he did not point at any of us. I watched as a kid on TV when Tito shows up and says there's a thief in this country, and everybody cuts. Twenty million people in Yugoslavia think each of them is individually a bit of a thief. So did Mr. Batic. You killed Slavko Curuvija. Who killed him? You kidnapped Ivan Stambolic. Who took him? How can you direct such a visit across the nation, which does not belong to your political option, to visit the indictment. Now we all feel guilty. I'm not sorry about Slavko Curuvius at all, but when he mentioned it, I kept my mouth shut. You don't feel sorry for the raped women and daughters, the Serbian girl, and you were screaming when it came to that. I've got it in me. That man acted so that someone probably got rid of him either because of criminal affairs or because he was picking on him where he didn't belong. But here's the minister of justice, here's the minister of police. Find the guilty, find the guilty, bring them to court. No more of those who aren't with you to accuse you of killing Slavko Curuvija. I hope you find out, but don't threaten anymore. You're not going to find out who killed Slavko Curuvija, are you? Let the organs do it. Yesterday, I reminded you of an article in the list of "Today" and no one really responds. I don't know this Mr. Lukic, who is now the Chief of Public Security. I don't know if he's a colonel, General. I assume he's a general. I've never met him in my life. But daily newspapers, Sundays, television and radio talk about him, talking about Serbia and Serbs. You all shut up now. The man at the top of the police is accused in the daily newspaper. If I'm talking about the papers, then the subject is public information, so please hold until I get off the phone. General Lukic has been accused of taking part in massacres in Drenica, Senik and Poklek.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u877	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u878	Those massacres had to be executed. Aluding to Serbia's MUP, alluding to the Yugoslav Army, alluding to Serbia as a state. General Lukic is accused of massacre in the village of Račak. Already all foreign states, their administrations say it was a setup to the Serb people and Serbian authorities, and Serbian funds of public information speak of Serbs committing massacre in the village of Račak. This law, which we have passed in time, is now in your possession for inspection. You cut it, and you don't bring the other one. He should still be applied, but his goal was to prevent this. The law that you will now abolish has prevented this defilement of Serbia and the Serbian people and every individual living in Serbia. You're opening the Pandora's box now. You promised so-called. to independent journalists that they will be able to get revenge on everyone who participated in the adoption of the Public Information Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u879	Mr. Nikolic, please take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u880	Now you're letting them start the hack. Who knows what they'll write about us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u881	The word came from Mr. Ivkovic, then, Mr. Ceda Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u882	Your Honor, Mr. President, I think it would be a good idea for us to agree on some things procedural, based on the Rules of Procedure, to work more efficiently, and also to know what order is and what order it is, so that there is no very unpleasant reaction that was similar. I've seen my time in Africa in Dodomia, it's the capital of Tanzania, and there it's the custom to clap about the bench, but it was really embarrassing yesterday, everything we experienced. According to Article 90(2) of the Serbian Government, it has the right three times to take the floor, in its first and last address it can speak even three times as much from the MPs and the middle, second address to speak as much as we speak. Article 92 of Article 5 says MPs also have the right three times to take a word in length as long as the other MPs have the right. In Article 96, it states, when it finds that there are no more applications for participation in the search, the president of the National Assembly concludes the search. What's this about? I understand you, President of the Assembly, that it is normal and gentlemanly, it is fair that a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when everyone exposes what they have to expose, gets the word. It's to be expected and I'd be doing the same in your place. It is to be expected if the Minister in the Government, or the Deputy Prime Minister or Prime Minister, in his final address after all MPs have been delivered, is really holding the agenda points and answering questions. I must say that last night was absolutely not the address of the minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia. He was here last night giving a rally talk in which he insulted a lot of people in this country, especially one of the good parts of this hall. Therefore, to conclude here, the final word of the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not have to and cannot be the last exhibit before the search is concluded. The president of the parliamentary group, unless he has previously used his right to speak three times, has the right to report to the government of the Republic of Serbia or a representative of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Believe me, I'm certainly not going to use this right either, and I suppose I won't use another one if the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia really answers questions in his final statement. Just because you have introduced this custom, we have experienced that you too, the President, but here in the Assembly, we remain remembered as the Assembly that adopted laws that were totally contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia at its Third Extraordinary Session, making decisions that were totally contrary to the laws in those areas. Do I remind you that by abolishing one-third of our own transformation laws, we have violated the members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia from 57 to 64. Unfortunately, just because the last ones spoke, the ministers were involved in politics, rallying, answering descriptive things, mentioning the man I highly respect, Mr. Curuvius, and I was usually a very good friend, but they didn't answer questions to break the constitution, to break the legislation. The next item on the agenda is just a violation of the legislative procedure, you've finally read about it in the papers these days. About the law, which I understand you'll adopt, let me tell you next. It is certain that every country needs to fight for free and responsible journalism. The fight for free journalism also involves fighting for responsible journalism. This law on information that was in force had problematic points, and those points were made by the Constitutional Court of Yugoslavia and abolished, but had those members who had bound journalists to morale, who obliged journalists to pay very good attention when they put a title on a man, place the picture, and tomorrow's denial in the corner of 8 microns, so you can't even read the bat. I'm afraid, and that's what I'm saying in public here, that this is all about correlation and this law that you're going to abolish and the next law that you're going to go towards a party resolution of judges and a decision on the formation of party judges and courts. I'm telling you, we're confident this is the beginning of the lynch. Lynch's already started, but this is an uphill spiral. Finally, as Serbia's judicial system works, I expect federal police minister Zoran Zivkovic to be arrested, as mayor of Nis, when NATO's aggressors decided to throw cluster bombs at them. I expect he'll be arrested by the director of Serbian railways because he let the train take the Gredish cliss when people decided to kill people. I expect he'll be arrested by the bridge director because he let little Sanja go to the barbaric bridge. It's an accusation against Gannet Milanovic, dear gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u883	Mr. Ivkovic, I had no intention of talking about yesterday's session that you did not again, as well as numerous MPs at yesterday's session, talk about something that is not a topic of agenda. So, the fact is that you spent 2.5 minutes of five scheduled minutes to discuss something that isn't the subject of this agenda point, and the subject of this agenda point is the draft law in particular, because we accepted the Public Information Act in principle. You have paid attention to quoting the Rules of Procedure, which, believe me, I have mastered for these few days as well as you have in a few years. And you've been arguing with me about something that's not at all controversial. You ate time to the National Assembly, tried to convince those watching television broadcasts that you were right about something, and that I was wrong about something, even though we all agree on what you said and what it says in the Rules of Procedure. So today we continued the debate on the draft law in particular. We had two kinds of problems at yesterday's session, and I hope that these problems at today's session will be less. The main problem is that, in my belief, most opposition party MPs, regardless of the justification of their sense of small representation in the media, who, by my conviction, are unwarranted and merely depicting their lack of understanding of the current real weight position in political life, but regardless of the feeling of a lack of the right to make political views in the media, have no right to correct it on this speaker in their own way, in breach of the Rules of Procedure and using the announcement on some points of the agenda for holding political lectures, which have nothing to do with what is being discussed in this assembly. Of course, such an incorrect appearance of a large number of MPs, with me feeling enough and perhaps too much tolerance on my part, allows me to jump out of the agenda and over time, creates another kind of problem. The theme is your behavior, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and my session management and allow me to try to establish further rules of conduct for a few more minutes, with your attention and tolerance. My goal is to try to put together rules of conduct in this congregation. Let me just say that the same objections I have put on one side are the reactions of the MPs on the other side, who, with much more patience and tolerance, must, in my opinion, hear whether or not they agree with the exposure of the opposition party's MPs, listen to what they have to say, and leave me to lead the session and warn the MPs if they violate the Rules of Procedure and if they interfere with the work of the session. If that doesn't happen, we'll have the course of the session he was yesterday, and he's far from what it would be. I therefore ask both MPs, opposition parties and parties in power, to help me pass this session in good order and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I still have enough political indiscretion, but political courage to exempt representatives of the Serbian Unity Party from taking part in this. The People's Messenger, Mr. Ceda Jovanovic, and then the People's Messenger, Mr. Zaharija Trnavcevic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u884	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, there are people, events, all the situations that don't deserve a comment. Whether we admit it or not, this congregation has said enough for itself, and we in it, and you, Mr. Nikolic, and I with you. We can't find the words that would introduce us in a different light than what the events of which we were the main actors did. You didn't have to tell us here for this pay phone that you're not sorry for Slavko Curuvia. Have you, as vice-president of the government, been acting as vice-president of the coalition government with the SPS, by adopting the Law on Public Information certainly proved two years ago, three years ago. You are to blame for the atmosphere in Serbia, in such a way that what happened to Slavko Curuvija was a logical trail of events that you had previously sparked to him. A ban on the publication of the weekly "European", the brutal punishment of journalists and editors of the Daily Telegraph, a verdict that was issued three days before the murder, in a daily list on which you had a marked power of influence. And since you were vice president of the government in a state of war, it obliges us to view here in front of this assembly Slavka Curuvija as one of the tragic symbols of the time left behind. We're not accusing you of the death of Slavko Curuvia. We don't know if you're responsible. We know you're responsible for creating the atmosphere in which it happened. The police will determine who's responsible for this, but Mr. Nikolic, we ask you to spare us and the public the brutality you've shown for this pay phone as a symbol of the time left for us. You can say everything and it will be lost without our comment. The comment will be given by the courts, the prosecution and the police, who are intensively conducting the investigation. Mr. Curuvius can't return anything, as nothing can lessen the insult you've caused us with your performance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u885	I don't even feel a shred of sadness for Slavic Curuvia. The fact that he was an honest journalist in me was broken the day a photograph of an old woman, who was probably walking in Calemegdan, was published on the cover of the Daily Telegraph, and she was probably in need of a little emergency. The photographer "Dnevni telegraph" took pictures of that old lady and posted on the cover of "Dnevni telegraph". It was a newspaper that was full of lies, a newspaper that was full of slander, an insult, and if it is a symbol of you as people who deal with politics, let it serve you honor. Let me tell you from this pay phone that sometimes I'm sorry and I don't feel sorry for anyone. I feel sorry for all those Serbs who died from 1990 until today, they were all attacked in their homes and in their properties, and I can't feel sorry for people who supported those who hit Serbs, who attacked Serbs. Excuse me, please, that doesn't make me a worse man than you and you have people you don't feel sorry for at all. Everyone chooses their society, everyone in their society, and your society was Slavko Curuvija, as one model of journalists, and it meant nothing to me and not a single daily newspaper was ever influenced by the SRS, not a single one. That's one big lie. If you thought that journalism in Serbia, after this change of law, would change so that journalists of the type Slavko Curuvija appear on every corner, then there will be nothing left of this country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u886	The People's Messenger, Zaharija Trnavcevic, has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Petar Jojic, with one more request that you remember what is the point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u887	Dear Mr. President, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday I was prevented from having an earlier obligation to be here when there was a normal debate on this agenda point. Since it's not over, I answered, because I've been waiting for this moment to say something, precisely about this law that was called Seselj's law in public. When someone inherits the house, they move into that house and he has, with full right, a big job to clean that house, arrange differently, to live in it normally and beautifully, to bring out everything that smelled, smelled, etc. And the agenda of this assembly, this extraordinary session, is exactly like that, of all the first five points of abolishing and amending some laws, including the Information Act. I must remind you that this law did not have any examples in Serbian legislation, nor in Serbian Journalism. You know it was the 1905 Press Act, and there was only one member, who said, "The press is free". This time we had it behind us, now in a few minutes it'll be wiped out, the law that introduced the system of broken courts. In less than 24 hours, at the will of those who did not allow a different opinion and truth that insulted or threatened the position of the black and yellow coalition, it was brought to a short court and was pronounced, please, Mr Nikolic, abstain, the dragon punishment has been pronounced, with a desire for journalists to be intimidated, materially disabled and extinguished. Please, ton didn't bring the expected result. At a press conference, the president of Serbian radicals told gathered journalists, don't think you'll survive our possible liquidation. When one Deputy Prime Minister put it that way, what's left for someone out there who's on fire. What does that guy have to say to the press in any way? Please, never again in the history of Serbia, the Serbian people and Serbian journalistism will judge or regulate matters in the Journalism as it was with this law. And the law, and those who have brought it, and those who have carried it, go into one history, with one shameful mark. I have to say, I was personally shot because the Feman TV was shut down after 24 hours of broadcast. When I sent a request to the Minister of Information to Mr. Alexander Vukic, he never responded to that letter, nor to several of my proposals, to announce and accept corrections to the various lagaries and accusations that led to the country's collapse. It's never been considered, and that's what the law says. The law used what you gentlemen supported, which is, to preserve an idyllic picture of how everything is fine in this country, that our misfortune is blamed by some others, not those who have managed this country for 10 years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u888	Mr Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u889	There are well-intentioned advice, when people go into a certain age of life, to stop eating meat because it affects their nervous system. I didn't expect you, Mr. Trnavevich, to speak from this pay phone like this. I'd say that's the word you used, marking radicals and not being warned by the president of the National Assembly for the word you used. But Vojislav Seselj addressed journalists who were financed from abroad at a press conference, right after the assassination of Federal Defence Minister Pavel Bulatovic. Of the same countries, which we rightly say have staged the murder of Minister Pavol Bulatovic. He told them, my dear gentlemen, you better hear it from me than you might have read something in the papers, he told them, it doesn't matter if you're throwing bombs at our children, whether you're killing our citizens with guns or writing on the orders of those who shoot and kill and create an atmosphere in the country, that there are even more murders here, more assassinations; and you're killers of your people, like those who send bombs on us, and don't think if your mentors, your mentors, who pay you, start killing us, that you'll stay alive. Although I also think that you were so threatened by the most powerful spy organizations in the world, who funded you all here, except for the gentleman I told to apologize to from this pay phone because I don't consider him a traitor, that you were in such a position, and you would have to defend yourself in every way possible. You weren't in that situation, you were counting how many buildings were destroyed, how many bridges were destroyed, how much the standard of living has fallen, and when the people are going to solve, close their eyes, squeeze their noses and vote for DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u890	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u891	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 1 of the proposed law is said to cease the current Law on Public Information. The Law on Public Information ceased to apply on 5 October 2000, when the DOS came to power. This is just one declaration to you, which in the legal dictionary would say, a decision that has nothing to do with it and represents, in my opinion, one absolutely nothing. Please, it means it's like when someone dies and the moment the leaver dies becomes heir, and the court only declares a solution to the inheritance. When it comes to the means of public information, Mr. President, I am surprised by yesterday's statement, that the means of information at the moment have been directed at you, when someone has given you one information that is not true and that is a statement from the state authority, that is not true claims made by the MP of the SRS Janjic. It is sad that the Republic Assembly is not discussing the situation in southern Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u892	Mr. Jojic, I'm really warning you, it's not all in the context and I'm warning you that I'll take your word from you if you keep speaking out of the agenda. Go ahead, go ahead, but about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u893	Last night, the Security Council discussed the situation in Kosovo and the situation in the southern Serbian province and made a decision and condemned the Cypriot terrorists. Yesterday we had a situation that the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia read a statement that absolutely represents one misinformation. Yesterday, a Serb was killed, and three were badly wounded. Therefore, when we talk about the Law on Public Information, let me just remind you that the means of public information are being reported to our public: "Vojislav Kostunica says - with terrorists there is no conversation... "
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u894	Mr. Jojic, you don't know what you're saying. Mr. Jojic, I beg you to listen to me and I am last warning you. We're talking about a proposal for a public information law. Does your newspaper list have anything to do with it? We're not discussing, Mr. Jojic, about editorial policy, and I believe that you know how to read and believe that you read the paper, but I'm asking you one last time to talk about what's on the agenda, because I'm going to have an obligation to take your word from you. No questions asked, you're making me in trouble.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u895	I beg you, where are the members of the government in this distinguished parliament?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u896	Thank you, I take your word for it, Mr. Jojich. Mr. Jojic, I took your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u897	Dear gentlemen, just one short sentence, I'll tell you that you have Chank in DOS, it'll be worse than JUL. I'm worried about who you got in 18 games?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u898	The People's Messenger Stevan Guduric has the word, and then Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u899	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not my fault your minister is small, so you can't hit him with an egg. The draft law on the termination of the Law on Public Information - after these three or four days of the Assembly's work, I think this Serbia will start to think that nothing is easier than doing legal sciences. The law counted from 1 to 4 members, with three to 15 amendments. It's not God knows how hard and I'm afraid that college will lose weight. I am not surprised at all, Mr. President, that only in this assembly are the people's MPs and that only they get on their noses and that they're the only ones holding onto the tyrants, the truth not so much from you as from Mr. Minister, and that's not weird at all. In this assembly we Socialists are opposition, the SRS is opposition and the SS are opposition. You're called the opposition, 250 opposition MPs, and it's normal for the government to beat us any way they want. The government should be called, with one member of the law, the "despot" government, and it can't be democratic, because it's something else. Here we are being held by the tyrants about the protection of characters and deeds, and I will read one thing to you, it is very short, where it is said: "Our imperative is to protect the name of Dr. Vladan Batić as a man who deserves our loyalty, trust and to follow him on the path that he protects us", on December 25, 2000, the Municipal Committee of his party in Beocino - Comrade Tito we swear to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u900	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u901	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen, here is an apparent violation of the Rules of Procedure, which states: "If the bill is accepted in principle, the National Assembly shall move on to a search in detail and a decision on amendments. The debate is being held in particular by members whose amendment is also proposed for amendments proposing the introduction of new provisions." That means we've completed the debate in principle and all the debates here have been restored to debates in principle. So when speaking in particular, it's about amendments, all amendments were adopted yesterday and they became an integral part of the law and I beg you, Mr. President, don't return the debate to principle. And then, says Article 139. Rules of Procedure: "When the draft law is completed in detail and the decision on amendments is made, it shall approach the vote on the draft law in general." We finished that part of the job yesterday, and I'm asking you, Mr. President, to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u902	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I would like to stick strictly to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I think it is in the interest of all MPs, who are elected here by the will of the people in front of their political parties, to use their parliamentary rights and to speak as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and in a manner specified by the Rules of Procedure. I want to talk today about the draft law in particular, and I want to talk about Article 2. The law you're proposing. In Article 2. The law, which proposes to stop the applicable Public Information Act, is said - until the law enters into force... Mr. Batic, behave yourself. You are the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You're not an MP. You weren't there when Mr. Toma Nikolic told you about your earlier performances and told you to finally become Minister. Please, yesterday it bothered me, and today it bothers me that you're throwing it out of the bench all the time. I'm using my... Until the entry into force of the Law, which will regulate the way in which freedoms and rights are exercised in the field of public information, Article 2, laid down by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, will apply the provisions of the Law of Article 1 of this Law to which these issues are regulated. [[Professor Batic's comment is not heard]] In fact, what I couldn't say yesterday, and now I'm talking about the Law in particular because yesterday there was no time, only five minutes, this law retains only those provisions relating to registration and registration, the termination of the public record code for that competent ministry. I therefore believe that this law should also contain a provision, because this is a transitional law, because we expect you to bring a new one, which will be sanctioned by all those who were sanctioned under the previous law because they did not respect the inviolability of human dignity and the right to the private life of a man. That articles, information or information cannot be published that offends the honor and reputation of the person, or make false of his life. We will again, ladies and gentlemen, find ourselves in a situation until this phantom new law and this area is arranged that we must and we can only rely on a criminal law that, in general, is under the patronage of the Justice Department. We'll see what kind of minister he is, but tomorrow we'll see what kind of courts and what kind of court presidents we'll be able to exercise those rights. Is it natural that any MP in this assembly can't do his own honor and dignity by law, to which this area should be regulated, to defend, as was the case with the previous law, if such untruths and lies are published, which are full and today's daily presses, and as regards the course of yesterday's session. The law predicted, which is deleted by Article 2 of this Law now, again I am talking about details, that someone who publishes any information must prove it within 24 hours. I was really surprised then, and I'm surprised, and now that someone dares, we MPs can't tell lies, deceive the public, or ourselves here, and in the law, it's strictly said that someone in 24 hours has to prove it, and I'm surprised to those journalists and to all of you who support it, that someone can publish disgusting lies about Dr. Vojislav Seselj saying that Montenegrins will wear yellow ribbons, that someone slaughtered someone's wife or such a disgusting lie, and that they don't answer. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think yesterday's vote to abolish this law made a big mistake, because it was the best way to protect rights, honor and dignity and all of us present and all of Serbia's citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u903	We had an objection to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. In the meantime, I realized that the MP was absolutely right. In accordance with Article 137, I am obliged to suspend this debate and approach the conclusion. (One MP answering for word.) Is that it or is it something else? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u904	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to remind you of article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, where, the moment the MP warns of a breach of the Rules of Procedure and does not get an explanation that he is pleased with, the president of the Assembly is required to put it to the vote whether or not the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Since, in this case, a directly injured Rules of Procedure has been violated, article 137 has been decided. Rules of Procedure, it would be good to put it to a vote and vote and that the debate on details can be conducted only if there are amendments to the MPs who report for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u905	I don't think there's any need to put it to a vote, if that's okay with you, but to find that there's a legitimate objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Employees - members and amendments are at stake. Nothing, then I'll put it to a vote. I accept your objection, but we will put the MPs to the vote at the request. Please determine the quorum first. We have a quorum. Please let us vote. I am putting your motion on the vote to suspend the debate regarding the application of Article 137 whether the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I'm just saying what's the consequence of that vote, so what are we voting on, so that we know who's for, who's against, who's abstention. So, I'm putting Mr. MP's motion to vote that the Rules of Procedure have been broken. I find that 153, against 10, two abstentions, no 18, and a total of 183 MPs are present. On the basis of this decision, I find that the National Assembly has found that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure and, based on that decision, I conclude the examination of the Bills in particular. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. We have a quorum. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the termination of the law on public information in general. For 142, against 47, the abstentions were not voted by three, a total of 192 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on the termination of the Law on Public Information. [[Applause]] We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - THE SUMMARY OF THE DECISION ON FINISHING THE FUNCTION AND DISCOVERING OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE FUNCTIONS Within this item of the agenda, you have also adopted the following proposals for decisions, which were also laid down by the National Assembly by the Committee on Justice and Parquet. 1. Proposal for a decision to suspend the Judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the office of President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the duties of the President of the Court, 4. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the office of President of the Municipality Court in Kragujevac, 5. Proposal for a decision to suspend the court's office to the judges of general jurisdiction, the economic courts and the jury of the District Court in Belgrade, with an amendment and addition of the motion for a decision, 6. Proposal for a decision on discharge from the court's office of Judges of the Municipal Court in Nis and the Municipal Court in Presevo, 7. Proposal for a decision on discharge from the duties of the Republic Public Prosecutor, and 8. Proposal for a decision to suspend the function of the public prosecutor. You also received a notice from the Constitutional Court of Serbia on the existence of a reason for the end of office of judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. I propose that all proposals for decisions on the termination of functions and the resolution of judicial functions be subject to a single search, and that the National Assembly be particularly clear on each proposal for a decision. If there are no other proposals, I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u906	I suggest that the Assembly declare the duration of the discussion, which would be limited to five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u907	We'll get to that, anyway, just to decide how we vote. So, please, let's determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. ) I would like to put the motion to the vote and ask the MPs to vote on the corresponding key. I conclude the vote and find that 142 MPs, against three, abstentions, did not vote 32, a total of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single review of the motions for decisions on the termination of functions and the resolution of the holders of judicial functions. Pursuant to Article 92(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have already been proposed to limit the duration of exposure to five minutes. Any other suggestions?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u908	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it really doesn't make sense if we put together two points of the agenda, that it stays five minutes for two points of the agenda. First, there's no point in being five minutes for one point, and now two more, so please, Mr. President, if we've already united the debate, it'll be up to ten minutes, because there are two completely unrelated points of the agenda and there are completely different explanations, explanations. We want to warn of a violation of the law and the Constitution, completely different in these two points. I think you're going to have to warn us a lot. Maybe there will be some conflict between you and the two of you having a session, and you have an obligation to last five minutes, and we who can't say all of this in five minutes, and what kind of discussion is this that you break up somewhere in half? I suggest ten minutes for a united debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u909	This is actually an argument against making a reduction decision, compared to the Rules of Procedure established. It's not a new proposal. A five-minute cut has been proposed, and you've made an argument against the cut.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u910	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, this is an honorary home, which, if individuals and groups continue to behave like this, is increasingly losing its meaning and losing its reputation. The truth is, the people observe, the people appreciate, the people judge, the people judge, the individuals judge, and the groups, but they do not understand it. These two days, which we have spent here, listening to individuals and groups, and what we have experienced in our own right, points out exactly the opposite-- that we should hear as little as possible and that this is in their interest, and in the interest of the Serbian Radical BAAS Party and SPS, Slobodan Milosevic, without JUL, and in the interest of us, who have good intentions in this honorable home, I suggest that the discussion be reduced to three minutes, given the flagrant abuses they have committed. We no longer intend to tolerate it, because they have nothing to say, so we repeat, it is in their interest to hear as little as possible, and we have to guard this weak opposition, because it threatens the real danger of no one voting for them anymore, if they welcome the elections, and it threatens the real danger that those who accidentally or by mistake gave them trust and chose them as MPs, to deny them such trust, so that soon we have no opposition. We'll have to draw it, I suggest we make it out of hard paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u911	Replica was reported by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u912	Dear Mr. Chairman, I think you have both a formal and a moral obligation for a MP who is such an inappropriate disqualification, who is directed at totally Bolshevik totalitarianism, to teach him to sit in this assembly 250 members of equal rights. If you want to vote that one second is a discussion, I get it, nothing's wrong with what we need to talk about right now, it's totally out of the judiciary law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u913	We have three proposals, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. I would like to put Mr Jovanovic to the vote first, and to vote, please let us determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I put Mr Cedomir Jovanovic's proposal to vote. For 135, against 11, abstention 6, 26 MPs did not vote. I find that we have found that within this point of the agenda, the debate will take place within 5 minutes. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He wants to. He has the word Mr. Dragore Hiber.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u914	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Justice and the Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has referred to the National Assembly several motions for resolution, i.e. for the termination of the office of judge, public prosecutor, deputy public prosecutor, as well as a number of motions for termination of office in the judicial administration, the termination of office of the President of the Court. It's a big number, but it doesn't need to be fooled or confused. A large number of proposals, now on the Assembly agenda, arrived at this assembly before the disbanding of the previous assembly. In fact, we were given the impression that a significant number of professionals - the judge often submitted a request for resolution. These requirements have been adopted, and new judges have been elected in their place, according to criteria that are well-known. The proposals, submitted by the Committee on Justice to the National Assembly, can be divided into three groups. The first consists of proposals for the termination of the judge's or prosecutor's office for retirement. The proposals went through the necessary procedure before Serbia's Supreme Court, a republican public prosecutor, i.e. the Constitutional Court of Serbia. It is only in the National Assembly to realize that the conditions are met, i.e. that the judge or prosecutorial office ceases. Among these proposals are a proposal to suspend the position of Serbian Constitutional Court Judges, Mrs Spasenija - Cane Babovic and Mr Tefik Lugici. When a decision on their retirement, i.e. a retirement resolution, is made and effective, only four judges will remain in the Constitutional Court of Serbia instead of nine, with the constitution envisaged. Of which one economist, as president of the court, and three lawyers. The state of the Constitutional Court is alarming. He won't be able to make any more decisions. The second group consists of motions for resolution on its own request by the holders of judicial functions. As more than two laws have passed in all of these cases provided for a month in which the competent authorities, and finally the National Assembly, should be made aware of the request for resolution, it is only in the National Assembly to establish that the judicial function has ceased and to determine the date on which that two-month period has expired. Within the group, decisions were also proposed on the requirements for the resolution of former Serbian Supreme Court President Mr Balša Govedarica and former Republika Srpska Public Prosecutor Dragisa Krsmanovic. Some of their demands are different requests for Mr Nikola Popovic's discharge, the president of the Kragujevac Municipal Court, which requires that he be dismissed from the president's judicial and administrative functions, but not from the office of the judge. In all these cases, the decisions of the National Assembly are merely declarative. The Assembly shall establish the date of termination of the judicial office. The committee unanimously suggested that the Assembly do this. During yesterday's session, however, you received a supplement, i.e. an amendment to the proposal that belongs to this group. The essence of the correction is that on the list of judges, whose resolution is proposed on their own, is the exception of Judges of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, Mr Nenad Matovic. The proposal was originally made on the basis of documentation that the National Assembly had and seemed complete. In addition to Mr Matovic's demands, there was also an appropriate proposal from the Supreme Court of Serbia. Meanwhile, Judge Matovic addressed this committee with the claim that he has withdrawn his request for a settlement from the two-month legal deadline on a timely basis. I'm stating these facts because they show how they work in our justice system. Judge Matovic addressed the motion for resolution through the First Municipal Court, the Supreme Court of Serbia and the National Assembly of Serbia on July 18th 2000, and withdrew the proposal in writing, which we were presented with relevant evidence on 29 August 2000. Despite the timely withdrawal, the president of the First Municipal Court dismissed Judge Matovic, interrupted his employment relationship and concluded his work book. Judge Matovic has brought proceedings before the Second Municipal Court against this decision, but the case has not moved forward. After the Justice Committee established these facts, we received a letter from the Supreme Court of Serbia, which joins the proposal to honour the withdrawal of the request for the resolution of Judge Matovic, i.e. that he is not relieved of his post. An example of Judge Matovic shows that he has problems organising the work of courts in Serbia. This is what the third group of proposals submitted to the National Assembly by the Committee for Justice and Administration is based on. The National Assembly is proposed to be relieved of its duties in the judicial administration, the duties of the President of the Court of Justice in Belgrade, Mr. Bozoje Marjanovic; the President of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, Mr. Radomir Milic; the President of the Second Municipal Court in Belgrade, Mr. Stojan Nikic; the President of the Third Municipal Court in Belgrade, Mr. Tomislav Zekovic and the President of the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade, Mr. Vladimir Ilic. I would like to, ladies and gentlemen, in particular to point out that none of these cases are about a motion to resolve from a judicial post. If this proposal is adopted, the gentlemen remain judges in the courts in which they are elected. It's only about resolving from the administrative office of the president of the court. This was necessary to emphasize for the next reason. The Constitution and the Law on Courts provide for the continuity of the judicial function. The judge's office may cease against the will of the judge only for the reasons laid down and in the law provided for in the procedure. On the contrary, the function of the judicial administration is not permanent. The presidents of the courts are elected within four years, therefore, with a limited mandate. The election of the President of the Court and the end of the term of office of the President of the Court, including the suspension before the end of the term of office, do not affect the court's office and do not insult its continuity. Therefore, the Law on Courts stipulates that the election and resolution of the President of the Courts are subject to rules applicable to the choice of judges, but only if the law does not prescribe anything else. The law prescribes something else, and therefore there is no conclusion that the procedure I apologize, Mr. President, if I may continue my exposés. [[Employees from the bench: Which member of the Law?]] I didn't come here to have a dialogue. Everyone talks the way they can. I'll keep talking the way they taught me and how I learned. The law stipulates that rules on the termination of office of the President of the Court shall be applied to the termination of office, unless otherwise specified by the law. Already in the next position, the same member, foresees a special possibility of ending the office of the President of the Court, without leaving the office of the judge, for reasons concerning the ugly organisation of the court. The Law on Courts therefore provides that the President of the Court may be dismissed on a proposal from the competent assembly body, which is the Committee on Justice and Administration, if there is a responsibility of the President for non-execution of cases in the court, so if the courts fail to achieve satisfactory results. This is exactly the situation that led the Justice Committee to refer the proposal as it was addressed, and without the procedure for dissuasion from the judicial post. The Committee found that the work of courts in question is unsatisfactory, insufficiently efficient, that the hearings are delayed and not maintained, that the proceedings take too long. He also took into account these proceedings concerning the resolution, which were referred to, and the situation in the library department of the Second Municipal Court and without law, he had also taken into account the work of the Third Court in the execution of criminal sanctions, i.e. the work of the Fourth Court in the executive procedure. The Committee found that there was an objective responsibility of the president of the courts for a lack of good organisation. The Committee stresses in this respect that it did not establish the existence of any legal reasons for the resolution from the judicial post. There is no reason to consider this occasion whether there is an unprofessional, unconscious or unlawful work of judges. Hence, the motion for a discharge from the office of the President of the Courts does not affect their professional or personal integrity. It is objective responsibility for hard work, which best illustrates Judge Matovic's example, which I was talking about. By submitting these proposals to the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice found that it was in a difficult role to propose, as the law, Constitution and Rules of Procedure requires, the discharge of judges, although it is the working body of the National Assembly's legislative body, as a system that wants to be a system of power-sharing. The Committee therefore initiated a procedure for the adoption of a new law on courts, under which such proceedings will be entrusted to an independent, professional body, independent of both legislative and executive bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u915	Mr. Ivkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u916	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this item of the agenda, together with the next item of the agenda, is the finals of a single orchestra for mounted political processes. I was sorry to see Mr. Hiber, a respected professor of law school, where my child is also studying, struggling not to say what I'm going to ask him directly. Professor Hiber, in front of all MPs and in front of the public, I ask you whether what you're doing as chairman of your board is according to the Court Act or not? Answer in front of everyone here, is it according to the Court Act or not? I'm saying it's not. You, as a judicial committee, have the right to launch an initiative, but an initiative to the Supreme Court of Serbia and a procedure under the Law on Courts is known as work. Instead of an initiative by the Supreme Court of Serbia, you have launched a proposal to the Assembly to pass the Law on Courts for total political marketing to bring its party courts. I was sorry, Professor Hiber, to listen to you and a certain judge, Matovic, trying to get in touch with the illegal legal action that you are doing as a professor of law school, and I was sorry that as a professor of law school, who you have the duty to protect your students and to protect your colleagues, you did not feel the need to notice in public the present threat to all the performers of the judicial function. I will read to you the resignation of the district attorney in one paragraph, which says - the above-mentioned statements, which means statements by members of the transitional government, members of the DOS government, by persons who are rightly expected to be given on the basis of verified facts, fellow Hiber, represent an objectively unfounded demeaning of the work of such a significant state judicial authority, people who are safe and under difficult conditions, and for more than a modest salary, carry out difficult and responsible tasks, and in particular the public prosecutor, i.e. directly undermines the confidence of citizens in this judicial authority. This must also be contributed by statements in the means of public information, colleagues Hiber, who, even before applying any charges, are prejudged by certain criminal proceedings and even by their duration, are engaged, which is certainly contrary to the need for judicial authorities to act exclusively under the Criminal Law and the Criminal Procedure Act. Since 5 October, we have witnessed terrible pressures on the judicial authorities, the flat-rate assessment that judges are no good, that prosecutors are not good, that the investigative authorities are no good, that no one is no good, but that the new DOS authorities in the image of the new justice minister will be able to do the job. Comrade Hiber, I expected you to stand up for this speaker against the flat-rate reviews of your former students and your fellow seniors or your generation, to advocate a truly independent judiciary. However, you will agree with me, in a situation where the ministers and vice-presidents of the DOS transition government, when even the president and the members of the government of this current elected, allow themselves to be arrested through the newspapers of people and to abolish the Public Information Act, which has committed to the moral and material responsibility of those who lie, it is certainly clear to you, as I do, that there is nothing from an independent judiciary. We are going to an addictive court, and it is certain that we are going to an addictive judiciary and your illegal decision to replace people without giving them a chance by law that the rapporteur has the right to talk to the President of the District Court and the Presidents of the Municipal Courts about the lawsuits that are being filed and which are the reason for such an initiative.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u917	Mr. Hiber answered. Just to remind you, for a replica, or you have the right as a representative of the promoter to report again during the search and finally, in a time of threefold longer than the time set for MPs. So, during the search, you have one more right and finally, of course. The word came from Mr Nikolic, then Mr Ceda Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u918	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today would be the most honorable time to disband the Committee on Justice and Administration and choose a new one, which will act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the laws and be the real auxiliary body of the National Assembly, if for nothing else that is due to today's agenda in which the Committee has served as a cover for the Minister of Justice. I don't know the presidents of the courts you're proposing a resolution. I've never had and I don't have any litigation that they could decide on, thank God they don't even have members of my family, family, neighbors, friends. I haven't influenced anyone how they're gonna do their job. I only heard the name Vladimir Ilic in 1996 or 1997, when the Serbian Radical Party filed a criminal report against him as president of the Electoral Commission. Against him and then Secretary of the Zemun Municipality, who was Secretary of the Election Commission. It was about embezzlement of money belonging to the Electoral Commission to conduct the election. And the name of prosecutors Biljana Radovanovic, Andrija Milutinovic and investigative judge Vojkan Simic in an affair with Mercedesbenca AG-Stutgart and DD Belgrade, in which the state was damaged by several million marks, which I received information about when both Minister Batic and Minister Mihajlovic both meant neutrally thinking about everything. As neutral as one MP can be neutral. What is wrong and what is illegal in this decision if the National Assembly makes it today? Let me introduce you to the provisions of the Law on Courts relating to this item of the agenda. The law is here and we can give it to the MPs, who may be mistaken for Mr. Hiber telling the truth and not giving them enough evidence to tell the truth. Article 17 point 2a. - The Supreme Court determines the existence of reasons for the termination of the judge's office and the resolution of the judges, and informs the National Assembly. Article 27. - The general session of the Supreme Court consists of the President and the Judges of the Court. The Supreme Court of the General Court, under paragraph 2, determines the existence of reasons for the termination of the judge’s office and the resolution of the judges and informs the National Assembly accordingly. Article 29(1) - The provisions of this law on judges also apply to the President of the Court, unless the law sets out otherwise. There are no different provisions in the Law on the President of the Court, which would derogate the provisions, so let's say that the President of the Court can dismiss the Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Justice and the Administration of the National Assembly. Article 36. - The Supreme Court shall directly or through the mediators of the relevant court supervise the cases in accordance with the prescribed deadlines and conduct of acts and complaints, not the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly. Where, in the exercise of the supervision referred to in Article 1, the existence of facts and circumstances, which indicate the untimely and unconscious conduct of judges of the relevant court, the President of the Supreme Court shall initiate proceedings to determine the responsibility of the judges. Article 46. - The judge and judge of the jury will be relieved of the judicial duty against their will, at point 1, if convicted of a criminal offence for an unconditional sentence of at least six months, or if convicted of a criminal offence incompatible with the performance of a judicial post, paragraph 2, if, on the basis of the findings and opinions of the competent medical institution, it is established that, due to a health condition, it has permanently lost its capacity to perform its duties, paragraph 3, if it is determined that it carries out its judicial function unequivocally and unequivocally, paragraph 4, if it is established that it performs a function contrary to Article 5 of this Act. Article 47 reads - A decision on the discharge of the Judge’s duties for the reasons set out in Article 46(3) may only be taken if a procedure for establishing the grounds for discharge has been previously implemented and if the judge, or the jury’s judge, is allowed to make a statement on this proposal. Article 48 reads - The President of the Supreme Court is initiating proceedings for the resolution of judges. The National Assembly's competent authority is initiating proceedings for the resolution of the President of the Supreme Court. I have underlined this, Mr Hiber, to hear all MPs - an initiative to initiate the court's discharge proceedings can be given by the President of the Court, a session of all judges or judges, or the justice minister and the National Assembly's competent authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u919	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u920	So you're the one who fooled us here. The Justice and Administration Committee could only launch an initiative to dismiss the judge, deliver that initiative to the Supreme Court of Serbia, that he, in the general session of the session, confirmed that someone could not perform the office of the President of the Court of Justice and that the Supreme Court would inform us, that the Supreme Court would inform the National Assembly that he had made the decision, but not without the presence of the judges involved. These are the principles that the court applies when it does business with citizens. The initiative to initiate proceedings for the resolution of jury judges may also be given by the President of the Court, etc. The initiative sets out the reasons for the initiation of the procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u921	Mr. Nikolic, time, are you using your right in time?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u922	The initiative, together with the necessary data, is being delivered to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court shall carry out a procedure determining whether there are grounds for resolution and informing the National Assembly within 60 days of the date on which it was given an initiative to initiate the discharge procedure. Now that we know all this, I ask the Committee on Justice, did he give an initiative to initiate the procedure for the resolution of the presidents of certain courts in Belgrade, did he refer this initiative to the Supreme Court of Serbia, did the Supreme Court of Serbia implement the procedure, established the existence of reasons for the resolution of the President of the courts, whether the presidents of the courts attended the general session of the Supreme Court, at which it was discussed, and whether the notice came to the National Assembly, or the Committee for Justice and Administration? It's a legal procedure, and it has to be implemented. There's something else. Of all the members of the government, only the minister of justice has had permanent dealings with the courts. Others in the courts appeared spontaneously, and some run away from a subpoena as the devil from the cross. So these are the decisions of the Justice Minister behind the Justice and Administration Committee. The Minister of Justice knows better than we do what he's supposed to do, but he doesn't insist on it. Now we should degrade people, and we haven't given them a chance to plead. You're asking us to judge without hearing the other side, to judge without the right to defend ourselves. It's like democratic. He now fears all judges who have tried cases in which one of the parties was represented by Justice Minister Vladan Batic. Especially if Vladan Batic lost his case, and they say he lost almost everything. Each of them individually has a family, children, relatives, neighbors, friends, a reputation in society. Now let's all throw one stone at a time. But first in his mouth, not to say something that the people cannot hear. What's the rush, which can't justify breaking the law. I know you're getting ready to judge, you're talking about tens of billions of dollars robbed by the state, you're talking about a constitution we don't always have to stick to. Today I see that only those laws that please you will be applied. You'll need judges to extradite to The Hague. You should finally kidnap Galenika and Zorka Farm from Serbian citizens, but don't rape justice at first. Poor thing, she hasn't recovered from her previous owners yet. It's no excuse for wings. They used to do it, too. If everything is like them, they will return quickly to the political scene, and the people are against them, even though they are called DOS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u923	The word has been made by MP Milos Lukic, but the first one answered, I apologize, so as president of the group, Cedomir Jovanovic, a national MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u924	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the constitutional tradition of Serbia is nearly 200 years long. For nearly 200 years, in continuity, this country has been trying to define and protect the freedom and rights of citizens. The constitution, which the opposition is now calling for in the republic's parliament, was adopted in 1990. The opposition. You've quoted a number of members of the Constitution here. Whether we believe you or have forgotten by mistake that courts protect the freedoms and rights of citizens, the rights and interests of legal entities laid down by law and provide for the constitutionality and legality of the country. This is Article 95. You didn't read that article. You're in the business of replacing thesis. The Assembly exists to pass laws and, among other things, to appoint judges and to disobey the Constitution, as possible by the Assembly, the Constitutional Court decides. If the opposition suspects the good intentions of the Democratic opposition to Serbia, the proposings, the government, the judiciary and administration committee, they will have the opportunity to plead at the end of the debate. We are obliged to respect the interests of citizens, the needs of society, and to speed up the process of defining individual, not collective responsibilities, but individual responsibilities of anyone who has contributed to the state in which our country is within his jurisdiction. This is not about a judge's discharge, it's about one level, the establishment and willingness of the Assembly to comply with the judge's demands. It is about a resolution from the judicial administrative office of the President of the Court, which today, too, has been complained about here in due time, and now they are complaining and criticising DOS, and finally, to speak completely in plain language, it is about the intention of the DOS to introduce order and law into this society. We are with that intention and went before the citizens on December 23rd and received on the basis of the electoral will of the citizens of 176 mandates in this assembly and we are not running away from responsibility to define and regulate Serbia through the law. In order for us to succeed, we must do what we today ask Parliament to accept here. We need to get rid of the judges who were the striking fist of your regime in devising every notion of justice and justice. The citizens of this country didn't go to the judges expecting judges to protect them, they didn't go to the courts so they could get protection from your regime, they were going to get punishment. As we personally participated in this as actors, this time it is not the topic of debate. It is important that our intention, as persons with personal experience in your judiciary, is once and for all to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u925	Right on the line. Mr. Ivkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u926	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr Jovanovic, I deeply believe because of the citizens of Serbia that it is a fundamental commitment by DOS to make new legislative solutions so lively and to create in our republic that citizens are better off. I want it in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. However, in order to trust you, we must first recognize your willingness to obey the law. In order to trust someone who wants to and demonstrates their intention to make new laws, believing that these laws will be right, that there will be no discrimination in them, that there will be no events from Ub, the White Palanca and other places where the poles and the toages worked to force the government to a local level, then we need to recognize your desire and your intention to respect the existing legislation. Hence, the problem, which you are facing and which will make Serbian citizens think about who they are dealing with. It is amazing that you are prepared to repeal the solutions you do not like under existing laws, that you do not apply the procedure under the existing law. I have the right for three minutes, therefore, Madam or Madam Chairman, I would ask you to inform after informing me that I have the right to three minutes of replication. So we have asked only one question here, and we have asked the distinguished professor of Law School, Mr Hiber, and we are also asking the minister of justice, we expect an answer - is the proposal of the Justice Committee according to the Law on Courts or not? We expect because these presidents of the courts are professionals, people who did their job, people who have their families, their friends. With their shift, like this, I'm a hard illegal shift, you're putting fear into the bones of all the other prosecutors, the judges, the inquisitors you're now chasing because it's your only preoccupation and I'm saying you're producing a totally dependent judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u927	The word was requested by Mr Batic, you were not mentioned, Mr Nikolic, I have not heard, you have no right to a replica. Mr. Ivkovic's parliamentary group is mentioned, and I haven't heard from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u928	How was Mr. Ivkovic right? How's that?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u929	Your group hasn't called. There's no right to throw it out of the gym. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u930	I just want to point out the two-facedness that appears with the promoter and whoever explains this proposal. And you're warning us at the next item of the agenda, you're warning us, ladies and gentlemen, that some of our decisions from 2000 and 1999 were illegal and concerned with the resolutions of judges. In your explanation, we did not have a decision to hold a general session of the Supreme Court and that is why we annul those decisions two years later. I now warn you that you do not have a decision to hold a general session of the Supreme Court on this agenda. I'm saying the same thing you're warning us about at the next point, only I'll prove to you at the next point that we've had a procedure, and now you can't prove that you've implemented the procedure. What kind of people are you? If the judge can't be resolved without a general session of the Supreme Court and if you point that out, criticising the current power, how can you resolve judges and court presidents today? What do you mean, what are you talking about right? Minister, since you are not ashamed, I would be ashamed, for you ministers know that Smurfs are not afraid either, let alone I.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u931	The word has a minister of justice, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u932	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, everywhere in the world, the courts are one of the pillars of the rule of law and democracy. Everywhere in the world, where there is a system of division of power, courts are free and independent. Everywhere in the democratic world, judges have a huge reputation and an extremely high place in society. Such status allows judges and courts to be found everywhere in the democratic world on the defendant's bench and bearers of the highest state functions. These are the presidents of the state, the Prime Ministers, and we don't need to list examples of such practices, because they are many today, from Clinton, Cole and all sides. So there's no privilege for people who are at the head of the world's largest states, because courts are free and independent and fair terrorism are equal and equal for everyone. Only in Serbia, with the previous regime, the judiciary and the judicial system were broken below the most elementary level. Some of the holders of judicial functions were, unfortunately, the extended hand of the government and in the judiciary governed the principle of the famous moral-political resemblance: "whenmia sues, cadija judges and judges". The best example is the resignation of the District Attorney in Belgrade, the original had just been held in hand and read by the head of the SPS parliamentary club. What difference does it have to do with the resignation of the district attorney, which was passed on to the performer of the Republic Public Prosecutor, with the head of the SPS Parliament Club? Of course there is. So, in the judiciary, to this day it is respected as the Gospel that known Broz's password -- why judges stick to the law as a drunk float. Well, we gentlemen want in this new democratic state, in Serbia's rule of law, the judges are just keeping the law drunk. What relationship the former regime had with the courts and judges best testifies to the fact that the judges of the district courts, who decided on the freedom of the accused, the life and death, gave death sentences, had salaries below 200 marks. What the relationship of the former government was with the courts most plastically tells the fact that Serbia is probably the only country in the world where the Supreme Court did not have its own building. Can anyone imagine in the modern world that the highest judicial institution in one country does not have its own building, but judges of the Supreme Court are staying in a building where all ministries are located. No one has their own private cabinet. Two, three, four sitting in small offices. If anyone comes to them, those three have to come out so a man can have a conversation. I was present at many Supreme Court sessions, in the second degree, in appeal, and there is nothing regrettable. You go into one room, you don't know where the D.A.'s sitting, who's the reporter, where the court's council is. It's a disaster. Because that's how he wanted the past regime. It was a relation to courts, to the judiciary and to the holders of judicial functions. It's mentioned that someone's hiding behind something here. No, I don't. I'm not hiding behind anything. My biography is pure and honorable. I'm betting that all the files are published to see if there's anything dishonest about the résumés of people who are now in power. That's what I stand for. So let it be seen, let all be revealed. So there was no hiding, but it was the desire to choose the holder of judicial functions not by one single man, but by just one wider circle. We're going to make a valid law on judges, completely different from what we've been up to now, to include as widespread a circle of judges as possible, so that this selection can be such that we choose for the best. To only apply two criteria: highest expertise and high moral credibility. I didn't, Mr. Nikolic, lose almost a single lawsuit, I didn't have a lot of proceedings, I didn't make a move, and I wasn't someone who was corrupting judges, prosecutors, investigative judges, experts. I was one of the lawyers who had the highest number of successfully resolved disputes. It's a public secret. So I spent about 17 years in the judiciary. I'm a doctor. And, well, I happen to be competent to serve as justice minister. As for the proposal and the finding that the Court Act has been violated, it is not true. He would be injured if the presidents of the courts, who are to be resolved, and which Mr Hiber has namedly mentioned, were also resolved from the judicial post. Article 29. The law on judges, paragraph 6, says nicely that the same procedure will apply to the presidents of the courts as well as to the resolution of judges, if the law is not otherwise established. But the position of the 7th member of the same article has made it different for the presidents of the courts. There is, you know, Mr. Nikolic, that the lawyers know, you can't know that, interpreting a legal standard that can be semantic, etemological, grammatical, logical, so there are various ways of interpreting the legal norm and this is in the sphere of regulation of administrative status in the judiciary and that's why it's so possible. Not because never so far in Serbian practice is the case of a court president being dismissed at a Supreme Court session, at a general session of the Supreme Court. Give me an example, give me an example that this was done when the judges, the subject of the next agenda, were resolved. No, they're not. So, there is no violation of the law on judges, and when the presidents of these courts are already mentioned, one of them personally signed a decision to lift the detention of Miodrag Zečević, who we learn from the daily press that he fled abroad, that he was seen somewhere in Budapest trying to raise some money in some bank. Whose money? Robbed money from the citizens of this country. So... He was held in custody, so the judge himself signed a resolution on the suspension of the detention, whose resolution is required. [[growls]] So I hope it's past the time when justice and the judiciary were dealt with by the laymen, that it's past the time when the former undertakers were building a legal state. Because they built it, that's why the rule of law died in Serbia. So we have to fight for justice to prevail in these areas. We must fight to honor that password written under the Goddess Justicia, with the bond of eyes, with the sword in one hand and the terrors in the other hand, and beneath Justicia writes - may there be justice, even if the world fails.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u933	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have recognized myself by the name and function I have performed in my life.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u934	Is that a replica, Mr. Nikolic?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u935	Isn't Mr. Batic the first to warn me about it from this pay phone? But he reminded me, Batic, of something I read a long time ago. I've already forgotten, and now it's coming back to my brain. There was a buphony practice in ancient Greece. They want to kill the ox without anyone to blame. At Zeus' altar, they spill food, they release the ox, he comes to eat, one of the... Out of the crowd, with the sword he stabs him, throws the sword and flees, chases him, and the Lord can't catch him. Then they take the sword and the ox before the court. The wolf took food from Zeus' altar, and the sword that killed the ox. Condemning the sword, throwing it out of bounds and finishing the job, and the one who ate the ox never showed up. Mr. Batic, you're setting up a court president's shift. I could agree with her. Take her out in a legal manner. As I voted, we will talk about this at the last item of the agenda in 1999 and 2000 for the resolution of some judges but it was a complete explanation and I will show you these arguments. And they said that based on a letter from the Supreme Court of Serbia, the Committee on Presentations and Appeals proposes to the Assembly such and such a decision, so I could accept today. Please, people's MPs can lie, but we read what's in the material. The materials that you delivered today do not indicate that the Supreme Court has resolved this. In the materials delivered, I think Mr Nikolic was the chairman of the Justice Committee... No, you're Legislative... (Glasses - Lekovic. Lekovic Nebojsa, don't then, no, he wasn't, you were in a fight then, he knew who was going to win. The materials show that the Committee for Justice and Administration proposes to the National Assembly based on a letter from the Supreme Court of Serbia. That was something for me that MPs could decide on. Today, material is not suitable for MPs to decide. We can trust you or we can't trust you, but if the law applies to the presidents of the courts and applies as judges, you have to admit, if we have appointed the presidents of the courts here, if we have appointed the presidents of the courts, to get rid of them, let us conduct the same procedure as when we set them up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u936	The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u937	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, I will say a few words on this subject on behalf of the Serbian Unity Party Parliament Club, because it is obvious that this will be very often on the agenda of this assembly, so I think that if we discuss each individual proposal for so long, this assembly will have no other business. As far as the proposals made to the Assembly are concerned, I think it is entirely justified to be reasoned and based on the law. The Soviet Union has a position that is perfectly clear here, which is that judicial reform is needed and that judicial reconstruction is needed. For one reform of the judiciary, constitutional changes are also needed, which are extremely complicated and that we will certainly not be able to implement at this time. However, in the process of reconstruction of the judiciary, it is necessary to take account of the compliance of all applicable legal norms in the process of discharge of function holders. It means that we respect the Constitution and the Articles 46 and 47. Court law. Especially should we bear in mind the legacy of the past, which is where we can all agree regardless of what party we are from, because we know what the situation in the judiciary is. First of all, for economic reasons many judges have left this post, many of them are lawyers. We know that in this assembly we have a large number of lawyers and the question is whether, and under any conditions, any of them would return to judicial office. So, to restore that economic security and reputation to the judges. Let's go back to the time when we referred to the courts, or the judges, to the court of honor. I think it's one process that's begun, but it's certainly going to take a long time. In this respect, particular attention should be taken to the procedure for the appointment of new personnel to functions. At this point, it will be the leadership functions in the judiciary, so the functions of the president of the courts and prosecutors. We have a situation to mention that certain individuals are candidates, especially inside, and you probably know the situation here in Belgrade, that these people are already acting in a way inappropriately, as if these courts were given them private property. He's already threatening other colleagues, etc. I think that, especially in this area, it should not be and that it should be done on those criteria, which primarily protect the dignity of this profession and the reputation of the institution. To achieve this, the Soviet Union has a very clear proposal that all those who are candidates for these functions, the functions of the president of the courts and prosecutors, are elected through the contest. In these competitions, they themselves were obliged to provide accurate information about themselves, because for this there is a responsibility, unless they provide accurate data from their biography, including those on political engagement and party management functions, and everything else that applies as a criterion for elections. In particular, in order for all these criteria to be met, it is necessary to take into account the views of the collectives, because they are still collectives gathering colleagues, where they know exactly who is professional and quality, so this opinion would be one of those that would be crucial in making decisions on these functions. Then, the opinion of the Bar Association, which is also not for underestimation, which certainly has its crystallized views on these staffs, then the opinion of the Association of Serbian Lawyers, the Justice Committee, and in the end, I think, as the least important, should be the opinion of the political groups currently in power, at any level, especially at the local level, because there is a lot of personality there, so that the whole process is being questioned if this is not done in this way. Our party also believes that in this way we would free ourselves from the influence of local and other powerful people, because we already have opportunities for people who see themselves in such positions, who consider themselves powerful at the republican, county or municipal level, already trying phone calls and other ways to influence the work of judges and judges, and in particular to influence the humane solutions that follow. That judiciary that was spoken of before me, which is the concept government wants this country to give...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u938	Time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u939	I apologize, Mr. President, because there will be no other debates from our Parliament group. So we want justice to be established that will survive the current political changes and the current political processes, meaning that it will restore the reputation and honor primarily to the legal profession. As a result, we believe that one more time we need to seriously review these proposals and, if the procedure is not respected, to find it professionally, without being subject to political discussions, and if the profession is injured, or the procedure is not implemented properly, it would not mind that it is respected and done in this way. The SS did not have its favorites among the previous judicial leaders, nor does it want to favour new individuals. Our favorites are those people who would be elected under this procedure that I was talking about, which is to be a public competition, to gather the opinion of collectives and other competent institutions. In this way, in the functioning of this state, they would achieve goals such as fighting crime, personal and property security and restoring trust in judicial authorities. I'm thanking you. (Employer from the O.R.: No quorum in the O.R.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u940	We'll determine the quorum. I'm asking you to establish a quorum. (Employee from the O.R.: How can you just throw MPs to confirm the quorum?) The apostle throws you and you determine the quorum. Don't discuss it like that. Here's a pay phone. I owe it when there's no quorum to interrupt the session. We have a remark that there is no quorum. I can't get the MPs in line. However, I am obliged to interrupt the session when there is no quorum, and it is the duty of an MP to sit in the O.R. (Leila Ruzdić-TRIFUNOVIĆ, from the place: - Quorum is needed to determine the decision. That's what we do when we write a new Rules of Procedure. The current one doesn't say that. We can interpret it any way we want. I'm asking you to call the MPs to enter the O.R., secure the quorum and proceed with the work. The People's MP is reporting for word. Are you reporting for breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u941	It's about breaking the Rules of Procedure. Members of the Serbian Radical Party sit here, not inserting cards. They're asking the question of quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u942	Sir, don't win. Please approach the quorum determination. Please insert your cards. I ask the Serbian Radical Party's MPs to insert the cards, so we don't have to go to hand-counting. I figure we can get back to work. (GORDANA POP - LAZIĆ from the post: The parliamentary majority should make a quorum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u943	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, once and for all, to establish one rule of conduct here, in accordance with Article 117. The Rules of Procedure, which speaks of how an MP must be identified when he is in the O.R. and how this is done. I'll read you Article 117(1), to make it clear once that if we're sitting in an O.R., are we obliged to keep identification cards in MPs or not? I will read Article 117, paragraph 1, which says: "The MPs are obliged to use their identification cards exclusively, as well as to identify themselves when entering the hall by inserting a card into their MP's unit, i.e. to check out when leaving the hall. "That means, if we're sitting in the O.R., if we're present, we're obliged to insert our card into the identification unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u944	You're absolutely right. (Employor Stevo Dragisic asks for a word. Sir, if you asked for an answer, I ask you to listen to it. Mr. Ambassador, I didn't give you my word. Let us finish before. Your exposure is actually a finding. You have not objected to the violation of the Rules of Procedure by him who runs the meeting, but have warned of the obligations of the Messengers what they should do. We've talked about this on many occasions. You're absolutely right. The Rules of Procedure have no sanctioned what if some MP doesn't. That's why I talk more often to the MPs of the SRS, to insert identification cards like everyone else when they're in the O.R., so we don't have to go to the service count. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u945	The breach of the Rules of Procedure also refers to Article 117(2), which reads: "For a MP who uses the identification card of another MP, or otherwise abuses the electronic voting system, the president of the National Assembly proposes a move away from the session, and the vote that has been committed to abuse will be annulled. "We established yesterday, when establishing the quorum, several times, that you used the cards of the messengers who were absent, to provide 126 MPs in the hall. So now I tell you something, since of you 176 here there are over a hundred who first entered the National Assembly. You're the government, and we're the opposition. It is your duty to provide a quorum for the normal functioning of the Assembly. If you cannot secure the quorum on your own, the opposition may, for the reasons of obstruction or for some other political reasons, leave the session, bring down the quorum and not pass the laws proposed by the Government that you support. The opposition has the right to use all means to prove its incompetence. We're just taking the cards out of the I.D. units to prove that you're incapable of maintaining discipline in your parliamentary group. At one point over 100 of your deputies were not present in the O.R. Yesterday, if the SPS MPs had a little more insight, if they had left the gym or refused to vote in any way, instead of voting against, you wouldn't have passed one law. You wouldn't have passed because you didn't have 126 MPs in the O.R. You wouldn't have the quorum to decide. It's their fault, like opposition parties. Therefore, if you want us to go and make a cut, then we will arrange for the guards to watch how many identification cards your MPs left when they left the room and still valid when they found the quorum. Therefore, do not accuse us of obstruction. We are the opposition and we have that right. But you are the authority, and you must not abuse the Rules of Procedure, especially because sanctions are provided.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u946	Mr. Dragisic, you didn't actually have any objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please answer your word if you have anything to say, if not, not to report from the scene. When you see a breach of the Rules of Procedure, of course you have to wait until I give you my word and discuss the previous question. You, Mr. Dragisic, like any MP who sees a breach of the Rules of Procedure, are obliged, if you wish, to draw attention to that. I'll do the Rules of Procedure. Of course, I can't follow the remarks that apply to yesterday, and no one who violated the Rules of Procedure has been identified. Let's discuss the next question. While MPs are present in the hall, they are required, according to the Rules of Procedure, to register themselves by inserting their identification cards. If, of course, the right of opposition MPs, they don't want to make quorums, they can come out of the O.R., take their cards and check if there's enough left in the O.R. or not, but I can't sit in the O.R. and not insert a card. I hope that's what we discussed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u947	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, a member of the 118th said, "The MPs are obliged to carry the identification cards with them on their way out of the National Assembly Hall," which is not the case here. "If the MP leaves the National Assembly Hall and leaves his identification card next to it, the National Assembly Service will immediately deliver the card to the National Assembly secretary. The card will be returned to the People's MP upon entering the O.R. "Please do not engage in manipulation. I've been sitting in the O.R. since the beginning, both yesterday and today, Serbian Radical Party MPs are zealously inserting their identification cards, and then when they get out of the O.R., they put it in their pocket, in their purse, they come back again. No secretary, no service to pass and see how many DOS cards are being misused. Please make sure the Rules of Procedure is broken, and arrange for the Service to do its job.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u948	Of course, the secretary from his place of business, and especially when he's not in his place elsewhere, can't see, so if you have a specific case you say and will be followed by the Rules of Procedure. I hope we can keep working. The next registered speaker is MP Petar Jojic, and after that, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Parliament does not have the authority to put aside such a decision as is proposed, because it is an individual legal act, not a general legal act. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Parliament does not have the authority, so it is not a general act, but an individual legal act. What I am particularly concerned about is that the promoter did not specify a constitutional basis. In all the points of yesterday's agenda, with the draft laws and other acts, there is a constitutional basis for them, however, when it comes to the resolution of judges and prosecutors and the abolition of these decisions, there is no word on the constitutional basis. I must confess, and unfortunately to tell you, neither the Constitution nor the Law on Courts is respected here. The Law on Courts provides for what cases and how there is a procedure to be resolved by a judge or an elder of a judicial authority. It is not clear to me why there is no evidence that the motionary offers evidence to the Assembly and to the MPs that he has determined what is the situation in the municipal court to the First, Second, Third and Fourth, and that the Fifth Court does not include? Is it because Mr. Prelevic is from that court? I have the right to doubt it's the only and decisive reason. I ask as a People's MP to provide me with evidence of what is involved in the negligence, sloppyness, illegal behaviour or conduct, as the proposal says, of the operation and functioning of the First Municipal Court, headed by Mr. Radomir Milic. I don't understand what you've established, gentlemen of the Justice Committee, how you came to that view and the conclusion that Stojan Nikic was being misled by the Second Municipal Court. I don't understand how you could determine and invent an ordinary story for Tomislav Zekovic, who was appointed to the post of President of the Third Municipal Court last year. How can you look people in the eye, gentlemen of the Justice Committee, how can you look into the eyes of lawyers tomorrow, law professors, judges, I don't understand. If a judge or president of a court is to be dismissed, the Assembly and the MPs, as legal and legal bodies, must provide the following evidence: First, how many judges have that court. Second, which one of the judges works. Third, how many cases of criminal, litigation and outsiders have been seduced. How many solved cases of criminal, litigation and non-partisan, and how many unsolved criminal, litigation and non-parony cases, how many unsolved in the appeal proceedings before the second-degree court. You don't have any facts, so you have absolutely no gentlemen from the Justice Committee. This decision is embarrassing to me. Unfortunately, I have to say, because I've been a lawyer for many years, I've been working at the Republic Ministry and Mr Batic is telling stories, the arsonist who comes to tell on that TV and there's no TV where you won't see Batic lately threatening judges and prosecutors that he'll clean them all up. To open a beer bottle, you will see Mr. Batic on TV at night threatening the judges that they will all be resolved. Let those who have not worked according to the Constitution and the law be relieved. I've had objections to the work of certain courts, but this has to be determined and it's said that this and that judge have poor performance, there are many cases long run, there are many unsolved litigation cases, there are ten, 15 or twenty years of litigation. And that's why I concluded that it was the resolution of these four presidents of the courts for political reasons, because I don't understand how the Fifth Municipal Court works better than these three. I have concluded, from the presentation of the predecessors of the DOS, that it is a misdemeanor and, in the end, I am concerned that 28 judges, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are running from the court out of fear, 10 public prosecutors. That hasn't happened yet. That I was right, that this was a hack on our judiciary, also says that formerly dismissed Judge Miroslav Todorovic, right from DOS, made a statement to the "public" and "Blic" list the other day and said, "Real lists of similar and inappropriate". Todorovic does not hide that he is not happy with the first moves of the new government, which he says he has done many times, has risked his life several times. He turned his back on you because he saw you doing it backwards and worse than it was. It is such a state of justice, ladies and gentlemen, that it threatens the threat of the judiciary falling. The rule of law is your first sacrifice and justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u950	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, and after that, MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u951	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government in the refugee system, allow me to address you on this agenda. As you noticed, I don't go out for this pay phone without your program. I just want to prove that you keep lying and that you don't keep your promises. In the election campaign, you say - candidates for judges and presidents of the courts will establish a high court council, which 2/3 will make judges of the highest court and prominent law professors, and 1/3 representatives of the Assembly. Without the consent of the High Judicial Council, no judge will be able to be relieved of his duties. Why don't you wait to do it the way you're gonna do it? Why do you work on the same old principle that doesn't suit you? But regarding this item of the agenda, I must immediately tell you that I have no objection to the dismissal of any judge, any president of the court, if it is proved to have legal reasons. However, the Law on Courts in Article 17 provides that the Supreme Court is competent to determine the reasons for the termination of the court's office and the resolution of the judges and informs the National Assembly thereof, and that decision must be taken at the general session. In the light of this proposal, it states that the Committee on Justice, whose chairman, Prof. Dr. Dragor Hiber, has assessed that the situation in the legal system and the judiciary is objectively responsible for the President of the Court, and is in accordance with his jurisdiction as set out in Article 40. The law on courts, launched an initiative to resolve them. He referred these initiatives to the wrong address, us here in the Assembly, not the Supreme Court. Mr Hiber, please, you are expected to know the law, and what you do not know, this particular law on courts, at least to be used by it. The President of the Supreme Court is moving forward with the need for resolution, and the initiative to initiate the court's discharge procedure can be given by the President of the Court, directly to the High Court, the minister of justice and the competent authority in the National Assembly, so the Committee for Justice. That's all to clarify who you should have put up with that initiative. The initiative shall, among other things, be delivered together with the necessary information and evidence to the Supreme Court, which shall carry out the procedure, which shall determine whether there are reasons for the resolution and inform the National Assembly within 60 days of the date of its delivery. I mean, this assembly started working on a crisis system or according to the old one, I agree, here's the absent minister coming in, the cadiya's suing you, the cadiya's suing you. You're advocating verbally, but just verbally, for legality, and you're doing everything in your own way, which, of course, does not mean respect for the law. You're telling us about V.D. here. President of the Supreme Court. Who is this man? Who named him? You, Mr. Batic, said that about this pay phone, and Chad or Geda, here's what he said. He doesn't know who that man is. The D.A., I'm sorry. Our courts are impeccable. That's clear to all citizens. Everyone who's had any trial before the court can't boast that they finished it quickly. They're inefficient and citizens know it. According to your behaviour, we will continue to have what we had, and that is beyond doubt, judges who are unworthy of these functions. It is clear that we need this law on courts, which will allow us to quickly and effectively come to the desired justice before the courts, but first we here in the Assembly must respect the law and the legal procedure. We Serbian Radical Party MPs are not against the resolution of these judges, but we are always in favour of respect of the law and after determining individual responsibility, because that alone leads to the establishment of a rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u952	The word has a folk MP Dragan Colic, followed by MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a motion for a decision to put aside the decisions on judge resolutions. As an SRS MP, I believe the subject is very serious and should not be very smart to conclude the situation in the judiciary... Mr. MP, you've missed the agenda point. )......................................................................................................... to conclude that the situation in the judiciary is catastrophic and that judicial reform is necessary. It's very controversial to me, which is that this National Assembly has already made one decision of this kind, and now this assembly in this assembly wants to annul this decision, which the same institution has already made. More naturally learned from all this, that's the job for the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u954	Mr. Ambassador, we're at the sixth point, not the seventh.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u955	I'm talking about justice, I guess that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u956	About the justice situation? No, it's a concrete act.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u957	Be patient and you'll hear. DOS MPs, as well as their political option, have become accustomed to taking everyone for a chase, satisfied with their yet more revolutionary enthusiasm. They remind me a lot of young skiers. In my previous statement from this pay phone, I said that Zoran Djindjic's personality does not convince me that the government, with him at the helm, will succeed. I also cited reasons that support my opinion of him. Now I feel similarly about the Minister of Justice, Mr. Vladan Batic, and I hope that's on the agenda, but a little patience is all it takes. This proposal hides his character and work. I suppose, as a MP, I have the right to doubt. The rule of justice, morality, honor and honesty, should reign in our courts, and the person of the minister of justice should resemble all these listed traits, and there's nothing wrong with that, right? If the minister of justice walks into Galenika with an armed gang, with long pipes, then my conclusion is that judicial reform will be nothing, as a MP, I have the right to doubt. As well as your basic, democratic principles and norms. The judiciary, in the opinion and programme of us Serbian radicals, must be depolitized, without any influence of politics, without emotion and based on the Constitution and the laws of this country. Now it seems to me that there's a cleanup in the courts, and I'm guessing, Mr. President, that's the subject, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u958	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u959	As the communists used to do, no judge can be unless he's morally decent, so if he's still incompetent and blindly obedient, there's an ideal. No one knows you, except Vladan Batic, I assume. As MPs, we can suspect it, and we have the right to have personal interests here, with settlements of leftover debts in the light of lost court proceedings. You, Mr. Justice Minister, you said you had a high percentage of the cases received, and you had very few cases in court, so a small number of these cases greatly increase the percentage, because your percentage, as you say, is high. I don't mind. The quality of a judge is measurable in the context of his success in verdicts, in the number of judgments annulled by senior courts, and there are no unresolved disputes, even some 18 years. Politics should not be dragged into the justice system.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u960	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u961	There were times when we made sure that it was no good and no good. As a political option wins, it puts its morally similar judges at the expense of the quality of many honest and honorable people who honor their duty and are not members of any political party. Finally, I want to address a fellow MP from DOS who, before a few speakers here, decided by his criteria who is smart and who is not: "It's easy to teach animals, it's easy to learn dirty, but it's hard, it's extremely hard to learn who has become an untrained teacher to others."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u962	The word has a folk MP, Zarko Obradovic, and after that, MP Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u963	Dear President, respected fellow MPs and members of the government, the Serbian government's prime minister mentioned in his exposé that one of the goals the government will work on is to create an independent judiciary. However, he mentioned it in the context of independent media. According to the way the parliamentary majority is in the Assembly and the government has set out to realise this goal, so I can say that a politically controlled judiciary is being created depending on the executive authority and its demands. This also confirms the way the president is resolved by several courts and, of course, what could be heard, by the representatives of the executive authority to the judiciary and by judicial decisions. Why am I saying this? On the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, representatives of the SPS voted against the initiative and decision on the discharge of the duties of the chairman of the District, First, Third and Fourth Judges and the reasons for our position were contained in the light of the Committee's decision that we disagreed with. Namely, I call on the President of the Court for reasons of dispensation from the Court Act, Art. 29th century 4, and their responsibility for the court's up-to-date, efficient and real work, where the Committee has assessed the situation in the legal system and the judiciary as ugly, and the presidents of the courts are objectively responsible. Therefore, the Assembly was given a proposal for the replacement of people based on an extremely arbitrary assessment of the established situation in the legal system, in the judiciary, an assessment that was not documented at all. To date, no evidence, document or communication has been provided to the Assembly to support the assessment of the ugly situation in the judicial system. The same Article 29, lastly, found that the President of the Court could be resolved if the President's responsibility for non-execution of the court's affairs was determined. It is necessary to establish the responsibility of the President of the Court, which the Committee through this arbitrary assessment, as objective responsibilities, and has done. No qualitative or quantitative data to prove or determine the responsibility of the President of the Courts has been provided to the Committee and neither the Assembly. We could not hear, for example, how many cases were reported and cases done in those courts, nor could we hear how many judgments were abolished and amended from those referred to in the higher court. It would be a measure to assess the quality of the work of the President of the Courts and the element to determine their responsibility. We heard from Minister Batic one grade, when we discussed the Amnesty Law proposal, that the goal of the government and the Ministry is not to interfere in the work of the judicial authorities. A few days ago, his statement was read in the press, saying that we, i.e. So far, we've had no control over the judiciary and the police. We believe this is the way the President of the courts' resolution confirms his words. His words or relations with the judiciary and the justice system also confirm the assessment that Mr Batic made of one judicial decision of the Belgrade District Court and namely the decision of the Belgrade District Court, which, as you know, I do not repeat, has been sentenced to 14 leading Western countries for 20 years in prison for crimes during the NATO attack, and the minister of justice has said and I will now quote it: "We will propose a review of one court decision and the final decision depends only on the government." It was a court farce that we cannot go further, this is not only an unauthorized body dealing with this verdict, but a new judicial authority is also, apparently, the most important one, thinking of the government of the Republic of Serbia and giving an assessment of a court ruling that the minister had no right to. As justice minister, he can't comment on court decisions or say anything about a court case. Only the public prosecutor, the defendant and defender of the party in the proceedings can speak of a competent court ruling. Therefore, only a senior court and that committee can consider, comment on a court case and in the context of the complaint allegations. The minister should remain in his earlier position. The court ruling must be respected, whether she liked it or not. This statement by the minister of justice on one court decision shows what the minister thinks about the judiciary, and it is no wonder that the presidents of these several courts are being replaced in an illegal manner and that, of course, people are being arrested by the construction that was made for the arrest of Director Dragoljub Milanovic, director of RTS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u964	The People's Messenger Rodoljub Sabic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Nebojsa Lekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u965	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here are the gentlemen and ladies of the SRS and the SPS trying to... to present this as the adoption of an illegal decision. It is, of course, their right, if they are used in a document that is not acceptable to the arguments, which consists in quoting and interpreting certain provisions of the law outside the context. I don't think they've been able to convince anyone here, I don't think they've been able to convince the public. They were able to convince us that it was a rather confusing text... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: What is the topic, radicals? No, Mr. Nikolic, I'm talking about the subject, what were you talking about? You managed to convince us that it was a confusing text, which, of course, is not surprising... We want to assure you that most in this congregation will not do so. So, I'm talking about this decision being not by any chance illegal. Mr. Nikolic, while you're calling me, the problem is that you claim that a court president's resolution is legal only if a general session of the Supreme Court is declared. It's quite clear and obvious that's not true. The reasons for dispensing judges, I stress the judge, are set out in this law in Articles 46, paragraphs 1 to 4, and the reasons for the court's resolution are set out in a completely different chapter, in a completely different article. And now, of course, by referring to the provisions of this law concerning judges, as well as the president, you're trying to build a structure, but that's not true, because they refer to when the president is resolved and judge functions. This is not the case here, the story here will not be repeated that someone is taking bread, as it has been done in recent history, when a group of judges has been resolved for reasons that have nothing to do with incompetence, or the quality of work, etc., but has been resolved and not only that, but devoid of bread, because it belonged to its cefian association. In fact, the real reason was that they thought for themselves. But I assure you, Mr. Nikolic, and I believe that all of you who spoke sincerely meant what you were saying, that at that time you stood up for the Supreme Court's position, yes, yes, yes, I am commenting on your argument. However, in a completely different chapter of the law and a completely different member, the reasons for the president's resolution are provided. Now the central question is, what exactly does the Supreme Court do? Like any other state body, the Supreme Court can only do what the Constitution, law or, possibly, by means of a sublegal act, under its jurisdiction. Read the provision of the law which determines what the General Session of the Supreme Court does, and you will come to a clear conclusion. In fact, it only determines the existence of reasons to resolve the judge’s office, or judge. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So I think it's time we stopped sowing confusion and trying to represent that it's an illegal proposal under the pretext. So, this proposal is fully in line with the law and I stress - it does not by any chance question the judicial function of the people who will be relieved of their presidency. As far as I'm concerned, to answer that, and to finish, my colleague Gordana Pop-Lazic's observations about what it says in DOS, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't... We will certainly build a mechanism of selecting the holders of judicial functions that will depend much less on the holders of the executive and even the taking of political power, but we will therefore build what we have promised. Of course, when the time comes. That's why we need the law, and now we respect that law that you've passed. Here, I can read you a colleague. [[You can't hear a comment from the gym.]] I'm reading again what's the jurisdiction of the general session, so read it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u966	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u967	Here, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to apply an analog interpretation. If the predecessor convinces us that there is no point in the Rules of Procedure of the General Session of the Supreme Court - a motion for the resolution of the President of the Court, there is neither in the Committee on Justice nor in the management of the description of the matter. Read it in detail. He doesn't say he's making a motion to get the President of the Court off the hook. If he doesn't have a job description, he can't do it. If the Supreme Court can't do that, then neither can the Justice and Administration Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's the thing. You have to see it exactly the same, no matter what. To agree with you that it's not the Supreme Court's job, you agree with me that it's not the work of the Justice and Management Committee, then who will? And where will the President of the Court be justified? Where he will have the right to speak a word in his defense, to answer the charges. The Justice and Administration Committee has made accusations against the president of some courts. He says: sloppy, impeccable, chaos in courts, and we now have to believe the word. There is no way they have litigation, how many months of litigation is lags in that court, whether human relations are disrupted and whether crime has taken place, whether judges are taking bribes, whether they co-operate with lawyers, whether there is no evidence in the submission of the Justice and Management Committee. Only the president of the Committee says the situation in four municipal courts in the country is bad and therefore the presidents of the courts have to change. I know, you probably have the data, there are gentlemen here who decide the fate of the country, probably have the information that the presidents of these courts have been more politically engaged than they should or are not politically engaged the way you think they should, but everything should have some legal form. The president of a court in one city is one of the three or four most visible people. The president of Belgrade's municipal court is one of three, four of the most visible people. To discriminate against him, to disavow him, to change his status in court, give us some proof that he no longer deserves to be among the first four citizens. So, with so little evidence, really a man can't dare vote, so a few months before the election, I'm listening to the warnings of leaders and these more dangerous DOS judges have warned - don't judge any more, don't make any judgments. When we come to power, you will be responsible for the judgments you make. Could these court presidents have acted beyond their warning, past the DOS leader's warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u968	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u969	Ladies and gentlemen, I think I've made myself clear. I categorically said - the question of discharge from the office of the President of the Court is simply not in the jurisdiction of the General Session of the Supreme Court, because the provisions of the laws governing the jurisdiction of that general session are something else written. It's a dispensation from the judge's office, but it's not from the president's office. I repeat, it's about different reasons and there can be no dispute. And as for the question raised by counterpart Nikolic, so what can the Committee say, I said - jurisdiction is determined by law. Comrade Nikolic, you may be right when you talk about the Rules of Procedure, but look at Rule 40. The law on courts, so you'll see that the Committee is in charge of these cases. Please read it. Do you want me to read it? (Read member.) (Glasses - to whom? ( b) The congregation. Whoever sets it up, gentlemen, there's no one else. The one who sets it up. Since there's no competent authority, then whoever sets it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u970	The word is from the People's MP Nebojsa Lekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u971	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I have to read one thing from the Rules of Procedure and say that Mr. Nikolic was wrong about the jurisdiction of the Justice and Administration Committee. This committee is responsible for both the shift and the proposal of the President of the Courts, and I will read the provision (read the provision). So, the Justice Committee is absolutely competent to perform this function as well. It is less important, since everything here is certainly done by law, but there is one thing that we will all agree on for sure, that the situation in the Serbian judiciary is disastrous and that we urgently need to bring order to justice, along with these changes in the Ministry of the Interior, we simply have to bring all these people who brought this country to the last place in Europe to justice. What Mr. Jojic was saying, that there were no objections to the work of the President of the First Municipal Court, here, Mr. Nicic, the MP of DOS, at the First Court of Justice in 1995, six years ago means, he filed a case for compensation against the state of Serbia, and here, six years to today, it was not launched at all. (Glasses -- that's why you're replacing him. ) We do not replace him because of this, but I am talking about what problems the courts face and what problems the courts face. But that's not the point either. Since everyone here is full of the mouth of an independent judiciary, and since I am a nine-year member of the Justice Committee, even for a time I have had the honor and responsibility to be president of the Justice Committee, until I was normally replaced because I opposed the way of the election only by a party principle. Namely, since JUL's arrival in the government and after another coalition partner, and this time I won't mention it, clean partying has begun in the selection of judicial officials and public prosecutorial functions. Maltenes were certain quotas, so they say - the SPS has 30% of judges, the JUL has 40% of judges and they have 20% of judges. We all know well in Serbia by the courts of which one is fit and whom the party has placed in certain places. It's precisely for the reason we can't implement the decisions they're asked to make. We could see it best when people applied to certain places, so, let's say, the lawyer in Lazarevec applied for a criminal judge, and we had a hand on the heart, and cases like that, because people, members of certain parties that I mentioned, didn't quite understand what a party quota meant, so we had the opportunity to have car mechanics come to us to be judges. Please, we've been getting such suggestions on the board. But well, everyone interprets in their own way the right to be a judge. About the public prosecutor's office, I also objected to the illegal shift of the Republic Public Prosecutor, Mr. Petkovic, and I continued to oppose it, and I was also removed because we had a situation at Tara's counseling counseling to come out one general police officer and criticise the state's or the Republic Public Prosecutor - why not some people will arrest because they would want it. We were probably the only country in the world where the MUP determined the work of the prosecution, and in all normal and legal countries in the world it is clear that the prosecution is assessing the work of the MUP. And there's a lot of cases like that. In the end, you know very well that litigation, or criminal prosecutions based on phone calls, began to take place in Serbia and that simply what happened had to happen. I know there are a lot of lawyers here who want to become really big lawyers and like to be lawyers, but some things I really don't understand. Don't doubt the Justice Committee either, because there really are a lot of prominent experts and lawyers sitting there, don't doubt the government of the Republic of Serbia, because it certainly won't make mistakes made by the previous government and certainly won't make mistakes for which the people, as it did on 24 September and 23 December, gave the two-thirds majority confidence in the Democratic opposition to Serbia. Just be sure that we will respect both justice and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u972	The word has a folk MP Tomislav Nikolic (replic).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u973	Ladies and gentlemen, I feel called only because of my name mentioned, but Mr. Lekovic, the time you're talking about, the time you mentioned, where you were the chairman of the Justice and Management Committee, and in which the reports of auto mechanics arrived, was the time you were in power with JUL in 1994, 1995, 1996 and 1997. It is the time when JUL entered the government of the Republic of Serbia and, along with New Democracy and the SPS, exercised power. When you accuse behaviour at the time, don't call me because that behavior helped me to be in prison, Mr. Lekovic, because Zarko Jokanovic was the chairman of the Administrative Committee, who decided at night at two o'clock that I was in Gjilan in prison. You did not recall asking thee judges for transgressions, who gave you the right to arrest and to judge, and to ask the police, who gave you the right to arrest, and the judges, who gave you the right to judge the messengers of the people? What do you now laminate over the time in which you have decided everything in this Serbia? You're talking about the quotas for the judges you've been working on. It was SPS, JUL and New Democracy. Where did the radicals come from? You were never the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee when the radicals were in the government. You weren't even an MP when the radicals were in the government. What are you talking about, Mr. Lekovic? Co-operation with JUL? Well, that's your co-operation with JUL, in the choice of judges, setting up prosecutors and arresting them on the phone, and whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u974	Nebojsa Lekovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u975	The board of administrative issues, which Mr Nikolic mentions, was and then worked all by law and the best evidence was the presentation of my predecessor. I'm saying that this auto mechanic, who volunteered for the judge's competition, was a member of the Serbian Radical Party. But it doesn't matter. There's one more thing I forgot to say - how the judges were being set up. The last word was state security. The representatives of these three parties sat down, and when they agree to the list, then they call a man of national security, who comes and watches -- who's a patriot, and who's a traitor, and then--he can't, he can't, he's walking, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, etc. And that's how judges and prosecutors in Serbia were determined. I've just been removed from this responsible function because I objected to that way. Everyone knows what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u976	He has the word of MP Petar Jojic, who has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u977	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would understand everything if I had not been able to find out directly about Mr Lekovic's co-operation with former judicial executives and some of the Justice Department, in which he was very well informed. He was the choice of judges and public prosecutors in 1998, I don't think that Mr. Lekovic was the unknown thing, and he confirmed it today, but I know that his relationship was very agile in this selection and selection. I must say, I was surprised at what speed it was -- with Šuvakovic and the others -- who's going to be on the list for the election of judges and prosecutors. I was an opponent of such lists at the Ministry, but I was also ignored by the JULs, and unfortunately, those here sitting in the SPS, too, so they say, that's our thing. However, I would return to the conclusion of Mr. Lekovic, who says the Justice Committee has found that there are reasons for resolving the president of the courts. Now, Mr. Lekovic, give this evidence, that we believe you didn't make it up and it's not a lie. Please, you must go out for a pay phone in this assembly and you must provide the MPs with evidence that any working group, whether it is any other informal authority, is determined to say, please, for each individual president of the court - which is why it should be resolved. And secondly, let me tell you, this law is equally applied. Mr. Minister, pay attention, and you are well aware that there is a large role in the election of the collective and the Ministry of Justice. They establish proposals, and the decisive role for the selection of judicial officers belongs to Parliament, if you agree. Secondly, in the discharge of courts, i.e. judges, the president of courts and public prosecutors, the ministry has no great authority. These powers belong to the Supreme Court, and finally to Parliament. The law is equally applied to court presidents when it comes to resolution. So there must be an initiative from the Supreme Court, not a general session, as you advocate, because you're mixing these two things. In which case, the Supreme Court shall decide at the General Session - if abuse is in function. However, it is not necessary when it comes to a resolution because of a bad and ugly state, which you say exists, and I don't believe it, because you have to provide evidence, you've been obliged to tell the MPs -- solved, pending cases, an unsuspecting state, litigation being conducted for 30 years. I'll just say one more sentence. Tell me how many lawsuits there are in the Fifth Municipal Court, which have been conducted for over 10 years, and how many in the First, Third, Fourth and Second. Secondly, it is not clear to me that only four of the presidents of the municipal courts are being resolved. What about the other 138? I conclude you don't touch them. You just picked and shot those closest to you and bothered the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u978	He has the word Mr. Lekovic. If we can finish this replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u979	Dear gentlemen, I am once again talking about proof. The evidence is just alive, there is a National MP, Bosko Nicic. So it's about his case directly. You can talk to him if you don't believe. I can't tell you the evidence anymore, because I don't think you understand. Then we'll schedule some counseling on it, and we'll get that straight. But it doesn't matter. So, for all the nine years I've been a member of the Justice Committee, there's never been a general session of the Supreme Court. This can be confirmed by MPs who were members of the Justice Committee, when we resolved either of them or elected the President of the Court. So that's absolutely true and absolutely true. As for these remarks about Mr. Jojic, we all know well that Mr. Jojic left a big seal while he was deputy minister of justice of the Republic of Serbia. He's famous for breaking into the judges' offices, picking out their drawers and watching what they do, what they have on their drawers, whether they're hiding something, listing their car numbers, where they park. The other thing is, you all know very well that Mr. Jojic, before he became a lawyer, worked for a long time in the police department. For some strange reasons, he was fired from there. If I didn't say a lot more than I know, it wouldn't be nice. But if you call me, I'll say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u980	Replica, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u981	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I really didn't want to get involved in the discussion of representatives of the two parties now trading for a pay phone. But in the end I have to, I mean in the interest of what's on the agenda. First, I want to tell you that I have an estimate that we are missing 126 in the O.R. and that we should check the quorum. As far as the government of the Republic of Serbia, if anyone carried a job and worked with all its strength in the RS government, they were socialists, in many critical portfolios. It is also true that New Democracy was in the government of the RS. It's also true that we worked with the SRS. What we did, we're sure we did it right. It is natural and normal that the parties that entered the coalition with the SPS wanted all places on all boards, etc. to set up their own men. However, I would ask that we leave these past times, because today we have a very serious thing here. A very serious thing, which, I would like to remind you, is here by someone's will by the Justice Committee, without the consent of the Supreme Court President, without many of the actions that the Law on Courts provides, it proposes the resolution of the President of the District Court and more of the President of the Municipal Courts. Our assessment is that it's another demonstration of exactly what they're trying to, in a historical sense, stick to the SPS. I'm convinced deep down, all the choices that continue to go on will surely go according to the will of the DOS parties. I'm sure because of the trickling that goes through the media, the courts will be addicted, political processes will be mounted, and witnesses and false evidence that I'm not even talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u982	Replica, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u983	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected Mr Lekovic to say that I advocated the urgency and efficiency of the work of the courts in Serbia. It is true that I went to the courts and asked to establish the situation, that I even issued a warrant for the justice ministry to deliver the number of resolved and pending cases, because a large number of citizens were dissatisfied with the urgency and ineffectiveness of the judiciary. Therefore, it would be good today if the Justice Committee came to the Republic Assembly and said - we have such a situation in the next courts, in all courts one picture and opportunity, and then to carry out the selection and tell - due to the poor condition, because so many cases have not been solved, cases 10, 15, 20 are being held, and Minister Batic knows, even 30 years of litigation are being conducted. That's why I got into the courts. You'll agree that my commitment was to raise the efficiency of the judiciary to a higher level. I don't mind getting rid of those who aren't efficient, who aren't professional, who aren't up-to-date. They have nothing to seek, on any basis, in the judiciary. I expect the new Minister and the Justice Committee to make sure in this direction that those who did not deserve to be in the judiciary and to deal with the judiciary not to enter the judiciary and that whoever graduated from law school and passed a professional exam immediately becomes a judge who pronounced 15, 20 years in prison. In England, the judge becomes 50, and the Court of Appeal in 60. Until then, that judge takes the stairs down the stairs, gets schooled and perfected. So, Mr. Lekovic, I didn't go in there because I had no other reason, I didn't run anything, and I didn't want to intervene anywhere. In some things, I know you've been against some things, too. But now I'm afraid of things, I'm afraid of rematchism. That's what he can worry about. I hope that the minister and the new leadership in the Supreme Court will pay more attention to the calming tensions, that people do not have to think today and be concerned about their existence. Those who have earned, let them go out of court, let them deal with some other court, and let's give this majority, and by my assessment, most of the people in the judiciary are fair and fair, and that's not the way to go about it. I'm not happy, here's why. I'm not happy just because you fired four and chose four courts. I know what the situation is in many other courts. So if you looked at the whole thing and you went out here with the whole thing, but it's a partial eye sting, so now it can be concluded -- here, this is done for political reasons. And leaving the police, that doesn't matter, I left on my own request. So, you don't have to deal with it, it's not yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u984	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. (Employee: Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u985	The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been broken in Article 84.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u986	Mr. Nikolic, Jojic, Lekovic, I ask you to continue the discussion at the buffet, if you have needs, and leave us here to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u987	According to the monitor records, DOS is missing about a hundred MPs. So I would ask the chairman to establish the quorum or to take a break until the MPs are gathered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u988	The break is supposed to be like that. You noticed I didn't call the next speaker. If you allow the appointed MP to speak, let us not now determine the quorum, and the break is scheduled after its exposure. I didn't invite the next one. Here you go. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u989	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, from the position of the MP elected from the DOS list, I will defend the proposal that is before us and repeat that there is both a constitutional basis and a legal justification for the motion for discharge from the office of the President of the Court of Justice. The rest of the material of this point, which we have in a single search, are personal requests for the resolution of judicial functions or functions in the judicial administration, and the resolution of functions due to the legal conditions that have been acquired for retirement. What is my obligation as an MP representing the assembly majority in this House is to explain the reasons why such a item of the agenda now, why such a legislative proposal is before you now and to comment on the challenge of the content of the resolution proposal that is before you. About motives a few sentences, about ease of use and abuse of the public, institutions of the state. When you start using hate speech with ease in one country, when you easily start harassing anyone who thinks differently and feels that you have a deep right to insult them, to call them different names, and in that name, to abuse the institutions of the same state, then you have a very big problem. This very big problem lies before all of us MPs together in this congregation, in front of all of us 250. We have a problem with the culture of communication, we have a problem with decent communication, we have a problem with lack of ethics, morals, a lack of spirit of this people, who is bright and vital and loves to laugh, but knows the measure. There are as many topics as there are left in this congregation, and there are serious decisions that this political group needs to make. We are politicians and we make decisions that produce consequences for other people's lives and according to that, and the responsibility that that tone of decision carries with it, we should also act. Once you've legalized something that's rude, boastful and irresponsible in public words and public life, then you're the principles of an institution of society, you're the principles of courts, you're the principles of banks, you're the principles of the police, you're the principles of the military, you're the principles of everything that the people, organized in one state, should believe. There is no way to disrupt any rudeness and aggression of what I feel and think and what I intend to say, because I know and I am deeply convinced that any aggression is an expression and a childhood fear and uncertainty of something that is true, and I am always kind to something that is fear and uncertainty. So there is a motive for what should be resolutions, which should be new personal solutions, which are not on the agenda today, but it is the order for the people who are looking at us to understand in all this galatias to jump, the impressions of a hard Serbian spirit and something that still reminds us of a political hate speech, that the people who are looking at us understand what we are doing here, that the people understand that a group of MPs want at all costs to prevent a new spirit from happening in Serbia and that changes happen in Serbia. It is the right of that group of MPs, a legal right, because there is a political interest there, but also that another group of MPs must show a decent, clear and resolved final determination to make changes in this country. Whether this will begin with an explanation for the resolution of the president of courts and other functions in the judicial administration, in the way that the Assembly Committee on Justice has done or at another extraordinary session there will be another topic, it is up to us to propose to you and to make it clear to the people that we will not give up, that there will be order and that decent policies, responsible policies in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u990	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the right to take your word for it one more time, and I'm going to speak very briefly. I'm encouraged by this ballad. The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group as its goal sets out to prevent Mrs. Comic, Mr. Canka and the other like-minded from Serbia, and to do so, we will use all kinds of vocabulary and all sorts of procedures.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u991	I am reporting to spend another joint of our three grenades on replicas because the name is mentioned in order to produce fear with the people of Serbia, so I am participating in something called the secession of Vojvodina. By my name and last name, as I am, I claim to my family living in Vojvodina, by their overseas origin, by their party's programme and by the clear rules of the coalition agreement within the DOS that there will never be any secession of the Vojvodina from what is the common territory of the Serbian state will be, and there will be no production of fear on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u992	By my name and by the party I belong to, I claim you're lying, Mrs. Comic...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u993	Mr. Nikolic, watch your language.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u994	I could say you're not telling the truth, but in the Serbian dictionary it's idioms and why I choose the word I'm going to use when this is a nice Serbian word. Everyone knows her, everyone uses her, doesn't insult anyone, as it would offend you to say you're not telling the truth. What makes the Vojvodina Assembly, run by Mr. Canak and Mrs. Comic, convinces me that Mrs. Comic has told a lie about this speaker. You applaud, but what is done in Vojvodina looks like the beginning that was still in Slovenia. What seems to be in Vojvodina, this assembly tomorrow, which will be attended by two other prime ministers, the Prime Minister of Serbia and the Prime Minister of Montenegro, visits to Croatia, statements by Mr Canka, of whom you have not fenced, convinces me that you are cooking in Vojvodina and that is evident. I've watched a show on J.F.O. TV, in which you've given me the right to go out for a pay phone today and say this. I can play a nice man now, stare in front of that fact, pretend I can't see anything, say yes, you're wonderful, you're the mother of four children, you'll never influence the secession because you're an overdrive Serb, but you can't convince me of anything anymore. I also have Serbs from Šumadija who are not good, who are not good, and Serbs from Krajina who are bad, I have Croats in Serbia who are rolling, I no longer look at the origins, but I see whether they are good, what their intentions are and what their education is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u995	If we're done with this circle of replicas, I suggest we continue our work in an hour and a half, so 15 hours and 10 minutes. I don't know if the representatives of the parliamentary groups have been given invitations for a shorter meeting. If not, please make a shorter meeting on the first floor, now. [[After a break.]] Before we begin work, to determine the quorum please insert your cards. I ask the service to call the MPs to enter the O.R. if there's anyone outside this room. Obviously, the quorum exists, but the MPs didn't insert the cards, so please do. I find that we have a quorum for work and decision-making. Before we continue the debate under the agenda we are discussing, as well as in the context of a single review of the proposed decisions on the termination of functions and resolution of the holders of judicial functions, I would like to inform you that a meeting of the presidents and vice-presidents of the National Assembly with the presidents of Parliament groups at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was held in the session, and with the participation of the works of the MPs from Kosovo and Metohija. The meeting was not attended only by representatives of the SRS. A statement has been agreed, which I will now read to you. A statement by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia reads: "Armed attacks by Albanian terrorists on Serb animals - old people, women and children in Strpce, in Zubin Potok municipality, the village of Klokot in the municipality of Kosovo Vitina and the village of Cernica in the municipality of Gjilana - carried out yesterday, on February 13th, caused an indignation by the MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly. In these attacks, in just one day, one life has been extinguished forever, and eight people have been wounded. Such attacks have been going on for two years and there is justifiable fear that they will continue. We are asking the United Nations, KFOR and UNMIK peacekeeping forces to meet the obligations set by UN Resolution 1244 and the Kumanovski Agreement to carry out the disarmament, to find all indictees of crimes against Serbs, protect human lives and provide basic preconditions for normalising opportunities in Kosovo and Metohija and South Serbia. A unilateral agreement on expanding the confidence zone, signed between Albanians and top KFOR and UNMIK officials, is unacceptable, as it threatens the survival of Serbs in Kosovo Mitrovica and could lead to a new wave of violence and unrest. According to experience, the confidence zone is becoming an ethnic cleansing zone for the Serbian and non-Albanian populations, which must be stopped urgently. Representatives of the international community are obliged to provide conditions for the return to Kosovo and the Metohija of all who have been exiled from there. "This is informative, so this is a statement by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and this is the agreement agreed by representatives of DOS, SPS and the SS. We can continue to work on the agenda, as we have begun. We broke up at the time when it was time for the word to be given to MP Branko Pavlovic, followed by MP Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u997	Ladies and gentlemen, this debate has been concentrated, when we look at the content reports we have heard so far on the proposal of the Justice and Administration Committee at two points. One is that no legal procedure is respected, and the other is that there is a danger of intruding to the judiciary on the side. I will show you in my discussion that both of these remarks are unfounded. As for the legal procedure, when it comes to administrative functions in the judiciary, and not when it comes to the continuity of the judicial office, there is no jurisdiction in either the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia or the general session of the Supreme Court of Serbia. What you've heard here today, calling on many members, is the development of the constitutional principle of the constitutionality of the judicial function. This has been further and further consistently implemented in law, but does not apply to the presidents of the courts. That the presidents of the courts are outside of this regulation, it is best seen by their limited choice. There is a possibility of reelection, or the choice of someone else. It is quite clear, only by example, that if the term of office of four years expires, there is no need for any session, a general session of the Supreme Court of Serbia, in order for someone to be extended to another four years. No, I don't. The National Assembly itself knows that on a proposal from this same committee, it makes any decision it wants. That is one of the additional reasons that points to the fact that there is no jurisdiction in the Serbian Supreme Court in this case. Secondly, when you look at the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Supreme Court of Serbia, which even further regulates this whole procedure, you will see in it that there is also not a single provision that would apply and regulate this jurisdiction when it comes to the presidents of the courts. Therefore, with this systematic interpretation, it is clear that no legal procedure has been violated in this case. It has been questioned, in the context of these remarks on the procedure, and the jurisdiction of this committee itself. It's the exclusive right of this committee and he's the only one who's competent to propose such proposals as he did. It says in the Law of Courts, it says in Article 40, absolutely. Therefore, it also says in our Rules of Procedure, and this has already been said by Mr. Sabic, that part has already been worked out. I just wanted to bring you closer to the re-election and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Supreme Court of Serbia and to supplement that. There is a suspicion that the Ministry is intruding in the work of the Justice and Administration Committee, whose member I am, and I categorically claim that this is not true. If you're talking to Mr. Batic, that he's doing something, then you're going to the wrong address, because this board of justice and management is carrying all the responsibility for the proposals. If something's wrong, or if it's good, criticism and merits only go to our expense. This dossing majority here in the Assembly will establish a real relationship between the executive and the legislative authorities right through the control of work on the assembly committees. The question arises about the danger of influence on the part of the judiciary. The problem's in the next one. The situation in the judiciary, as we found him, is that he can't regenerate himself and that's possible then that would mean that this state system is basically good, he just needs some little corrections. It is a completely different situation and the citizens have clearly recognized that in the judiciary, as in the whole of society, fundamentally wrong and that essential changes are needed. That is why it was voted on September 24th and December 23rd as the total vote was voted, and that is why this foreign influence is necessary at the moment, because the judiciary cannot pull itself out to become functional, capable of really leading forward human policy. So our ambition is that even at this point, that cut should enable him to continue to work autonomously and in the way that the judiciary should work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u998	The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Goran Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u999	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Batic, he's gone, the government in exile, Mr. Chairman, please without swearing or perhaps you haven't heard. It becomes clear to everyone why this agenda item is right behind the repeal of the Public Information Act. Namely, the Information Act is only lawyers, and Mr Batic was a lawyer, in the interest of his clients, unpunished to lie and deceive in the professional work of law enforcement. Since you are being abolished by the Law of Informing that privilege, the law must be abolished in order to maintain that privilege that you seem to need as a minister of justice. The privilege you used. Is it normal for lying not to be sanctioned even if they were the minister of justice? You said this was about Mr. Batic, we'll give him a stenogram, it doesn't matter what's not there, you said you've won all the disputes so far, so answer me what you got for ironing paper in the Maces privatisation?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1000	Mr. Janjic, I ask you to concentrate and stick to the questions that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1001	Mr. Lekovic, if I may have him, he was there, you mentioned all the mechanics in a negative context, and when the mechanic hits you with legal parameters, it won't be worth much, so you're going to triple a lot. Another question for the minister of justice, Mr. Batic, we know how to disintegrate...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1002	Mr Janjic, on the agenda are not parliamentary issues, but a debate on the proposed act. I beg you, for the second time, I warn you to stick to the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1003	He needs to explain something to me, and I can't help it. So, we know how the EPS system is falling apart, but can you explain to us how the PTT system of Surdulice fell apart the night I mentioned "The Cat" and mentioned you?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1004	Are you done?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1005	No, I didn't. It's just work. What does the government do and who can do something concrete about a statement we just heard? I'm waiting for the president to calm you down. Mr. Chairman, do you have an instrument to appease the MPs?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1006	Mr. MP, I don't know what instruments you mean.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1007	Mr. Chairman, read today's Policy and you'll make sure that yesterday I was telling the truth from this pay phone without telling the truth about your official announcements you've been reading, because yet some reporter is kidnapping your control and telling the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1008	If that was all, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1009	Mr. President, you've injured Article 102. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states among other things: "In the course of the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not permitted to throw away, or interfere with speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that threatens... (here you come and talk, you're a punk, look)... freedom of speech." Mrs. Komic just gave a very moving and nice lecture on the culture of behavior in this assembly, and you could have held it on your MP club.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1010	Does this have anything to do with it? Do you want to read it? In Article 102, point 1 states: "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda". Of the numerous warnings by the MP, Mr Janjic, to start talking about the item on the agenda, I have not been able to warn the MPs who really opposed the Rules of Procedure for the same thing. Are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1011	I'm not satisfied.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1012	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1013	Mrs. Comic didn't talk about the agenda either, but she gave us a moral lecture on obstruction, and she forgot how we wore 70kg of their amendments in this assembly, and they picked themselves up and left the gym for days, and we discussed their amendments. It wasn't obstruction. But using a congregation pay phone to say what is thought is obstruction. I've never heard that definition before.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1014	Since you are not satisfied with my explanation, I will put you to the vote, but I ask you to react to the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the future. This violation was two hours ago and I hope... Mrs. Comic spoke about two hours ago... Then why do you mention her? [[Comments are not heard]] From two hours ago? Thank you, I didn't understand. I didn't know it took you so long to determine the violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm asking you to speed it up a little bit in the future. I would like to vote against the MP's objection that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to set up a quorum to place their cards in MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I ask the MPs to cast a vote of pressure on the appropriate taster on whether the Rules of Procedure have been broken. For 24, against 116, one abstained, not voting 11, a total of 152 MPs were present. I understand there's been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1015	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will all agree that it is necessary to transform the legal system, the principles of strict independence of the courts and to form a single judicial institution. What matters most in the judiciary is exactly an independent judiciary. We'll agree for sure that the judiciary wasn't independent in the past. Dr Vojislav Seselj once said that all the waters of Danube and Sava should pass through all the courts of Serbia and hardly be able to wash away all the injustices that were in these courts. It's a notorious fact, but it's also a notorious fact that the judiciary needs to be independent, and the question is whether it will be in the future. Justice Minister Vladan Batic, as I could hear from my predecessors, says most of the court disputes at the trials have been lost. Does this mean that he should replace all the judges who participated in these processes? We're assuming not. I will quote only the federal MP, Mr Ivan Novkovic of Leskovec, who is otherwise a member of the Democratic Party and a member of the Democratic Party's General Committee: "The meetings of the local DOS are long and inefficient, there is an unsustainable rush of individuals to obtain certain personal benefits, such as the political arrangement of Mr Slobodan Mitrovica - Belogo, whose efforts so far have had an adverse impact on the reputation and political course of DOS. Despite the shift... ", (speaks - theme) and how it has to do with the subject. "Despite the shift from the post of head of the DOS parliamentary group, he is pushing for a candidate for the SUP chief, a politically committed officer, Miodrag Jovic." By the way, Miodrag Jovic is from JUL's ranks. His personal accession was signed by Democratic Party President, Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. That is why it is no wonder that in any case, JUL slowly disappears from the political scene, as JUL representatives slowly move on to DOS lines. Mr. Slobodan Mitrovica - Beli responds that he is not Zika Zmigavac, that Novkovic is building a political career for him. If I was deceived by some facts, then I was...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1016	Mr. Ambassador, please move to the topic of this agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1017	In any case, Mr. President, and how does this matter, because first we're talking about the judiciary, and secondly, as you know, the judiciary, the minister of the judiciary and the minister of the interior, and how they're in the way. And I will also mention to you the fact that Mr. Novkovic is just forcing the judge of the municipal court, Mr. Zoran Stojanović, and this is about the man who ruled the dispute between Žika Zmigavac and Novkovic in Novković's favour. That Novkovic's accusations are immoral, hypocritical, because Novkovic is running for judge Stojanovic out of personal interest. That's what the head of the DOS committee group in Leskovac says. It is not our opinion, the opinion of the SRS, although we do not differ in that opinion and in that regard, I'm just saying what yours think of you. Could there be an independent judiciary in this situation, and on such occasions we can expect the following trials and trials to be the way they should be?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1018	Replica, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this pay phone is mostly about lies, lies, which speak much more about those who use this place in such a way than about those they allegedly refer to. However, mentioning JUL in the context of the Democratic Party is much more than a personal insult to us and I am taking this opportunity to resolutely deny... Serbian Radical Party MPs and to remind him that although under the resignation, his party's leadership for more than two years was the Yugoslav left's coalition partner.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1020	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, whether it's a lie or true - it can first of all be confirmed by the young DOS MPs from Leskovec, and you can see now how much your word - revolutionaries and reformers are worth, you can see the open letter from the Jablani County, from Mr Ivan Novkovic, and... Stepanović. I was just quoting. Ah, here's the head of the DOS Group of MPs of this newspaper, so let's check it out for himself (gives him a newspaper).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1022	Here's a word from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1023	Don't say that. It's never boring here, gentlemen. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, esteemed journalists, before I speak very specifically about the subject, I find that there are always hundreds of MPs missing from the National Assembly. That's important. And I also want to say that mostly, except for the constitutional session, there are never more than 130 to 150 MPs in the hall. And now about what we're talking about here. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Balša Govedarica, President of the Supreme Court, sent the following letter: "By requiring the SPS to resign Serbia's Supreme Court President, I point out that, under the Constitution and the Law on Courts, political parties cannot be the bearers of an initiative to dismiss the President of the Court, nor the request for his resignation, because it primarily belongs to the bodies of the National Assembly. This is an expression of the constitutional principle of independence and independence of the judicial authority. Nevertheless, there has been a clear warning that the government will leave and prevent the work of newly formed state authorities, which so far represents an unrecorded view of pressure on the independence and independence of the judicial authority. For these reasons, and not out of guilt and responsibility, I apply to the National Assembly for discharge from the office of the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, with a previous assessment of my work and the achievement of the role of the judicial authority, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on Courts. - October 31, 2000 - Balša Bovinarica." So, gentlemen, that's the story from the beginning of today's session. It is clearly spoken here about why and based on what pressures the Supreme Court president is offering to resign. Mr. Balsha Bevetarica comes from one of the most frequent Herzegovina families and in his life he has done everything necessary to gain a reputation and that reputation will not spoil any of the MPs who throws me here today. With regard to Mr. Minister's claim, I would really like to join those MPs who rightly pray that in the ministerial benches, while the sitting takes place, there is at least one, now there is not one minister in our hall. So, on the basis of the claim made by Mr Batic here this morning, that there will be no election of judges by party membership, I would like to inform you, gentlemen of the MPs, that several days ago the DOS presidency in Cačka gave the following statement -- that Mr Srecko Mihajlovic, a lawyer from Cacca, the current chairman of the Democratic Party of Serbia's municipal committee, will be proposed for the President of the District Court in Cačka. So far, the President of the District Court, Mr Veroljub Raketic, has probably just resented the fact that as chairman of the council, he has delivered judgments to those you amnesty - Clinton, Vedrina and others. That's the story of independent courts, and that's the story that there will be no choice by party membership. If we weren't fooling ourselves, every government in principle is doing what they think it's supposed to do, just don't tell us here that it's not doing it. That's obvious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1024	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1025	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, today we are making a decision on the resolution and replacement of the five Presidents of the Court. We're making a decision to replace them without any evidence. There's no evidence. The students of law are clear, it should not be a great lawyer, that a flagrant violation of the Law on Courts, that the Constitution has been violated. Because if you're replacing someone on a heavy charge of nelado, negligentness, reporting in court, then there's got to be a bunch of evidence before the Justice Committee, as the law predicted, from the judges to the President of the Supreme Court. It's clear to everyone. It's clear to the little kids, too. It's clear why others do it. I understand with Mr. Batic, he broke the law a thousand times... (unreadable words) arrests and links around television and public information. I don't get it for Mr. Hiber, an eminent lawyer, a professor, who put his ethics, both legal and professorly, in the service of politics. Mr Hiber, I am speaking to you, you signed the report, you signed a motion for a judge's shift, without evidence, breaking the law, and you signed the next item of the agenda, asking for the return of the judges that the former Assembly has resolved, because there is no procedure, or no opinion of the Supreme Court. Therefore, it is clear to judge what it is. I think it's a cheap sale of ethics and professions, and you'll be asked by students, you'll be asked by fellow lawyers at counseling -- you don't have any proof of what it says in the material. I'd be happy to see, and it wasn't hard, gentlemen, to get evidence. It's very simple. The situation in courts is such that for each municipal court, it can be written that there are 1,000 pending cases, that there are hundreds of pending lawsuits, and that is enough reason for the president to be replaced. Gentlemen, the reason is quite different, you sacrifice and the professor, you sacrifice these young colleagues who climb up here, I watch them red, talk about re-election of judges, talk about certain things, try to say something that can't be proved. There's only one reason. You could have prepared all of this, so that this agenda item takes five minutes, with all the data, to write the opinion of the Supreme Court, the rapporteur judges -- in the First Municipal Court, there are so many cases, so many and so many litigation cases, so many judges or presidents are wanted. It would be a job very easy and simple and we would all vote for it. However, the reason is this - Mr Batic and some with him want to send a clear and unequivocal message around the heads of these judges, about the old presidents of the courts and judges in Serbia - gentlemen, Batic can do anything, gentlemen, DOS can do anything, be careful what you do. Keep up the good work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1026	He has the word National MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's opposition has complained about the procedure. Thus, a significant member of the former regime and former member of the government of universal destruction boasted that he was in Tanzania. Too bad he didn't stay there. He complains about the procedure, and let him say what the opposition procedure was like in the last term. We of the Vojvodina Coalition know their procedure well. When we went out for a pay phone, we had to skip our legs. Furthermore, for the laws we have submitted, the Rules of Procedure say they must be on the agenda within 60 days, extremely, the deadlines may be extended for no longer than 30 days. We proposed an information law two years ago. He wasn't on the agenda until today. If a new government hadn't come, it wouldn't have been on the agenda. So much for procedure. Since the judges, the courts are on the agenda, I must say that we at the Vojvodina Coalition share a slight disappointment of citizens, not because the judges are changing. We believe, and the citizens believe, that a little bit of the judge is changing. It needs to change more. We witnessed how they did it. I'm not for us to do the same to them. I'm that we respect their rights, but they have to respect our rights, too, because we won the elections. They were changing judges like this -- on the Justice Committee, they say -- the judge from the municipal court was seen at the UN opposition's rally in Serbia, and it is considered to be a member of a political party, which is incompatible with the judge's office and that is why the judge cannot be a judge. It's incompatible with the judge's office, and that's why that judge can't be a judge. One judge was disfellowshipped because he was a member of the Association of Citizens of the G17. It's incompatible with the judge's office. The Association of Citizens is believed to have been a political party. That's how they did it. Today they're complaining about the procedure, today they're complaining about everything. A member of another political party from the government of general national ruin is the bravest man in the world. Not because he's not afraid of anything, but because he's not ashamed of anything. He said he wasn't sorry because someone was dead. Our courts didn't do it right, and that's why all judges need to be changed. Here in this assembly, the president of that party said the following -- we don't have time to investigate what happened to Curuvia. The government that didn't investigate is responsible and guilty. That government is a place in prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1028	Please return to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1029	I'm on the agenda. That's why all judges need to be changed, because you don't belong in parliament. The vast majority is a place in prison. If Mr Batic were here, I would suggest that we introduce a new criminal measure, and that's socially beneficial work, so that we lock these former mines on level five -- community service, so when we think of the numbers and the codes, let them know that we open the door for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1030	It's not true that any of us have ever said that the government doesn't have time to investigate any murder. Don't tie that to this right now. Mr. Risticevic, yes, you skipped my legs while I was in power, and you'll be jumping even now while I'm in opposition. The benches are uncomfortable for tall people, and that's why I'm sitting by the aisle to get my feet off sometimes. These threats you said speak more of you than of us. Because you were in opposition, so nothing happened to you. Now you've got some power, so you'll send those who were in power when nothing happened to you, to the fifth or fourth horizon. There's a Latin proverb that's very applicable to you -- "mouse and on the hill, when it comes up, it stays small."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1031	I'm so physically ready, not to skip your leg, but to skip you. There were 86 of you in the last session, if I'm not mistaken. How many of you are now - 23. The conflict with me is not worth it for your client. The second thing, I was talking about what citizens expect from DOS. I beg your order and silence. Undisciplined MPs should be thrown out. I listened very carefully. I didn't take my word for it when it came to amnesty. Amnesty is necessarily evil. We had to clear the prisons to shut down the real criminals. But I can't take all these criminals to prisons like this either. We need a prison the size of Maracana. That's why I suggested community service. It's in the West a normal measure, with two programs: free field assistance and free help in the mine. Well, choose whether you want to go to the field or the mines. To see what bread is with 7 crusts. That's what our people, our citizens, our miners, the peasants would say hello. As for the fact that no one said here from the former government, I'll bring you a stenogram, that's what the vice president for rusty spoons said, that there's no time to investigate who killed Slavko Curuvija, because there's a lot of work to do. I'll get you that stenogram transcript, just so you can make sure we never lie. Secondly, this gentleman isn't here right now, because he took the hero saber to hand over Saddam Hussein. He's sabering a heroic weapon. That's where we agree. What was he after? He was supposed to bring a rusty spoon. He's the only one who's been chasing the barrels and the rusty ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course you don't take these threats seriously, but someone should seriously come out here and say that Serbia won't be turned into big camps. I call upon honest judges, there are many more in court than we could say that they do not deserve that calling, that they do not judge when they are ordered by such men as Marijan Risticevic, and that they weigh well, they can do it, they know the laws better than all of us who today are trying to decide about them. To think carefully and to judge exclusively by law, not to judge by political will and not to make Serbian concentration camps. That was long gone in Serbia, since the Germans. Mr. Risticevic, I really don't know if it makes sense to go out with you in any replica. I avoided it even while you were in opposition, because there's nothing to bleed about. I mean, this one of our speakers. I think there are better, more valuable and more authentic political representatives here to conduct the DOS. If one DOS representative comes out for a pay phone and says he's gonna clean up the camps and that Marakana's small for those you're gonna arrest, and you're all gonna shut up, I'm starting to think that's already agreed on by the DOS parliamentary group, and you've only sent one fool to say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1033	There is a word from MP Stevo Dragisic, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1034	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point in the agenda, there is no need to dispute the essence of what is to be achieved. It's the resolution of certain judicial officials in our country. The new government wants to implement its idea it had when it was an opposition, to resolve the office of some judge, some public prosecutors, to, as they say, seduce law enforcement. However, as in some other areas that we have been considering at this session in the last three days and the issue of formal nature has been raised here, are all decisions taken according to the procedure prescribed? The biggest problem is, in fact, the decision to relieve the president of some courts in the state. The proposal submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration to the Assembly says the proposal is being submitted on the basis of Article 40. Court law. A member of the 40th says, it is a member of a single position -- "A proposal for a choice and a motion for a resolution of the president of the court, judge and judge of the jury, is submitted by the competent body of the National Assembly". That's right. However, this would be correct until the end if, on the basis of this Article, only the competence to implement this procedure would be interpreted. In this procedure, Article 29, which says in one of its views, must not be forgotten: "The provisions of this law on judges also apply to the President of the Court, unless otherwise specified by law". I am now simply asking if there is any other law that in a different way prescribes the court's appointment and resolution procedure than it is the judge's discharge procedure. Is there? So the same law I read to you, Mr. Batic. You didn't listen to me. Here it is said - the provisions of this law on judges also apply to the President of the Court. If the President of the Court's responsibility for the execution of proceedings is determined, the President will be relieved of those duties. Who determined their responsibility? The Justice Committee? Based on what? Based on what data? Which authority delivered the information to the Republic of Parliament... Generally known circumstances? That's something else. That's the answer I expected. If, in general, the circumstances are known, then we come to a completely different field, then we come to the subjective evaluation field. If "generally known circumstances" are the reason for resolving the President of the Court, and "generally known circumstances" are determined on the basis of your opinion, such as a lawyer or from performing some other duty, profession, or anyone, I'm not just talking about you, maybe someone else who's been establishing these "generally known circumstances", then this is about a purely subjective opinion. I would understand that, for example, the Supreme Court has determined, based on the data that exists in courts, that these courts are working unscheduledly, that for years and decades, they have not resolved litigation, that this is kind of an objective condition that has been proven. I'm not saying you might be wrong. It is clear to all of us that there are shortcomings in the work of all courts in Serbia, not only in four courts in Belgrade, and based on these generally known circumstances, all the presidents of Serbia may need to be resolved. Why would a car break into four presidents of the court? Why didn't you wait? When you're doing something, do it right to the end, cover at least some relevant opinions, some objective evidence, that your subjective relationship with people and the presidents of the court is not at stake. Now, you're putting us in a position to suspect that there are some personal reasons to resolve the very people that we're talking about today, because there is no objective evidence for your claims. Finally, since there is obviously a link missing in the judge's resolution chain here, it can be said that the new government is jeopardizing the independence of the judge's office in the most obvious way. These reasons that you have instructed as an argument against the resolution of judges, which we will discuss at the next item of the agenda, are now referring to this very decision that you are trying to make. What you criticized the previous government is now being done in the same way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1035	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and then the MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1036	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, here we have a proposal from the Justice and Administration Committee on the resolution of individual courts and the President of the Court, but what I have noticed is that we have two different reasons for the same thing. One explanation states that the Supreme Court informed the National Assembly and that on the basis of the decision or notification of the Supreme Court, the Justice Committee had approached and resolved those judges. In the second argument, there is one quite flat-rate assessment, the Committee has assessed that, in the judicial system and in the judiciary, the Presidents of the courts are objectively responsible, and in accordance with their jurisdiction under this and that law, that I do not quote them, the resolution of these and those presidents of the courts is proposed. On the basis of what data did the Committee bring such an assessment? As far as I know, this assembly was formed on 22 January, not even a month ago, the Committee was probably formed a little later and when it first arrived to visit this First, Second, Third, Fourth Court, to get acquainted with the work of that court or to have some informants, so these informants provide information on whether the court is up-to-date or not, whether it is sloppy etc. I think one of the informants is our justice minister, but he's a very bad informant. He's the only one who knows these judges that are involved, and there's probably some personal interest in getting rid of those judges. I agree that the situation in the judiciary is disastrous, but what is now being done is that nothing will improve in the judiciary, that the judiciary will continue to depend on the one who is in power, and you have advocated independent justice in your pre-election campaign. I would also like to ask the gentleman who signed this proposal to Dragor Hiber, because they are such experts that they can assess the work of four or five courts in a very short time, to suggest that these people be reconstructed and that these gentlemen from the Justice Committee suggest instead of these incompetent ministers, because, if they could have such data in this short time, they will probably be able to make concrete legal proposals faster so that we have something to discuss, not that the ministers here are obstructing this Parliament by coming out with the proposals of one law, with one, two, possibly three members, and on those members another dozen amendments, their normal, to undo those members. All of this indicates that it is not done as it should be done, that the law and the Constitution are respected, but done according to the power of authority, according to individuals from DOS parties. When Mr. Djindjic here exhibited his exposés, I put a sign of equality, I wondered if I could put a sign of equality between him and Kouchner, since the programs are similar, and the employer seems to be similar. With this bill of law, these two three days we've been doing, it absolutely confirms that I was right. Why does it confirm? Because even down in Kosovo, we have these so-called. Experts, judges who arrested innocent Serbs and held them in prison today without conviction, and then when sentencing them, they get a verdict of 14, 15 and over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1037	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1038	Ladies and gentlemen, the unconstitutional and illegality of the bill pointed out, tried to indicate, the predecessors who participated in the debate before me. I would try to point out the way you make the laws and the way you try to pass this law. First of all, there is complete disrespect for government members for MPs in the National Assembly. Apart from Mr Batic, who is obviously personally interested in this law and has no more members of the government in the front row, and Mr Batic is trying to bring in members of his party instead of the resolved presidents and to give the other courts a clear signal - join my party, you will not go out and now confirm from the place that it is true or what one MP from DOS, a member of a political party, says - many are offering us, we are not receiving them, and they are going to Batic, and then we are still being contacted as a delegation to negotiate with us who are much larger political parties. The sessions begin with a great delay, and that is another vision of how you respect the National Assembly. There's never enough DOS officers in the O.R. Now, as I speak, there are 123 MPs and radicals have inserted their cards. You say radicals don't put in cards, so you don't have a quorum. Do you think socialists don't put in cards? Well, there would never be more than 50 DOS MPs. It's an obstruction of Parliament's work. This isn't obstruction. The MP here should speak of the law, the opposition MP, to try in all ways to prevent the adoption of a law that he thinks is bad, then you defend this bill and to pass the best laws. Furthermore, I thought this was Serbia's new political elite, and at least that's what you said in the election campaign. Here we see even the weather ladies, ladies and ladies, earning, hearing some unarticulated pitching, banging on the benches. Well, is that all the mind Serbia has sent to this parliament? Is that why you got the votes? You're not in session...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1039	Switch to the subject of this point, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1040	Under the law, everything is within five minutes. I'm afraid by force of numbers you'll be passing laws, not by force of arguments. That you'll achieve everything on your muscles. You say we're most, we're right. Well, those Jews who crucified Christ were in the majority, but they were wrong. It's all about the subject, and I'm proving that the Time Lords with the Seven Beards are getting it, and here they never signed up for a pay phone. Here, the ladies of time are getting back from the side. In the end, be at least a little more patient and fairer to those who are now in opposition because you asked it to pass the power to do so to you. Be honest, though it doesn't matter, because according to DOS Supreme Leader Zoran Djindjic, to whom it is fair to go to church.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1041	We don't have any more registered MPs. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to respond to some of the remarks made on the proposed decisions. And that, first of all, given the legal arguments. It is true that these objections are in part and expected, the debate on the procedure for the resolution of the President of the Courts was conducted at the Committee's sitting. The arguments were carefully heard and carefully measured. The law is not explicit enough for one or the other attitude to be performed by naked reading and language interpretation. Therefore, more legal arguments, legal knowledge and legal correctness are needed. The legal problem arises from the relationship between Article 29, paragraphs 6 and 7. Court law. As Article 6 refers to the application of the provisions on judges to the Presidents of the Courts, Article 7 provides for a special procedure for the resolution of the President of the Court. Let's consider law school, and everyone here called for law school, as if they had all graduated from law school, so that's where it is. Article 6 says that these rules on judges will not be applied, if otherwise prescribed by law. The law lays down rules on the dismissal of judges in one particular head, and outside that head there is a special rule on the dismissal of the President of the Courts. That's exactly the exception. It is precisely the fact that the law particularly regulates the resolution of the President of the Court of Justice. In addition to this logical interpretation, the fact is that in no provision that regulates the resolution of judges, there is no illusion of the ruling of the President of the Court. Let's think about it a little bit deeper, expanding the interpretation. The special rules of the judge's discharge procedure exist, above all, to protect the judge's continuity. The Presidents of the Court are not subject to the principle of continuity. They have a limited mandate. But not only that, it could be said by further and wider interpretation that a special procedure should protect the independence of judges and judges. If the jurisdiction of the President of the Courts is looked at by law, and it will be seen that their resolution or appointment cannot and must not affect the independence of the courts. The President of a court that would interfere in any way with cases, including the classification of cases by judges and councils, would severely violate the law and be something that cannot be. Therefore, there is no serious reason for the court presidents to be subject to a special procedure by law designed to be resolved by judges. After all, this interpretation has always been applied by this congregation. When you plead for another interpretation, you plead for a change of interpretation. I'm about to change your interpretations in many things. In this one, there were no legal arguments. The second observation is whether or not the reason for the court president's resolution has been established. If what I have said so far is true, then it is the Committee for Justice and Management who is responsible for establishing that reason. As there is no reason, nor any initiative to resolve the president's office, keeping their professional dignity, the Committee was satisfied with an assessment of the objective responsibility for the ugly situation in our judiciary, which no one seems to have denied to me. Some of the debaters, who were high-ranking in the judiciary, were just saying that there are suffocations in courts, that there are problems. When the Committee was defined for such a proposal, he had in mind both the president's personality and the fact that, on the very proposal, they should remain judges. To perform a duty that is much more important, much more complex than the administrative duties of the President of the Court. We have not touched on their professional honor, which is why I think that this assembly should give or not give away the vote of trust according to the Committee's assessment, which has been passed if I am not mistaken, with 11 votes for and two against, that it may also be proposed by the President of the Court, with their stay in the judicial office. This does not violate the law, but rather enables its better respect. At last, I cannot in one word answer the remarks that I have trampled my professorial and professional morality. I didn't. No one affected me. I'm not going to call for extenuating circumstances, that since I haven't been a professor in almost two and a half years, because I was given, without any procedure, to quit law school, so that I might have forgotten all his rules. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1043	I'm closing the search and we're moving on to a decision. Before we move to a decision on a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office to the judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, I remind you, according to Article 174. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall decide on the choice, i.e. the resolution or termination of the office of each Constitutional Court judge individually by a secret vote, unless it decides to make the vote public. I propose that the National Assembly decide, by public vote, to suspend the Judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia's office by using an electronic voting system. Any other suggestions? There isn't. If not, before voting on the proposal, I ask the MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I am putting on the motion that the National Assembly decide to suspend the judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia by public vote - using an electronic voting system. For 149, against two, no one was abstentioned, no vote was 10, and a total of 161 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly decided by majority vote to suspend the judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia's office by voting in public -- using an electronic voting system. Before we go to the vote, I ask you to make a decision on the work of today's session. It's 16.50 minutes now, so I suggest we get on with the work to the end of all the points on this agenda, and we have one more point left after the end. Any other suggestions? No, there isn't. If not, please determine the quorum. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. Please vote on an extension of work until the end of all agendas. For 123, against 24, no one was abstentioned, no vote was 10, and a total of 157 MPs were present. I realize we've made a decision to work today until the end of all agendas. We move on to a decision on the motion for a decision to suspend the court's office to the judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. First, pursuant to the provisions of Article 174(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, we will vote individually for each Constitutional Court sitting proposed to suspend the court's office. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting on the motion that Spasenija Babovic, Judge of the Constitutional Court, cease the judicial post on the day of the decision, in order to meet the conditions for the exercise of the right to retirement. For 153, no one, there were no glares, had voted 5, and a total of 158 MPs were present. I can't believe this is unanimous, so I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted this proposal. Unfortunately, the very good Rules of Procedure that we continue to use requires us to re-establish the quorum, and so each time before the vote. Secondly, I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting the motion on the vote to stop Tefiku Lugiqi, Judge of the Constitutional Court, on the day of decision-making, in order to meet the conditions for the right to retirement. Please vote. I find that 153 against one, one abstention, was not voted by one, and 156 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal by majority vote. By adopting both proposals to suspend the court's office to the judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, the National Assembly has decided to suspend the court's office to the judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. Third, we move to a decision on a motion for a decision on the discharge of the office of Serbian Supreme Court President. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 151, there were two abstentions, no four votes, and a total of 157 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. We move on to a decision on a motion for a decision to relieve the President of the Court. Please determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 119, against 21, abstentions 9, three were not voted, while 152 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. Fourth, we move to a decision on a motion for a decision on the discharge of the office of the President of the Municipal Court in Kragujevac. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 118, against 24, with nine abstentions, five did not vote, a total of 156 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. Fifth, we move to a decision on the motion for a decision to suspend the court's office to judges of general jurisdiction, economic courts and judges of the District Court's jury in Belgrade, with an amendment and addition of the motion for a decision. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 140, there are no, abstentions 12, no vote five, a total of 157 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision, with the amendment and addition of the motion for a decision. Sixth, we move to a decision on a motion for a decision to dismiss judges of the Municipal Court in Nis and the Municipal Court in Presevo. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 151, there is no, abstention one, no vote five, a total of 157 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. Seven, we move to a decision on a motion for a discharge from the duty of the republican public prosecutor. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 155, there are no, no abstentions, no seven votes, a total of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. Eight, we move on to a decision on the motion for a decision to suspend the function of the public prosecutor. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 158, there are no, no abstentions, no four votes, a total of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. That ended the sixth item of the agenda. Before we move to the seventh item of the agenda, I would like to inform you that I received a request from a group of 138 MPs of the DOS Group for the urgent maintenance of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, with the agenda contained in that request. I convened a session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001 for Thursday, February 15th, starting at 10.00pm. A call for the Fourth Extraordinary Session, with materials from the agenda of the session, was given to you during this session, so I ask all Members of Parliament to attend the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: - How about the Rules of Procedure? It's not an emergency procedure, because it's not a law, it's an act. Emergency procedure no.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1044	The promoter didn't ask for an emergency procedure, it was written there that they suggest that the session be scheduled as soon as possible. But the Rules of Procedure ask for an emergency procedure. The more urgent the appointment of the session and the urgent procedure for the adoption of the act, it is not the same. If no emergency procedure is requested, then it comes under the rule of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 134, that it cannot be on the agenda within 15 days and longer than 60, exclusively even 90, if you explain it. And it states in the Rules of Procedure that the procedure provided for in the laws is applied to make such decisions, recommendations, declarations, resolutions. There are four provisions on emergency sittings that regulate this matter in the same way. So, out of the appeal, is it the failure of whoever suggested this item of the agenda, it is clear that he did not ask for an emergency procedure. He asked for an emergency call, and that's a minimum of 15 days. I can allow it to be a mistake, but if you want to respect the Rules of Procedure, tomorrow's session can't be held. And if you don't respect the Rules of Procedure, like you didn't respect him today, then you can do anything. It was my duty to warn you. Perhaps this will help you to avoid making mistakes like this later.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1045	I would ask you, it is customary that when called to the Rules of Procedure and quoted, members are listed. It's hard for me to list this. He's not mine, so I'm not getting used to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1046	Article 134 speaks about the deadlines for the adoption of the draft law, Article 156 speaks about the procedure for the adoption of laws applicable to this, Article 157 speaks of an emergency procedure, Articles 162 to 165 refer to an emergency session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1047	Great five. So when it comes to an emergency procedure, it's primarily about the law. Thus, the law can also be passed by an emergency procedure. We don't have an emergency procedure to discuss here, and the request says an emergency session is required. Therefore, it can only be interpreted as a possible technical error, although I think it is not necessary, since it is not a draft law and since it is a matter of making a decision on the appointment and resolution of the holders of judicial functions. I'm not saying I'm right. I think that's how it works in the Rules of Procedure. Just to see what else you objected to, it's about the emergency procedure, you don't think the request is explicitly stated. You mean, it's not explicitly stated in the request, but it certainly comes out, or even if we did it a little faster, that they could be an integral part of these sessions, because it's one rounded matter. This technical correction can be carried out, it is not essential. Do you agree with this? Approval. We discussed this situation. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON CONSTRUCTION OUT OF THE STRENGTH DECISION ON JUDGMENTS OF THE JUDGE You have received a proposal for a decision, which has been made by the Committee on Justice and Administration. I'm opening a single search and I suggest, according to Article 92(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to limit the duration of exposure, as well as at previous points, to five minutes. Any other suggestions? No, there isn't. If not, please determine the quorum. I realize we have a quorum and I'm putting on a motion to limit exposure time to five minutes, within this agenda point. I ask the MPs to vote. For 128, against 26, there were no abstentions, there was no 9 vote, a total of 163 MPs. I realize we've made a decision to limit exposure time to five minutes. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He has the word Mr. Dragore Hiber.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1048	Ladies and gentlemen, in the previous session, this National Assembly has made several decisions, which, contrary to the Constitution and the law, have been resolved by a number of judges of the Supreme Court, district and municipal courts and economic courts. The opposition to the Constitution and to the law is reflected in the reasons that the MPs, a number of MPs of this National Assembly, presented when it came to the resolution of the President of the Courts, and in these cases it was about the resolution of judges. In contrast to the constitutional principle of the constitutionality of the judicial office, judges are dismissed without being established by the Constitution and by the law the basis for the resolution. It couldn't have been done because it wasn't. The procedure for the reasons for the resolution was not implemented by law either, the general session of the Supreme Court of Serbia was not declared. These decisions have already been condemned by the expert public, and those judgments and requests for changes to be made today. The Justice Committee of the National Assembly of Serbia has just received an act today by the Association of Lawmakers of Serbia, Serbia's fastest legal organisation, with views that require condemnation and review of these decisions. By establishing or considering that decisions on the resolution of judges, taken at the National Assembly in December 1999, or July 2000, are illegal, the Committee decided to propose to the National Assembly to put these decisions out of force. The Committee considers that each authority, not only has been authorised, is also obliged to put aside its own illegal decision, so the National Assembly is empowered and obliged to act in this way. The Committee has been making analogies with some Constitution and the law of the envisaged situations, e.g. the right and the duty of the National Assembly to put out of force the law which it adopted, which the Constitutional Court has assessed is not in agreement with the Constitution. The promoter is of the opinion that this way, not only will correct a number of illegal decisions, but it will be a step towards restoring the dignity of the judicial calling. Correcting the situation resulting from illegal decisions, the National Assembly will at least partially correct the injustice done to illegally resolved judges. Whether they accept to return to their jobs or not is another question. I don't think a particular argument to the reasons for the illegality of the decisions after the discussion at the previous point is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1049	Do the People's MPs, who held meetings of the Committee, want an opinion? No, they don't. ) Then I call on the presidents of the parliamentary groups, if they want a word, to apply. He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1050	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there is a proposal for a strange decision. I would dare say the unblessed decisions, that the National Assembly should annul four of its acts, which were made in 1999 and 2000. The proposal was tabled by the Committee for Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, calling on the National Assembly to make a decision on the basis of one general member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the 131st member, which is prescribed that the National Assembly, among other things, make decisions. Article 53. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which describe the rights and duties of the Committee on Justice and Administration, are not foreseen for that committee to propose this decision. The only thing the Committee proposes is the choice and resolution of a person who performs judicial and public prosecutorial functions. The decision could have been proposed by any MP, the government could, but could not have been proposed by the Justice and Administration Committee. The Committee on Justice and Management is not Members, and that was his obligation, to deliver the text of the Decision on the discharge of judges, whose cancellation is required, so that if MPs decide to decide at all, they have enough information to decide. Therefore, in the light of the proposal for a decision, a fundamental reason arises for repealing decisions, so-called ‘the decision’. the absence of a Supreme Court decision on the grounds for dissuasion of judges. I voted in favour of making a decision that you suggest the National Assembly cancels. With each individual decision, the Justice and Administration Committee has informed lawmakers that it has acted on the request of the Supreme Court of Serbia. I call on the promoter to explain - why he lied to the MPs by saying that there were no decisions of the Supreme Court, and why does he lead us astray, in a desire to vote at the will of the Minister of Justice? There were then MPs of the opposition in this assembly, who are now MPs of the ruling majority, and they have this congregation material, I looked at it again yesterday. With every request for a judge's discharge, the Justice Committee wrote that it is acting on the request of the Supreme Court of Serbia. And what did I vote for in 1999 and 2000? I voted in favour of a judge who, for the decisions of the court in which he tried, the Supreme Court of Serbia, spoke publicly that they were illegal, although he must know, and knows likely, that the legality of judicial decisions could be questioned and evaluated exclusively in the court proceedings. I voted for the resolution of the judge who said in London that he was ashamed to be a judge in Serbia. I voted for the resolution of all judges who were politically engaged. I voted for the resolution of all judges who publicly solidarity with judges who were party officials or non-registered officials, but public political organisations. I voted for the release of a judge who was sentenced by a judicial verdict to unconditional imprisonment. I voted in favour of a judge who left his job at work and attended a political party's meeting. I voted in favour of a judge who agreed to be a member of the municipal Transitional Council, in charge of justice and local administration. I voted in favour of the court president's resolution, in which the number of pending cases in the investigation and the first-degree criminal and practice proceedings is greater than the 16-month inflow of cases. I voted in favour of the resolution of the district attorney, who dealt with private entrepreneurship affairs, as well as other private business that earned profits.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1051	Excuse me, are you using exposure time for two more times?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1052	I'm using. All these decisions you're putting under suspicion today, all those decisions you want to undo, and with retroactive fact, you're going to make a very absurd situation, that people who have been dealing with another profession ever since, we're going to go back to court, we're going to pay them their personal income, and if they're doing other jobs for all that time, we're going to make some other income. I voted and I don't regret it. All decisions were legal, and those they applied to had the right to appeal. It's been two years, and all the people they're dealing with are mostly lawyers and, as far as I know, they haven't used legal means to prove the illegality of the National Assembly's decision. Maybe they want to go back to the judiciary. Call a competition, let them apply, and most of them, who won't think much, choose them. There will be judges until they are deemed to be as stable as defeat, and then they will start to treat the Socialists, who chose them at their own time. The decisions taken by the National Assembly may not comply with the Constitution and the laws, but the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, not the National Assembly, resolves this. If the decisions were questioned by the one who made them, it would be according to that people's -- "When you're sued, the cadiya judges you." The National Assembly must reject this proposal, and the Proposer shall refer to the legal procedure for selecting the holders of judicial functions. So the minister of justice will then be responsible for what is happening in the judiciary. No reason, apart from the desire for the National Assembly to act by law, I am no longer disturbed by this discussion. Since the promoter has not convinced me that there is a legal basis for this decision, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1053	The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1054	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished members of the government, if yesterday's observation of a charming representative of the ruling coalition in this House is correct, that this parliament has some elements of the theatre, I would dare say that the agenda of this session may also have some elements of drama. The first act was one act of mercy of the Law on Amnesty, and then one order of law and decision to abolish, restrict, annul, put out of force certain laws and certain rights, and finally, we end up again with one act of mercy of the new government. The act of grace, in the form of a decision, which needs to be put out of effect by a congregation decision from the previous call. I think this decision, which is before us today, in its form, is unconstitutional and illegal, and by its essence and by the legal facts of the future, is harmful and absurd. I'll try to keep that in mind. Unconstitutional because it tries to treat individual acts, because the choice of judges is an individual act, as a general act, and that retroactively repeals one such act. They are against the law because they are trying to produce a legal fact that is equal to the fact that the existing Law on Courts is respected and that they are producing the consequences that judges, which have been resolved by the act of the previous Assembly, are now declaring judges in an illegal manner. The legal logic which led the motion of this decision I think is very harmful and absurd. Because I don't think it's allowed and it's very dangerous to reach into the past like this. Not to say he's precedentd in parliament's work so far. If such retroactive reaching and repealing decisions could be accepted as a principle, then we could really come up with a very absurd situation. You can also not like him, for example. Parliament Speaker Dragan Tomic's election to the post in the last term, so you can now annul the decision on his election with your act. This will result in all the acts he has brought being annulled, and he has, among other things, passed an act on the calling of these elections that you won and won this number of mandates here. So I don't want to distract myself from everything that this legal logic, which you're introducing now, can lead to further work if it's formed as a rule. This decision, if taken, opens up many legal consequences. After making this decision, did the resolved judges become judges? Should they take an oath? Do they also need their consent to be judges again based on such a decision? This isn't just me, this is what some of them are asking you. Mr. Miroslav Todorovic, in his interview with "Blica" in the last week, says he wrote a letter to both the government and the Assembly and the Committee that proposed this decision, which thanks him for honor and mercy, but believes you do not better defend him in this way, because he considers this choice illegal. If he thinks so, why shouldn't we? You are also familiar with the statements of many other prominent experts from the lawyer's branch, Mr. Soskovic, who also believes that this time you have chosen is not legal and is not good. I think that the government, which truly holds to the legality and legitimacy, has had two legal opportunities to do this job in a correct way, to choose these judges by the existing law or by some urgent or other procedure to pass a new law on courts and by that law choose these courts, in a different way, with a congregational majority that you have here. He hasn't been chosen one time or another. He's been chosen for the third time, which is the path of legal violence. I don't think anything in politics happens by accident, so this time he wasn't chosen by accident either. It's only possible, in my opinion, that two reasons why he was chosen this time. First, to demonstrate just now an absolute power of executive power over all other authorities and to make it clear that it can not only change the present and the future, but it has so much power to change the past. Another reason and another reason, which would lead to a result that may not satisfy some of these individuals, because perhaps some of these individuals, who have been resolved by the acts of the Assembly last year and before last year, now on a legal path could not be elected judges, or are too old, for retirement, or are sick or perhaps some of them not alive. Finally, the National Assembly resolved with its decisions a number of judicial officials, out of the number you are rehabilitating with this decision. A number of people, for the same reason they were cleared and these holders of judicial functions, remained on the sidelines. It's not covered by this decision. These are some judges from the Fireman. I don't know if the hand of the goddess of justice has shaken anything, so these judges are relieved, surrounded by this act of mercy, or other reasons in the middle. Inspired by Mr Batic's presentation of the previous agenda, when he spoke of the goddess of justice, the same people who created the goddess of justice and founded the law and the legal system said that justice is powerless, and power without justice is tyrantic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1055	Ladies and gentlemen, the Republic Assembly is not in charge in a specific case of repealing individual legal acts. The promoter was obliged to present the constitutional basis to the MPs. He's gone, he's left out. It would be good if that constitutional basis were listed. I don't know what reason it isn't. Other acts and legal projects delivered to the Assembly cited a constitutional basis, and was left out here. For what reason, I don't know. It was necessary and it was necessary not to create a doubt, not to lead into error, to specify the constitutional basis. The General Act of the Assembly is competent to abolish, but as it appears there is no legal basis, it is missing, and it should have been cited. I join the predecessors who pointed out that this problem had to be solved if according to judges who had been resolved by the Assembly in the previous period some injustice had been done, that this had to be resolved in such a way as to call a competition and that the candidates had to report and if they were to meet the conditions to be elected. That would eliminate any doubt. However, I am afraid of one thing and the mood in the judiciary is such that there will be remandism, that there will be the appointment of these resolved holders of judicial functions in the previous and previous years, that they will be appointed to the duties of the president and the leaders of the judicial authorities, which in any case may have adverse consequences. I'm afraid it's not about rematchism, because they were out of the judiciary after these decisions, and that's why I think, as a lawyer, that it was necessary, I repeat, to state the legal basis, to remove any misunderstandings and misunderstandings about whether this is legal or not. The current authority swears and swears in a pre-election campaign that there will be respect for the Constitution and the law and therefore, future such proposals should not come before the Assembly in which no constitutional basis would be mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1056	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop - Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1057	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as far as I know, one congregation has not yet assessed the legality of the decision of the same congregation in another congregation. I draw attention to the reasons for the decision of the Justice and Administration Committee, signed by Prof. Dr. Dragor Hiber and who lacks a natural constitutional basis for making this decision. Mr Hiber, where did you read this in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where it says that the Assembly can make such a decision, and where does the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in Article 53(2), which state your committee's competences, say that this committee has those powers? If you go out for this pay phone and convince me, I call on this parliament to make a decision to put aside the decisions of this same parliament in the previous session on accepting the signing of the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan, because that is absolutely possible and in accordance with the Constitution, and the people of Serbia would welcome it, and the consequences would certainly be positive for the state. The right to tell you, I expect that at one of the next sessions we will get from you a proposal without calling on any member of the law or the Rules of Procedure to make any decision that will be considered - a way to dress the Members of Parliament, which is, of course, a matter of bonton and good education. What do you want to achieve with this motion for a decision? You want to amnesty of these judges who have exhibited themselves as officials of individual political parties, who have performed certain political functions in them or any other organisation, contrary to Article 5. The law on courts, which explicitly prohibits it. All these judges who were then relieved of their duties for expressing public support to Judge Miroslav Todorovic, who was also relieved of his duties, who said he was ready for all blows, but did not give up his membership so-called. the organisation of OTPOR, which is an illegal organisation and which has used illegal methods of achieving political objectives. You want to rehabilitate them, because you think they are morally political and in gratitude that even after the resolution, many of them continued to travel around Serbia for small foreign exchange diaries to educate OTPOR members. I know some of them myself. I happen to be a Belgrade girl. I happen to go to high school with someone. Have we heard from your mouth and the mouth of your leaders in the election campaign that you stand for an independent judiciary? I think we are. You were saying everything you thought was the will of the people, and then by winning power from day one, you started breaking your promises. Look out, the people aren't short-minded and they don't like to be deceived. What could have prevented you from renaming these same judges as judges? Nothing. You have an absolute majority and you could re-propose them for judges and they would be chosen without any problems. However, you were not sure that this procedure would absolutely and will succeed, because if we want to comply with the law, the first instance to propose a choice of judges is to the College of Court, and in these courts, in large numbers, there are honorable people who would not propose these fellow judges for these functions. So, you're not going to re-nominations, you're going to put out of force a resolution decision, with all the consequences that arise, to make up their profits for this period of resolution, that they're practically not even been resolved anywhere, that for this period of resolution to this day, they're opening up the possibility of looking for compensation for an insult of honor, to see, anything is possible for you. You want to rehabilitate Miroslav Todorovic, who has made a statement about his political activity regarding the visit to London that he was ashamed of being a judge in the Republic of Serbia, and for the abolished or modified verdicts, in which he participated by a higher court, the public claims that this is an expression of remandism towards him. That, gentlemen, can't do it. These same judges were elected by a congregation, and they must work in accordance with the Constitution and the law. If they don't, then they must be resolved and bear the consequences of their actions. These others, who don't do this job professionally, and if they want to deal with politics, ask for a solution and they can, as far as we're concerned, become ministers and run for office as president of the state, we have nothing against it. They can't be judges at the same time. That's why we will, of course, vote against a motion of this kind.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1058	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1059	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am sorry, but I have to report to you today at the same point of the Rules of Procedure, Article 97, this is about you very important part of the agenda. Now, a colleague of Gordana Pop-Lazic explained that, contrary to the Constitution, you are putting an individual act out of force today. How are you going to vote that? A hundred MPs are in the O.R. right now. This is the most recent assembly of the assembly majority, made up of DOS MPs, and since it has been a multi-party in Serbia. The fourth session of the extraordinary session is you're looking for tomorrow, it's really a question of how we're going to work and how you're going to secure the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1060	It wasn't, of course, the violations of the Rules of Procedure, I assume you didn't even object to it, but to ask for a quorum to be determined, because the session can be interrupted when it's established, and we haven't established. So we can stop when we find out. I understand that as a suggestion to determine the quorum. Now we're gonna do it. Please insert your cards. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. I'm taking a ten-minute break to secure the quorum. [[After a break.]] I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs' units to see if we have a quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working on the 7th point of the agenda. The People's Messenger Istvan Ispanovich has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1062	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have heard various qualifications here on the proposed decision, and it has been suggested that someone speak who was in the old membership of the Justice Committee. I'm the only MP who was in the opposition at the time, and now I'm also a member of the Justice Committee. Since I was a member of that board, I know the history of making this decision. Here's what's said, here's Mr. Tom Nikolic, saying he later reviewed all the files on the judge's discharge. I don't need to look at the files, I've been involved in the work and I've got a big pile of paperwork in my bag on all this. No one wants to talk about the essence here. It's about the next one. There really was a proposal from the Supreme Court to get the judges to get rid of it. There was a little problem, and that little problem is in article 27. Court law. It's been quoted several times today, and this article is 27. The law on courts says that in case a judge is dismissed against his will, such a proposal should also be presented before the General Session of the Supreme Court and there to make a decision. That leak was made. The Supreme Court president wrote nicely that he was proposing a resolution, but he forgot to ask the General Session of the Supreme Court, so he could write any proposal at all. When I asked Mr. President of the Supreme Court if the session, the General Session of the Supreme Court, was held, he said - everything is in accordance with the law. When I asked him again, because I didn't ask if he was in accordance with the law, but whether a session of the Supreme Court, the General Session, was held, he kept quiet. Thus, that decision was not legal at the time, and that is the main problem. Don't talk now about this decision being illegal, unconstitutional, etc. That decision was not legal and cannot survive. That is why it is necessary for this assembly to make a decision on the abolition of this illegal decision, not any decision, but an illegal decision. That is why it is our obligation to make a decision because that decision was against the law. That's what they knew, not only the President of the Supreme Court, but also the colleagues, there are several of them sitting on the Justice Committee. When I launched an initiative to resolve the Supreme Court president, namely, he proposed an illegal decision, I felt that he could no longer be President of the Supreme Court, when I initiated that decision, that decision never reached the meeting of the Justice Committee. Why? Because the then majority, the ruling majority, prevented the vote from coming to the agenda at all. If that were to happen, in that case we would be discussing that illegal decision. Therefore, it is not a dilemma whether this decision should be made now or not, it is unambiguous. That decision was illegal and it's the least we need to give these judges. I mean that satisfaction, to allow them to return to the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1063	The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic. Okay, replica, MP Tom Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good thing that Ispanovich came forward, but he just confirms what I said when I first went out for this pay phone. In those decisions of 1999 and 2000, we resolved judges who, under Article 5, were no longer able to perform their duties as judges. That attitude is explicit. The judge cannot perform his duty if he performs another service, job or duty which could affect his independence, if he is a MP, a committee member, if he performs political, administrative functions and if he deals with something that would diminish his reputation or the reputation of the court. The procedure under Article 36(2) for determining the responsibility of the judge shall be initiated by the President of the Supreme Court. That's how it was in those decisions, Mr. Ispanovich. The general session and the right of the judge to plead on the motion for resolution shall apply only to Article 46(3), and that is what you have done today, if it is found that he performs a judicial function unequivocally and unwittingly. You know, Article 5 is so clear. If someone has a private business, if anyone is involved in political function, the President of the Supreme Court informs the Justice and Administration Committee that because it is necessary to apply Article 5, it is necessary for the Assembly to vote that he can no longer be a judge. There's no dilemma. I've given you a number of reasons why we've cleared some judges. All these reasons are contained in Article 5. There's no discussion or discussion about them. He can't be a judge. It's over. There's no determination. The Assembly shall determine whether he has injured Article 5. (Glasses -- they're individuals. They're not individuals. The assembly's arbitration. That's the law. Change the law today, choose new judges tomorrow. And just one more thing. We won't answer again. I think we're clear now. Since 1990, since the first multi-party elections and the first assembly in 1991, it has never happened that ministers do not honour the National Assembly by attending a session of the National Assembly. Here we are, day after day. Except for Mr. Batic, Mr. Vlahovic and what fell on the plane, Mr. Korac was present today, we no longer had any ministers at the National Assembly session. They may not respect you, gentlemen of the DOS, if you allow them to, you voted for them, but they must respect the National Assembly. Whether they perform their duties or not depends on the National Assembly. That's why you don't have a quorum here. That's another reason I want to warn Mr. President. Do not warn the radicals, for there is no quorum. Every time we see that there's no quorum, we'll take out our cards. If you don't have 126 MPs today, don't even hold a session. Because there's no point in expecting the opposition to constitute a quorum at the National Assembly sessions, and then accusing us of obstructing why we're talking. Well, then, at the beginning of the agenda, even though you know none of your people will answer for a word, limit the time for discussion. Those who are not at all interested decide how much time will be used by those who are interested in time. Then you find that five minutes is enough to discuss, because you won't even be a minute to discuss it. I think this is our final, we will no longer, in fact, I don't know, I didn't even ask the MPs, if anyone has a prepared discussion they'll talk after me, but on behalf of the MPs' group I end up. Today's session, yesterday's session, probably tomorrow's session, shows the relationship between MPs and ministers (a voice-relation of forces). No, the power ratio is clear. You have most of it. Why? That's what the election showed. We have recognised the results of the election, but it shows the relationship between both MPs and ministers towards this people's assembly. It's a very bad relationship. And it's possible that many people are ashamed of this agenda. You may vote, raise your hands, but it doesn't matter if someone tells you day after day that decisions are very suspicious. There are people among you who are very professional in this business. When I say "how's this" to one of them in front of the gym, he says, "let's move on." There are no arguments to defend this. And that behavior is very familiar to me from some other times, and that behavior is always avenged by the majority in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1065	The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1066	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it is still time for me to remind you, after your previous discussion, that you have just voted with your majority that five people have done a bad job. And you didn't provide them with a bigger Supreme Court at all, you didn't provide them with a proposal from the Supreme Court president, you didn't provide them with an informant, and you didn't give them a chance to prove whether they were doing good or bad. That's very important because now you're trying in the other direction to talk. This is another proof that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has absolutely not prepared this session and has brought you as a majority, a silent majority, to vote on what the Government has proposed, and you are probably picking up what is there and how much by the Constitution, is not by law or by law. It's just, you're about five people who have been doing their job professionally, who have their careers behind them, who say they're bad, you've condemned them, and you haven't let them prove whether they're bad or not. Now another story, now the government has brought itself into a difficult dilemma, normally through the Justice and State Administration Committee. Now you're told, gentlemen - let's cancel out the retroactive stuff. It is known that under the Constitution retroactively it can be annulled out of general interest. The general interest in you is that the President of the Supreme Court, without an extended session of the council, has submitted a proposal for certain judges to be resolved. You heard Mr Nikolic that there is a Article 5 that can be done without a council, and there is a member who is working with a bigger one than the case you've already ruled people without trial and without insight into the whole story. Do you know what this is about? This has two very unpleasant political connotations. This is a message to all the judges, to all the prosecutors, to all the people in the judiciary, gentlemen, to DOS and to the government, to be able to replace people without verification, to bring people back and retroactively undo decisions. That message is terrible. That message directly says there's nothing from an independent judiciary. The intention of this dependent judiciary has been given to leading people in that area, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia who are picking up what everything, who, how many, where and what is to be done. But I keep thinking. And why didn't you cancel the election of those judges that didn't work? You, if you keep doing this, you can undo the elections of all judges in Serbia. And then the question will come before you - and what about the cases which these judges have judged. Here's the draft law on the university. The election of the people in calling is annulled. The young man was an assistant, he became a doctor, he asked for a year or two, now he wants to cancel his doctor's name. What about the exams he ran? The lectures he gave? The diplomatic works he's been doing? Guys, there's nothing here from the rule of law. There's absolutely nothing. So, under number one, you understand and understand, Serbia's history does not begin with the arrival of DOS to power. Serbia's history began long ago, since Nemnjec, by Emperor Dusan and his legislator, from Karadjord and Milos Obrenovic, from Pasic, who was brave and who refused a member of the 4th blackmail and ultimatum of Austro-Hungarian and said, "I won't let the Austrian police run me over Serbia." Just like we did, because we didn't let NATO step on Serbia. My dear gentlemen, you do not like to hear someone else's opinion and thus prove to everyone the essence of the democratic orientation to which you are fed. Basically, you have much older relics in you related to the Bolshevik, pure communist variant, which does not recognise the absolute right of others to think. So, we will vote against this proposal, because this proposal is at the request of the DOS government and you majority in parliament and seems essentially a precedent for which we estimate that you will work from session to session. I feel sorry for all of us, the President of the Assembly, that we will enter history that we have passed the laws of two rows, breaking the Constitution, which we have passed retroactively, which is simply the opportunity for you to intend to undo everything that was before, however good or bad. Understand and understand, there is a law in the rule of law until it changes. As long as that law exists, it's what it's all about. Here, you have most of it. Propose laws, change them and work on them in the future. Don't reach for retroactiveness. And in the end, some of these people, which you're returning to this illegal, retroactive decision, I personally know. Did you even ask them if they accept it? Why should a distinguished lady become president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, with such a decision as you will make tonight? Well, you could have done nice, regular work in a week to get it ready and put that woman to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1067	To take advantage of me as president of the lineage. I'm mentioned as president, I'll be very brief. I won't have anything to be ashamed of, Mr. Ivkovic, I mean it. I won't have anything to be ashamed of because I'm going to insist on making decisions myself, and if they're not technically perfect, they're legal and just. I'll have nothing to be ashamed of. I really don't think history begins from the victory of the Democratic opposition in the elections, but I am convinced that the history of democratic Serbia begins with these elections. He has the word Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1068	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is ahead of us much more than a statement on one item of the agenda. Just as we are facing the end of the Third Extraordinary Session of the Republic Parliament, which in itself, with everything we have done on it, exceeds the dimensions of the ordinary assembly session. Namely, the following ideals that built this society, the ideals which also brought the Democratic opposition to the opportunity for today to rule and change the country in which we live, we are obliged to ask ourselves -- what was the National Assembly, and how much, like the majority of us in this House, I am addressing DOS MPs, ready to change, changing retroactively, as Mr Ivkovic put it, essentially acknowledging that this assembly has been a mere instrument of abuse in the tyranny of a married couple and all those who have agreed to it. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will not annul its 1999 decision, or 2000. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ending the Third Extraordinary Session, will recognise that a great sin has been committed by applying the Public Information Act. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will acknowledge that no citizen of this country is in itself worthy, even though he was the former president. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will acknowledge that the time has come when we will create a slogan -- a robbery point -- we as a new authority will show by example that Serbia will be different in the future from this Serbia we parted with on October 5th. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will finally, by its decision tomorrow, tell the judges it appoints, that they no longer need to fear it or any other one, but solely themselves and the consequences of the justice that is slow but reaching, after a year, two or five or ten, available at this session. Gentlemen of Parliament, I call on you to support DOS policy, to vote in favour of the Government's proposals, to vote in favour of the proposals presented before you by the Assembly Committee on Justice and Administration, and in such a way you are solemnly beginning a different work in this House, which will, in all respects, be different from what it should be, and unfortunately, it has never been. Thank you. (Employor Stevo Dragisic asks for a word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1069	There are no more applications, you are asked, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please take your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1070	Ladies and gentlemen, I have never told you about the pay phone in this assembly before - I had no intention of answering it, but here I have answered it, and for the first time I am saying it now - I did not really intend to answer it, because within this part of the agenda it can only be debated whether formal conditions for making such a decision have been met or not. But this is the second or third time we have heard pre-election speeches from some rallys, from some public stands, in which the ruling majority of us here address us as their sympathies. The theme is to make a decision about putting out the strength of that decision, but you did not ask to talk about the subject as Cedomir Jovanovic spoke, you did not ask to talk about the resolution of the judges, when Mrs Gordana Komic spoke, do not ask to talk about the topic on the agenda, when we listen to the speeches of your MPs and your representatives, and ask to talk about the topic when you do not like what you listen to from this pay phone. So the topic is what you're talking about, because you're planning these sessions and you're setting the agenda, and you have no idea about the course of that agenda, the subject is everything you're talking about and you're encouraging us to go out for this pay phone, to answer you. Now, that's the darkness. So, Mr. Jovanovic here was saying, frankly, I can't remember what it was all about, that it was empty phrases, flossules, maybe some flammable and good mitting talk, but the speech for the National Assembly wasn't. There were two questions here, at the beginning of the debate. First of all, whether it is true that the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the time when it was making these attacked decisions, made the decision without the opinion of the general session of the Supreme Court, or their argument that the reasons for ending the court's office had been fulfilled. So that's one question. At that time, the Committee on Justice and Administration informed the National Assembly, all MPs, that there was such an opinion, and the second question is whether the Assembly can determine its own illegality, or the counter-constitution of its decision, unless the Constitutional Court has previously established it. Mr Hiber, when explaining this proposal, said that the Committee for the First Justice and Administration had its jurisdiction to propose this to the Assembly to remove it from one provision of the Constitution (unfortunately, I do not have the Constitution to quote it to you, but I do remember how Mr Hiber said so), which speaks of the authority of the Assembly to abolish its decision, or the law, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court declaring this law unconstitutional. If analogy is drawn, then analogy must be consistent, then we had to have a Constitutional Court decision, declaring these decisions unconstitutional and against the law. Well, on the basis of the National Assembly's decision to put out of force. So there's one link missing in the chain in applying analogy. But here, the reason is quite different. This is about the motives that made you make this decision post-poo, not waiting for a procedure to assess the constitutionality of the decisions you've abolished, because the resolution of the judges, which is here, which is now regaining judicial status, was your main topic at the time when they were being resolved. I remember the Supreme Court Judge Vučetic, I think you'll forgive me if I'm wrong, or the Constitutional, however, who was a guest of some media at the time of the decision, explained to me what the illegality and unconstitution of those decisions were, and I remember former communist Prelevic, who was also resolved by one of these decisions. That, therefore, was one serious topic of your election campaign. If we look at the agenda of this session and the decisions made by this assembly, we can notice that almost every item of this agenda has been one of your topics in the election campaign. This is just about an extension of the election campaign, but unfortunately, in one stupid way, you've done it very foolishly. You have allowed opposition parties to criticise your decisions with a valid argument. It's not what you want to do, not what you did, it's what you do. You are now leaving an opportunity for someone to raise the constitutionality of this decision that we are making, so that the Assembly has to decide for the third time on the same issue. There's no constitutional court decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1071	With no more registered speakers, the word has a representative of the government, Minister of Justice, Mr Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1072	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has been mentioned that, in their own time, judges are relieved of decisions that need to be put out of force today because they have violated the provisions of Article 5. Court law. It alluded to some of their private business arrangements, their political or party belongings. There's no mention of that in those decisions. None of these judges were members of any political party, so these are just flat-rate findings, that's the reason. All these people were, more or less, members of the Society of Judges, one of the Esnafian, one of the cefowl organizations in the establishment. I must remind you that there are international conventions on the protection of the free and independent judiciary and that Yugoslavia was a signator of one of those conventions and that these conventions are allowed to associate judges, to protect the code of professional ethics, for protection, simplicity and constitutionality, which they are called to protect. It's all ignored. It was ignored because they were not at the will of the government at the time. Therefore, none of the conditions laid down in Article 5 have been met. It is not true, and someone should show that the General Session of the Supreme Court of Serbia, which is necessary when it comes to the resolution of judges, not the president of courts, was held on that occasion. We haven't cleared any of the judges today, of those mentioned as former presidents of the court. They're just moved from the president's seat to the judge. Exactly. Furthermore, the findings have been mentioned that the Assembly cannot put out of force decisions. Gentlemen, the Assembly has the power to do so. The Assembly is the most representative and legislative body. The assembly, by its decision, changes the laws, puts the law out of force. Therefore, it is absurd to claim that he can put out of force the law, and he cannot make a decision. Anyone who can do more can do less. It's one of the basic legal principles. But that's what it's like when everyone's in the right line of work, and those who may have gone past law school sometimes. So they were removed, and driven to the street, lost their jobs and without bread, several of Serbia's most prominent judges. Both the Constitution and the law have been passed through the will of the government. What we are doing now, and at the end of this third session, I must say on behalf of the Republic Government one sentence concerning all these laws that we have proposed. It's true, and that's what many people have seen, that it's putting it out of force. It is, gentlemen, because we're putting out the fires. The fires you've caused all over the place. And the Public Information Act was a fire, unrecorded in that area in Europe. Serbia has been transformed into a public-word concentration camp, into a media gulag. Radio TV law, which introduced a number tax, was also unrecorded in practice. A degree of privilege and privilege of the President of the Republic, as if he were an Egyptian Pharaoh, as if Rameses II. It is also unrecorded in the practice of European democratic countries. The provisions of the Law on its own transformation, which we had to amend, because the state began to sell itself as Alaibe's straw, for good. The former authorities, as well as the chairman of boards or directors of large enterprises, rushed to privatise the companies. So, we put out the fire, and when we resuscitate it by putting it out of force of those laws, then we'll get a chance to build a house, bring new, serious, valid laws. Given this point of the agenda, you know, there's still a Roman right that's older than all the positive laws, so on. Natural law. It's said, "Aelum et bonum est led legume" - "Justice and honesty are the highest law." We must correct the historical injustices that the previous government has done. That's why we suggested this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1073	The debate is not closed. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1074	Dear colleagues, Mr. Ivkovic cannot get his word now, because the debate is over. The president twice even found out there were no more reports. On the basis of Article 96. "When the president of the National Assembly finds that there are no more requests for participation in the search," he said. Mr. President found that there were no more reports and even twice concluded the search. All we have left is a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1075	Regardless, my fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, whom I am rooting for here, when it is established that there are no more applicants for participation in the search, the President of the National Assembly concludes the search. I realized there were no more reports. I counted on a gentleman's position by the MPs, that they would leave the final word to the government's representative. That's what logic and gentlemen call it. It doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure. That's why I realized there were no more registered speakers. But I didn't conclude the search, because in that case, even a member of the government couldn't speak. I'll put this to a vote, but I'm obliged to inform you that the objection does not stand. There's something else I have to say on this occasion, that something that is undoubtedly not necessarily necessary to change by voting and by the majority's opinion, and that most of it is clearly wrong. Please take care when we vote on this issue, that we do not make the same mistakes our predecessors made, no matter who will last speak at this session. Of course, I'll put it to a vote. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I put to the vote Mr. Shandor's proposal, which requires a decision to break the Rules of Procedure and that the debate is concluded. I find that 75, against 62, with 32 abstentions, did not vote 10. A total of 179 MPs. I find there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1076	Mr. President, we will vote again on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but this goes to your expense. You have violated the Rules of Procedure, Rule 105, and before the vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I will remind you, Mr. Ivkovic is not so much anymore, nor any more uncircumcised authority, that you would give him so much attention and importance, and that here as a spider comes for a pay phone and stops without you giving him a warning. In Article 105. The Rules of Procedure, which you too are obliged to respect, are being told to the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the President of the National Assembly, which is what Mr. Ivkovic has done more than once as head of the Parliament Group and my exit is the end of my patience and watching the violations of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. President, you must keep an eye on the Rules of Procedure and maintain the order of the session and not a single MP can approach the speaker without giving him a word. So I demand that there be a vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but this time on your part.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1077	I am convinced, Mr. Markovic, that I am just as fierce an opposition until yesterday, and today I am a member of a party in power as you are. Believe me, we can't even compete here. But I'm not even old enough to forget what I did three minutes ago, which is that I gave my word. I'm sorry to have to say this, but I have here and the assistants who confirmed it to me. I don't think there's any reason, especially since this session doesn't run its entire course in exactly the best way, so we can compete with each other about this kind of thing. You want me to put it to a vote? (Michilo Markovic, from the scene: No one heard you give the word.) Then we'll take a look at the stenogram, if that's okay with you. He's coming, 45 minutes... Thank you very much. Mr. Ivkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of today's work in front of all of you here in the auditorium, I read Article 92 of Section 2 and Section 5 and Article 96. From what I read, it was clear that a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has the right to address the Assembly three times, as well as the president of the parliamentary group, and is indeed in the right way and done when the debate is not closed, but when the word is given. I would like to say this, the last minutes of the Third Extraordinary Session of this Assembly may be the guideline for which this assembly should go, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if Mr. Ivkovic can do it three times, so can I, I guarantee you. Today, we MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have silenced one violation of the Rules of Procedure because you would misread it in the media, which are now under your control. In fact, you adopted one resolution today, I don't know what it was called, whose text we haven't seen, was read by the President of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1080	Mr. Nikolic, we haven't adopted any resolution. We've concluded that it's a joint statement and we're not opening a discussion about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1081	It wasn't in the agenda of this extraordinary session. There was a vote on something that wasn't on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1082	It wasn't voted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1083	How did you adopt?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1084	We didn't even adopt.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1085	You didn't adopt? So there is no statement by the Assembly regarding the events in Kosovo and Metohija. Just to warn you of something you may not notice in your intoxication with the number of MPs. The dictatorship can never be seen by the one who has the majority. The dictatorship is always seen by a minority, and I kindly warn you, as a member of the minority in this assembly, for these three days I see a dictatorship, almost equal to that of the blackest period of rule by the Socialist Party of Serbia, JUL and New Democracy. Thank you. (Serb Radical Party emissaries leave the assembly hall. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-14-0.u1086	Please, let's finish this rest of the work. Of course, this is a really big surprise that the Serbian Radical Party's MP group has left the session, since it voted in favour of most of the proposals that have been made here, at this session, as much as memory does not deceive me, although all the government's proposals have been accepted on their part. But that's their right, so we have to conclude a unique search and determine if we have a quorum to decide on. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I am putting the motion for a decision to put aside the decisions on judge's resolutions. For 126, against 29, 11 abstentions, three, a total of 169 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to put aside decisions on judge resolutions. I remind you that tomorrow, starting at 10.00 hours, a fourth extraordinary session is scheduled. I am concluding today's Third Extraordinary Session.
