ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11276	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to the official record of the MPs who reported their presence, 118 MPs attend today's session, and to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I would ask the Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the MPs. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units, please. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly has been established. I inform the National Assembly that they have announced the absence of the following MPs: Zaharija Trnavčević, Dragan Marsican, Natasa Micicic, Slobodan Tomović, Teodora Vlahović, Aleksandar Krstic, Bojan Pajtic, Živica Predojev, Miomir Tadic, Radic Joković, Karolj Kermeci, Milutin Svetović, Dusan Tubić, Vladan Jovičić, Ljubvoje Slavković, Olgica Kircanski, Jelena Milenković, Nada Kolundžija, Branislav Pomorijski and Zoran Boskovic. National MP Radomir Naumov announced a leave for the afternoon. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-President, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move on to the 8th point of the agenda: - Proposal for an Amendment Law and the Completion of the Law on the Construction of Objects (continuation) The word has a People's MP Alexander Vukic (by the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11277	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to ask you for some attention, it's not just any procedural mistake, Mrs. Comic, but I'd like to suggest something else, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 69(1) and (2), and given the special circumstances why we are not in a position to write to the National Assembly, I call on Members of Parliament to form a committee of inquiry, which, in accordance with Article 69(2), will therefore examine the situation in a particular area and determine the facts of certain occurrences and events. Last night, on state, national television, something happened that represents historic shame and disaster for the Serbian people. I am saying this primarily because of those who are not informed or who do not know it, and all day long, the hack and campaign against the Serb people, especially against the Serb people west of Drina, is the real hysterical propaganda of those who have always been known as the Serbians, who led a propaganda campaign against the Serb people, a certain Lesli, I do not know what it is called, is not in the extreme line or important. Mrs. Ruzdic, I know you're very glad that last night was on TV and don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11278	I ask the MP not to communicate with the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11279	Don't beg me, ask her to stop throwing it out of place.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11280	He also refers to the MPs in the messenger benches, the obligations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are not to be communicated from the bench and from the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11281	I call upon you to determine the committee of inquiry, to determine who it is who ordered it. We cannot ban private televisions from doing what they want, unless they brutally endanger national dignity of the people and the state, but I demand that such programs as was the Srebrenica programme last night are not broadcast from the national television programme, because it is a disgrace and a disgrace to the Serbian state, misery and what to the Serbian people. I ask that the facts be established, to see who is responsible for this crime against the Serb people, to see, to measure their guilt and to go, at the very least, to political responsibility, because it was done by people who had to have political responsibility both before the Government of the Republic of Serbia and before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If you do not accept this proposal to form a polling committee, please those who have influence from the DSS and DOS authorities, all of them, do something to end the hack against the Serb people, to end the hack against Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic, those who have defended the Serb people, who today are persecuted by you, as much worse beasts, than those of The Hague tribunal, who want their head. This is a disgrace, a disgrace to Serbia, and I'm asking you to accept the adoption of this polling committee, which I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11282	The MP is very well aware that the proposal for the composition and subject-matter of the committee of inquiry must be submitted in writing, as referred to in Article 129. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I will be pleased to consider the proposal for the composition of the polling committee, because the parliamentary group to which MP Aleksandar Vukic belongs does not participate in the work of the assembly committees, and I am glad that there will be one, in which MPs of all parties will participate. So, as the Rules of Procedure foresees, a written proposal, with a clearly defined task of the polling committee, before the Assembly, and the Assembly will declare it. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. We agree, so the written proposal goes into procedure. National MP Dragan Tomic came to the floor. He checked in with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11283	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, when we started working in the second half of January, we also established rules and methods, ways and rights of Members of Parliament. Their right to work and to participate in the work of this congregation. It's about Article 37, working in the parliamentary group. However, it is obvious that, in addition to being MPs from the opposition, we have to bear our work here, our daily distractions and threats lead to our feeling as citizens of the second order as people. Today I simply can't work in the Assembly because an unidentified group of 20 criminals broke into the premises of the SPS Municipal Committee, harassed five people, beat them, beat them, beat them. Well, what legal state is that? What legal state do you stand for? What does that look like?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11284	National MP Tomic cited the distraction of the work of the MPs by disrupting them in every way, if the MP heard an explanation, it would be the fulfillment of the Rules of Procedure to the end. So you find it impossible to work in the National Assembly because as a member of a Parliament club you have problems you treat as a disrespect for political rights. The National Assembly is no place to solve such problems as you do. We all have problems, among these problems are political rights and discrimination on various grounds. You have to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure more specifically. Otherwise, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. The strength and courage of politicians who choose to be an MP implies that you can concentrate on work despite such remethylative events, as other MPs have shown. People's MP Dejan Mihajlov, as president of the DSS parliamentary group, called in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11285	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Vukic has made a proposal and is that he has not been formulated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but it might not be a bad idea to think about it. I think it would be an interest of this assembly to establish a committee that will determine, check and clear the entire nation, to establish individual responsibility, if any, for all the crimes that have been committed. The exact number of crimes should be determined, if there are and that this is how this assembly simply determines itself according to the crimes in Srebrenica. It's not a question of doing it. It would be in the interest of this congregation. It should be said that if there was a crime, there were. They are like that, and they are like that. There were so many victims. The survey board should do so if it has the opportunity to do so, as it happened in another internationally recognised country, and it is a question of what the authorities of the Republic of Serbia are to interfere with the conduct of the investigation and all that is happening in the other country. But we would like to avoid the flat-rate charges at the expense of all Serbian citizens that they participated in the crimes that took place in Srebrenica. One civilizational achievement of criminal law is that criminal responsibility is individualised and that it is individual, that it binds to an individual, not to one collectiveity, such as all Serbian citizens, such as the Serbian people. So I'd like once, when it comes to all the victims that exist, to all the tombs that are being excavated, to all the bodies found, to individualize criminal responsibility. Because the whole Serbian people did not participate in this, and it is good to finally determine how many victims there were. They say the indisputable fact is that the victims in Srebrenica existed and we can accept that. But it is necessary to determine how many of these victims were and to know exactly who was responsible for all these victims, so that the whole people would not be responsible for it. That's what we don't need at this point, and we at the DSS think it's the wrong way to achieve, as some say, a catharsis of a nation and it's not good, but that with concrete facts and good suggestions it should come out. I believe that none of Serbia's people and none of Serbia's citizens will stand behind those who have committed crimes to any people we've been in conflict with all these years. But we want it to be true, and that is why the idea is to set up a survey committee that would go towards determining the responsibility of all those involved in the war activities at both the Republika Srpska and Yugoslavia. That'd be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11286	National MP Dejan Mihajlov reiterated the proposal, with a sentence in the act of exposure that he may not be according to the Rules of Procedure. I reiterated yesterday, as long as the president of the National Assembly, Mr. Dragan Marsicanin, has entrusted me with the presidency of this assembly, this is where I will be working on the Rules of Procedure. So, the MP who has a proposal to form a survey board will do so according to the Rules of Procedure, we will respect the procedure. We will have a description of the content of the affairs that this committee of inquiry, according to the idea of MP Aleksandr Vukic, needs to carry out and will go through all the procedures as required by the Rules of Procedure. If the National Assembly wants to make decisions beyond the Rules of Procedure and past the procedure of the National Assembly, then, unfortunately, or fortunately, there is no talker in me for such treatment. The decision on the polling committee may be made, but by procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Pavlovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11287	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising an injury to article 99. It seems that every start of the working day of the assembly should have few political parties or political parties in the pro-prom part. I think there are press conferences, and there's the possibility that these attitudes are being made public. Namely, I am reacting because this pay phone mentioned that Mrs. Leili Ruzdic, the MP of DOS, is glad that crimes have been committed or that they appear. This isn't the first time. It was mentioned the other day that someone is not a Serb, or that it is not the Serbs who received two-thirds of the votes in Serbia, and I think it is time to respond adequately in such a kind of insult that, however, is given before a wide audience and in the National Assembly. Neither is the campaign, but neither is the silence on crimes that should be the subject of political struggle. Everyone would probably like the real truth about it. But I'm afraid that since many of us still from Jasenovac count the victims and it interprets them differently, that we will have and that it will be a long time before we face what has really been done. Therefore, it would be ideal if one survey board could establish the truth and do the job. It's unfortunately very complicated and it's a very difficult job. But I believe that one democratic state and its judicial system, taking care of human rights, will in one process solve it. It's just a road so the victims won't be the instrument of political struggle. Because the use of victims for political struggle, regardless, is not even moral, so I don't say it's morbid, big talks on the tragedy of both our people and other peoples are making and collecting political points. I think with insults of this kind, we should really break up in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11288	Article 99, mentioned here, I will read all three views for the public: "The Members of the People are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly"; "The MPs are obliged to address one another with respect" and "It is not permitted to use offensive expressions, nor to make facts and assessments concerning the private lives of other persons". If we make a joint decision to strictly respect Article 99, all MPs, all 250 of us, then this assembly will deal with its work and we will send a message that we have decided to build the institutions of parliamentaryism. The MP stated that he had been violated on this occasion. He has been violated practically in almost every other appearance by MPs at the National Assembly and if we make insults, then we expect insults. If we do not respect the dignity of the National Assembly, then we cannot expect the people to respect us. Therefore, I would ask you, on behalf of the commitments we have made by obtaining mandates from the citizens of Serbia, that we all respect this Article 99 together. National MP Aleksandar Vukic, at the presentation of the MPs Dejan Mihajlov and Dragan Pavlovic, misreading.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11289	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I came out to say that it is not true and that the lie is what you said to Mr. Pavlovic. You made it up. I'll tell you what I said. I said, since she used to throw me and make it impossible for me to speak from this pay phone, I said it was obvious that she was pleased that it was a film broadcast, not that crimes were committed against anyone or that crimes are hiding or not hiding, or anything else, and don't make it up. That's your intention, to keep running the chase, because tonight your ten humanitarian rights funds are going to press charges against the Wolf and who else knows who, because you think it's the only policy you can make up, falsifying the truth, saying what no one from this pay phone has ever said.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11290	I ask the People's Messengers not to get from the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11291	Check the stenogram. Exactly, yes, it's your policy, your policy of lies, your policy of fiction and nothing else. This is about something else. Not that anyone wants to amnesty someone who committed a crime, but that we want to amnesty the Serbian people from what you attribute to them, that the whole people are criminal, that we are all criminals and that all Serbian heroes, that all Serbian heroes are criminals.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11292	I ask MP Vukic not to make any claims that are personal views. Please, MP, what you're saying is a personal attitude relating to the private life of another person, a violation of Article 99(3). This is a warning before a warning and please make...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11293	Why do I have a warning warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11294	Because you express attitudes relating to the private life of others. There is no way that you from your personal point of view that the Serbian people are guilty of speaking on behalf of the majority. You can speak for yourself, that you think the whole Serbian people are guilty. It's your right. The Serbian people have been amnesty for a year and have never been guilty.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11295	It's not the Serbian people's fault, but it's your fault that you're trying to impose guilt on him, which you're saying is Karadzic and Mladic and all the other Serbs who are heroes, not criminals and culprits. It's your fault, not mine, and not the whole Serbian people. Please, these people of yours who are banging on the bench, what they're getting, calm them down. I don't know what they're so nervous about, which is all they care about is one survey board that will determine who's running that anti-Serb hysteria, who's leading that hunt against the Serb people, who are those people who want to destroy the Serbian people. Neda Arneric, from the scene: You're lying. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11296	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn, and I ask the People's Messenger Alexander Vukic to complete the replica with polite conduct.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11297	I have to say that I have not learned by now, but I find it interesting that Mrs Arnerić swears from the bench and speaks the worst possible words, but that speaks of you, Mrs Arneric. Neda Arneric, from the scene: No, I said you were lying. This is just what he says about you, about the accident you want to impose on the Serbian people, about the misery and what you've already given him. Don't yell 'cause you won't scare me. You are just anti-Serb mice, who will soon be in history because you are the worst in the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11298	In his reply, the MP insulted other MPs, and therefore received a warning from the Rules of Procedure, Rule 101, before warning. I ask the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to remember that we have both rights and obligations, duties and responsibilities. Our rights and our obligations are to use the Rules of Procedure. It is our duty not to put our emotional tones into something that other political parties suggest. The theme with an anecdote committee and a proposal has been completed. The written proposal will enter the procedure of the Assembly and there is no reason for a terrible topic to be a political campaign, as there is no reason to make a campaign out of political untrues. That's what survey committees do to avoid political campaigns. The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 98 of Section 2 has been injured because these fugitives, who are now coming out of the room, have interrupted the speaker behind the pay phone. Aleksandar Vukic, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, will submit a written proposal during the day. We will consult the presidents of the other parliamentary groups. We do not insist on any equality of parliamentary groups. Let it be in line with the number of MPs, as many of us as there are, but this dualism in Serbia can no longer be endured. We have a power that has no unique view of what is happening in Serbia. On the one hand, we have an ever-insolent, more and more brazen part of the government, more and more alienated than the Serbian part of the government, the more sold part of the government to various lobbys, and since yesterday, we see Muslim lobbys that are no longer ashamed of anything. Why should Serbian children yesterday fear what will happen to the Serbian people by watching...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11300	I ask the MP not to express his views on the life of other persons. He has no idea how Serbian children feel and I ask you to take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11301	I don't know how Serbian children feel? Let's shut up once, shame on you. I don't know how Serbian children feel, and you know it? The sick kids are scared watching...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11302	If you tell me -- you know, I can tell you exactly that I know how four Serbian children I've born feel.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11303	I know how many more Serbian children feel than four. I know how hundreds of thousands of Serbian children fear such authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11304	Well, you don't know, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11305	And you only care about your four children.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11306	You don't know how Serbian children feel, and I warn you that you don't bring out attitudes about the lives of other people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11307	You didn't come to the assembly to take care of your children and talk about how your children feel? In the desire to prove that you deserve a charity, you sell to the state day by day, you sell to the Serbian people. Tell me who committed the crimes. Do you even know that all villages from Srebrenica to Bratunac, Serbian and Muslim, are all burned? There's no difference, no difference. That was the war. Whoever entered the village burned and killed and you will find only guilt on the Serbian people. It is not said there, but Serbs, Serbs, Serbs only commit crimes and you are looking at Serbia's Radio-Television. Turn the satellite onto Sarajevo, Muslim TV, turn the satellite on HTV, watch Croatian and Sarajevo TV, if you are interested in lies about Serbs. We won't put up with it on Serbian television. We won't take it if you're human, and if you believe in world justice, don't accuse just one people. If you are Serbs, don't just accuse the Serbian people. Blame everything, name everything, do whatever you want, but don't put all our generations on the historical guilt that we're guilty of war, don't dig up the Serbian country without a building permit, look for corpses yet from World War II, to portray them as atrocities. So say, this man and this man committed this crime, that one and that one buried thousands of people...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11308	Three minutes and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11309	I want to know where the Serb killed and buried, and not all Serbs. You should be struck by words from this pay phone, like slaps. I'm just waiting for who's gonna make the most of the noise, and it's affecting this policy that's going on right now. What are you serving now, your leaders, where are your leaders today? In the armored cars...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11310	Four minutes, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11311	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today you will have the opportunity to plead whether you will be a committee of inquiry or not, it will be a test of your conscience and your morality.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11312	As every time the right to abuse is exercised in the Rules of Procedure, I ask the MPs to be heard through the use and abuse of the Rules of Procedure, a political strategy is formed and an attempt to achieve political goals. In doing so, it is not allowed to speak out of the box to be false, to treat other MPs without respect and not to respect the private life of other persons, especially it is not allowed to violate the Rules of Procedure in time and, in particular, not to be allowed to ask the parliamentary majority to respect the Rules of Procedure and to behave culturally, when it belongs to a minority who does not do so. The fact is that the polling committee process is completed in this assembly hall, and will be tolerated and democratic debate, will be respected. The facts are all these, and the comments are free. Please keep all MPs on the facts when they express their views. The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure, did you see me at all that I had answered? Do you have anything new on the Rules of Procedure besides this? You do, then go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11313	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Article 1 has been broken. The Rules of Procedure, and since Mrs Comic said that the president is in absentia, that Dragan Marsican authorised her to represent the National Assembly, Mrs Comic, is necessary in accordance with Article 1. The Rules of Procedure and with all the members of the Rules of Procedures that you adopted three months ago in this assembly, to allow MPs to use their parliamentary rights and to speak about the facts, the truths, what pains them and what the voters have sent them here for. What happened in the last half hour is a real picture and opportunity of those who represent 100 and more and voters who sent them, who unfortunately make up most. The general secretary of our party and the MP Aleksandar Vukic, speaking about what is most frightening and what happened on state television last night, and at the same time on many local televisions, including on TV Kragujevac, which is financed from the City Assembly budget, spoke about the synchronised functioning of political parties that are now governmental, who have presidents on that board of directors of RTS, who appointed the director of RTS, who broadcast such disgusting lies about the Serbian people and what we did defending Serbian and national interest, west of Drina. The first member of the Rules of Procedure says that the MPs are here and that this Rules of Procedure by which we report protect the rights and obligations of the MP. The obligation of the SRS MPs is to protect the interests of the voters who sent us here. Voting for the SRS and the SRS list, Vojislav Seselj, voters in Serbia knew they were voting for those who had been protecting Serbia's national interest for 10 years, who had west of Drina and Danube tens of thousands of their volunteers, and many of them died with honor and defended Serbian national interest. Do not prevent us from, using the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, talking about what we are and where we were and where you were all along. Let us, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, expose and disclose everything that we have and today, are packed by Americans and Western forces, which have been supporting you for 10 and more years and whose help you have come to power here. If you don't understand what we're saying and we're telling the Serbian people, come and count us, one by one, then send criminal charges and come to the Republic Square tomorrow at 1800 hours to hear...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11314	Three minutes, I remind the MP of the rights, duties and obligation to report to the Rules of Procedure for three minutes. The word has Slobodan Janjic, followed by Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, I am not going to talk to you about the DOS non-democratic government on this occasion, and we're all going to talk about it together on Friday, 13. Seventy-seven. In 2001, at 6:00 p.m. in the Republic Square. Gentlemen, what you're throwing, what you've organized the Day of Pride for DOS, you've got your nose on it. Let us now organize citizens to say what they think of you. DOS authorities are constantly focusing their inability to run this country on a second track, i.e. He invents some new additions to existing laws, and only in the act of punishing citizens with enormous fines and tax obligations. In this bill of law, you've gone so far as to provide for citizens up to three years in prison for illegal construction and so forth. If we all know that this is the same government, that is. DOS under the name of the coalition "Together" was in power in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Čačka, Kragujevac, etc. where he lives and works, and he also builds, two-thirds of Serbian citizens, then you blame two-thirds of the camels of the former coalition "Together", and now DOS. Those who know this problem know that two-thirds of the buildings built do not have a building permit or use consent, and such facilities include residential buildings, schools, health homes, bridges, even one of our thermal power plants does not have the necessary permits. Are we going to destroy these facilities or ban their work or move the tenants of these buildings out? What especially characterizes the situation in this area is that 80% of the houses are built by workers and peasants, in our case the poorest citizens of Serbia. If we know that our poor, i.e. Citizens, even when they start building, do so in phases, i.e. First, a basement or ground floor is built, and there's a worker who moves in that little poor girl who has and puts his children there, and then for a few years he saves every penny to finish the construction. By this law you predict that such facilities will not be able to connect water, electricity, sewerage and phone until the facility meets all the conditions that you provide for this bill, i.e. until the technical reception of the facility is carried out. It's practically inconclusive. Where do you want people for all that time? It's easy for you to be in power, you've solved your problems. There's no lady here. She's been legalizing 600 square feet in the last six months. She can talk about a law like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11316	I ask the People's MP not to address the MPs in the benches, and I ask the MPs from the MPs' benches not to speak to the speaker, regardless of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, he speaks to the MPs. Excuse me, sir, and proceed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11317	I'm asking you to return the time for a minute, as far as I'm concerned. (President: 10 seconds you'll get, so long is one sentence. You're the only one who spoke 20. Leave it to your measuring time. Gentlemen of the DOS, this is the attitude towards citizens. Our modern martyrs, who have not been fortunate enough to get an apartment from the state, are also inhuman for every conviction. One responsible authority would call on citizens to carry out legalisation and the completion of the starting facilities at minimum prices, in order to provide as many people as possible with housing. As you do rarely, a worker will be able to resolve his living issue because none of them have the resources to suddenly finance the entire building and pay for all the contributions to the state. You gentlemen have begun to share apartments with the D.O.S.'s worthy officials, even though they don't have a work book yet. I didn't know there was an expression of transparent silence in Serbian about awkward topics. You're doing it right now. Gentlemen, you've introduced so many taxes and taxes to citizens that they're the only ones who can't pay through the price of electricity, participations in health care, communals and various taxes. And despite the fact that you've been making a huge amount of money from citizens, you've never had enough. In 95% of the municipalities in power is DOS. Order local self-governments to urgently do regulatory plans and then under favourable conditions, with minimum administrations and low price, offer citizens locations for building residential and business facilities. (President: 5.40 minutes. ) I think that all citizens with a committee would welcome one such law and the problem of wild construction would be reduced to a small number of extreme cases, which the law would sanction. (President: 6.10 minutes. ) If you would like to give this example of the transparent consistency of DOS authorities, start with Deputy Prime Minister Joseph Kasa, who Mr. Pal Shandor has been claiming for seven years to be a world record player in the abduction of city building land and wild construction. Do this transparently, so the citizens really see your transparent consistency in action. (President: 6.20 minutes. In addition, by paying the state taxes and contributions, citizens expect, with the right, that the state solves a part of these problems. You're really the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11318	The People's MP Milos Nesovic has the word, followed by the MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11319	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, preparing for this item of the agenda - the amendment and addition of the Construction Act, I tried to understand, to read the current Law on the Construction of Objects. I can tell you, and that's confirmed by the debate and the proponent himself, that the current law has solved many things in building objects very well. When I say that she confirmed the debate, no one has made major objections to the law so far, and the motion does not change anything in the law, but these three points where she introduces criminal responsibility in relation to all the facilities that were built without permission or are being built cannot be connected to a telecommunications network, plumbing and sewerage. Also, Article 52a and Article 52b sanction again, as a criminal offence, construction or if a natural person or an authorised person in a legal person, yes, consent to such accession, will be punished for four years. Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, I take the Law on the Construction of Objects very seriously. The law can greatly affect the development of the Republic of Serbia. This law, if something is wrong with it, can leave far-reaching consequences in the development of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about the law and about illegal or illicit construction, we usually immediately associate housing and, above all, individual houses. However, I think the problem is very complex and much more complex when it comes to building economic infrastructure. I must mention that there is a lot of guilt here put on the previous government and, as I have heard, certain powerful men who have been illegally building. There's probably some, but I don't see it on the inside. With me, in the King, the powerful are private entrepreneurs who made hotels, houses, swimming pools, production programs and, believe me, they didn't work without permission. They've got licenses on their hands. They had money. A large number of our citizens who are on the lowest scale much easier to opt for to build a house than to obtain some documentation, to face the problems of obtaining documentation. You know what all the problems are to get a useful license, what the documents need to get and what it has to pay for. I know that because I worked in one company where I had a whole service that worked on obtaining the necessary documentation, in Telekom Srbija, for building radio relay systems, base stations, for laying optical cables, etc. I have to tell you, we have a lot of objects that don't have a license, they don't even have a license, but they're functional. Therefore, I think that a completely different solution could be found, to prescribe one procedure, since it is within the jurisdiction of local self-government, to form those permits, to reduce the amount to be paid by citizens. And today there's a lot of abuse of investors. If we have a general urban plan, and it's not worked out, then we'd have to create an urban project that affects most of that populated town of the general urban plan. (President: 5.30 minutes. I must say one more thing: The king is one of the most beautiful cities in the Republic of Serbia, known for its true streets, as Chicago does. Urbanism was set up by farmer Jova Saric, and that's how it was done. The king has had the Together Coalition in power since 1996. (President: 6 minutes. We already have a different situation. We have buildings that have building permits, where the construction line is located across the sidewalk, and the terraces are located on the streets. Therefore, it is not the previous rule that is to blame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11320	The word has a folk MP, Hranislav Peric, followed by Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11321	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr. Vice President Maraviæ, I have another law with me that has only been amended or amended into several members. When I read the agenda for this session and saw that the agenda point refers to the construction law in Serbia, I thought - e, after a long time they decided to start working and it is time not to deal with the past. I thought -- they made a new law based on democracy, which has a newspaper compared to the existing law. A law that has been done professionally, a law with a European newspaper in the construction work, a law with which we will enter Europe, a law, as you often say, which leads Serbia a new path. I thought, at last, one good law that will resolve that citizens can get permission as quickly as possible and for less money, that every other person, worker and farmer, can get their license. When I opened the proposed law, I had what to see. He's breaking the law again with a few members. I knew there was a rat government, but I didn't know about the law. Everything that is professional and important for the citizens remains from the old laws made by the Socialists. The papers proposed and proposed by the new government -- ten times the fines (from 50,000 to 450 thousand) and up to three years in prison for Serbian citizens building without a building permit. It's good, but you admit that the previous law was good, because you didn't do better, or the government didn't have time for that, because it deals with digging up tombs in Serbia. The acceptance of 90% of the old law is also a recognition for our president of the MP club, Mr Banet Ivkovic, who was the building minister at the time of the construction and addition of this law, as well as for my esteemed colleague, Slobodan Pavlovic, who was then deputy minister of construction. The law they did, while they were in office, you only added to the penalty measures for Serbian citizens (and that's thirty times the fine) as well as to prison for citizens of Serbia who are building without a building permit. It's called justice and honesty. The prison for members of the government and the Minister of Justice of Batic, which does not respect the law and violates the constitution, is not foreseen, although they have sworn not to do so. In the end, I am pleased that you will finally vote for the 90% of the laws that we had and did and that worked. We, the Socialists, will not vote, because you have completed it with high fines, as well as jail time for Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11322	The People's MP Marijan Risticevic has the word, followed by MP Ernjakovic Milan.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11323	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Construction of Objects is on the agenda. That was the least discussed today. In the debate so far, the culprits have also been identified, the former government claims to be the culprit of DOS. Apparently, local self-government where the government has held opposition, or DOS party, in the last three or four years, is responsible for building hundreds of thousands of buildings. Either that, or they think that in six months under DOS rule, hundreds of illegally built buildings were created. If first, they should be reminded that they held power in more than 150 municipalities, and that the democratic opposition held power, perhaps, in 30 municipalities. In a few cases, they introduced a forced administration. Those who have caused chaos in the building, who have contributed to the construction of many wild objects, are today the most accusing of us. They forget that they were in power for 10 years, that they held power in local self-government over 150, and that they had a building minister who gave the final word. They think the Martians have ruled in the last 10 years. Or maybe they think the people have such short memories, that they don't know who's responsible for illegally built buildings. This law has tightened some of the measures, so it has more severe criminal provisions and I welcome it. This mess has got to end. An MP from Beocin condemned the law, speaking of the poor woman - the poor woman will not be able to build objects, as difficult to obtain a permit. The other one said that only one hundred and a quarter got a license. Why? So if only the fourth one got permission, it means it was a bribe, and you were in power, it wasn't us. Beocin's MP said that the poor woman would not be able to build, and it would be good if he said that his factory, or factory in his town, delivered a cement at a price of 50 marks per tonne. But the poor woman paid the same cement from 150 to 180 marks. So they took care of the poor girl, how to get to the house cheap. Well, please, a 50-dollar cement, the poor man pays 180. In recent years, they've taken a difference of over 300 million marks. It would have been fair to say how much building wild objects, illegal construction, cost that same poor thing. Of course, he didn't want to talk about 300 million marks that were untraceable. It's not hard to guess who shared it. If this law had been before, I think at least one of the two or three ruling parties of the former government would be in prison right now. The sessions of these boards of directors, the Father's Administration, would certainly have been held in prison. One party has the custom of sharing blues in a municipality, wherever it sees a fertile field. That's what worries me. Huge surfaces... And if I were in the zoo where would you be? Huge areas of agricultural land have disappeared by dividing cheap, allegedly cheap wages. Salaries are divided into the most fertile fields, 10km away from the settlement, without electricity, without water, without anything. The agricultural land law says that such buildings cannot be built on land from first to fifth grade, on agricultural land. This party shared wages precisely on such land, which was contrary to the Agricultural Land Act. The building minister was Bane Ivkovic, as I recall. He didn't do anything about this illegal change of purpose being pre-warned and condemned. The way they did it-- the poor girl was getting plaques in the fields. And there's one who taught us theology for five hours, theology, patriotism, stories of heart, famous communists from the past; now it's not there, almost dissipated the fork, saying that individuals are getting a bigger income on these gardens. And what's his garden? (President: five minutes and 30 seconds. His garden was a swimming pool, I guess he thought he was fishing. So So Zemun assigned to the permanent use of Danica Seselj from Batajnica, Street of the Posavski Squad number 36, a 750-metre-square-square plot, on which she built the facility in less than a year and was granted a license on 4 October 2000. (President: five minutes and 50 seconds. Unlucky date. She got a valid permit on a house of 12 bedrooms, three bathrooms, two garages, a total of 437 square meters. (President: six minutes. So much for their pawning for the poor. Thank you. She got a valid permit on a house of 12 bedrooms, three bathrooms, two garages, a total of 437 square meters. [[Applause]] So much for their pawning for the poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11324	There's a word from MP Stevan G. Guduric. - Replica. ( b) What is the basis for replication? I ask the People's Messengers not to question the intelligence and consciousness of their colleagues, that he knows what the basis is for replication and that you let him answer me what the basis for replication is. National MP Marijan Risticevic said: "One MP from Beocin has condemned the law and the poor won't be able to build it." We can look at the stenogram and see if that's true. Part of the cement is the part that MP Marijan Risticevic expressed in his presentation, as a regret that you did not talk about it. Therefore, he cannot misread you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11325	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Comrade Hitler, since that's all I remember from that, from what he's been saying for the past few months, when he talked about Hitler, he said some things here that I didn't mention here. I didn't talk about that law, which is now in that context, I didn't praise the law, but I didn't talk about it in that context. I never talked about Beocinska cementar the way he talked, but when I went out for a pay phone, let me say those things that you mention (you are Comrade Micovic, you can come out and rephrase me).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11326	I ask the People's MPs not to speak from the MP's bench and the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11327	There was controversy here over some things, and we should start being ashamed that the television paid by this state of Serbia, spits on Serbs, below, and never think of Markale and why it all started, why we went to the well for ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11328	I ask the MP to focus the contents of the replica on what the replica refers to.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11329	I'm replicating. And Comrade Hitler was talking about broad terms and all that, so why don't I have a right, when I replicate to him, to talk about what?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11330	National MP Stevan Guduric must know that other people's stupidity and culture do not justify their own. Please stick to the contents of the replica on the presentation of the speaker Marijan Rističević. I ask MP Tomislav Nikolic not to throw himself out of the bench, since, as an expert expert on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he knows that this is the behavior that constitutes a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, MP Guduric, you have 45 seconds longer, due to interruptions in the presentation, and to return to the contents of the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11331	Well, since you've wasted half my time, I'll give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11332	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Milan Ernjakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to address you and impose your attention on one opinion and the fact that this law, which is on the agenda today, I accept with a positive contactation and with the goal and belief that it will bring order, which has not yet been entered. It was not the very fact, as we can see from the presentation of previous MPs, that in the Republic of Serbia there were 700, 900, and even up to a million buildings built, irregularly or unlawfully. In order to stand in the way, and break that bonding thread, there is a necessity and a need to pass one of these laws. What I wanted to say under 2) about this law - in order for it to have positive connotations and that it would bring a certain order and schedule of action, I would just like to point out and ask Mr. Minister to answer me, but with one particular accuracy - will this law have a retrograde fact? Because if it is said that it will not have a retrograde fact, at point 1, it is explained: "the building facility, whose construction is completed without a building permit, cannot be connected to an electrical, telecommunications network, plumbing and sewerage. "So, it's about, Mr. Minister, the facilities that have already begun. Please, Mr. Minister, listen carefully and answer me. This is why - I have received many questions from people who have come, not by their own free will, to these areas, i.e., they were expelled from their hearths in 1995, where they were 700 years on their hearths, in Republika Srpska Krajina, specifically, in northern Dalmatia, Lica, Kordun, Banija and western Slavonia. Because this country, this Republic of Serbia, has had these dramatic events, in the last ten years, that refugees began to arrive in 1990 and 1991, exiles in 1995, due to "Blash" on 1 May 1995 in Western Slavonia, "Storms" in August 1995, and displaced persons in 1999, from Kosovo and Metohija, bombing and all other evils, without talking about sanctions, which were introduced in 1992. So, when I applied for this item of the agenda, I had an obligation and a duty, because I belong to the people of Republika Srpska, from the area of Kordun, who came and humiliated, and crippled, and crippled, who since 1991 occupied facilities and restaurants, and hotels, and resorts, which, unfortunately, (I mean here on exiles) came to them with a bare arm with one bag in his hand, without dinars, who somehow survived with a gray economy, so that some of the mechanics from Croatia would come to sell them their houses, which were not accidentally burned down, so objects, auxiliary facilities, houses and gardens, sold for example. for 30,000 marks, or 30,000, as they like to say, but that cost about 300,000. However, they were forced to sell because they could live here, that is, to educate children, if they had no more funds to pay rent, sub-units, which were 300, 250, 200 marks. They were building buildings, where they were also buying posters from the third party, which they bought from the first and second ones, and they also cost 10, 12 to 15,000 marks, they didn't have a parallel permit, they didn't have a building permit. He built an object with two or three rooms, to accommodate a family, where they lived for three generations, from 80-year-olds, middle-generation, from children, and also from grandchildren. Three rooms, it's a hard life, a hard life, because until then they lived in the collection centers, where they used to be in the sports hall 80 to 100. I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister, and to ask me if, with all due respect, this law will have a positive connotation...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11334	It's not about my permission. It's about our mutual obligation. I ask the MP of the People's Parliament to not throw him out of the bench because it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11335	Since the law has positive connotations, it will be able to correct itself, it will be able to correct itself. I would ask the minister to respond to my part on the repressive measures for one year, or three years of punishment. The part relating to 50,000 to 450,000 dinars of fines, since I'm talking about an orphanage that takes up 90-95% of these objects, you have only five or 7% of those who stick their eyes out and prey on their big houses and fairies from several floors, so that people like that don't have to pay 100,000 in someone else's pocket, simply so that this law doesn't apply to the poor woman who's deeply punished, who's had a gogoth, has been hit by all the accidents. Well, don't let this law happen and I'll try to crash. I would ask you, Mr. Minister, to address what I was talking about in order for the public to be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11336	There is the word of the People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic, let Zlatan Jovanovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11337	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, three days in principle, we are discussing this legislative project, the amendment and addition of the Law on the Construction of Objects, which was written and given by the Minister of Urbanism and Building Prof. Dr. Dragoslav Šumarac. What can be explained in one single word, this whole legal project, and which, however, young in their new speech, interprets differently, but we must interpret it as it originally means. This whole legal project is one big mess. Bruca is because he's rigid, repressive and, however, retroactive. One of the opposition MPs said it was good for this law, however, that it is not retroactive. It seems that some new times are coming, after a session in 1988, when the authorities of those who lost at that 8th session, that the time of rematch is coming, and that of the open ones that they exhibit, they don't even hesitate. They tell us this law will only be good because it is not retroactive. He's unfortunately retroactive, though. It is retroactive because of Article 1 and its correlation with Article 8. I will be free to quote both Article 1 and Article 8 which reads: "The facility that is being built, or whose construction is completed without a building permit, cannot be connected to the power grid, or telecommunications network, plumbing and sewerage", and Article 8 reads: "This law takes effect on the eighth day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I'm sure DOS is in a hurry, that the official messenger has already been printed and will be released to the public tomorrow and waiting for that eighth day, and evidence that he is retroactive is this particular member. More than 700,000 buildings are said to have been illegally built or wildly built. If the building facility, which is not finished, cannot be connected, there is evidence of its retroactivity, its ultimate rigidity and repressivity. If nothing else, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it's impossible that none of you can remember or recall that thousands and thousands of our citizens, the pirates who work abroad, every year's vacation when they come to our country, bring money to our country, give their parents money to build objects, and they return abroad to work further. How are they going to do that, ask Professor Dragoslav Schmartz. Let him explain it to them and explain to them the DOS government. What is retroactive, one of the MPs from DOS, from this parliamentary group that has been added to the Democratic Party, in which one member of the national minority has complained because this law is not retroactive and has advocated the destruction of illegally built objects. I will remind him that he, as a representative of the national minority, must remember something called economic migration, when from the early 1970s, from all areas known geographically as Vojvodina, there was a settlement of members of the national minority in eight municipalities in northern Serbia. Coming to northern Serbia's cities, 90% of these people were building facilities, getting along, detached from their own and their family's mouths, to build a roof over their heads, and they managed as they knew and knew it. Whether the MP advocates that for everything they have done, and in particular in Subotica, there is no regulation plan, thousands of buildings have been built, the city has spread so widely, they have been built without right and wild. People have found their way, they have a roof over their heads. They live and work in this country, will it collapse on them? You DOS guys have to explain that to them. It has been said that some 700,000 buildings were built illegally and wildly. He was looking for the guilty one. SRS MPs said it was an impeccable local self-government, and DOS MPs said it was the previous regime's fault. In particular, representatives who are now in the DOS have been in power since 1992. Then, too, they were opposition to the SPS regime and later, in 1998, to Serbian radicals in power. This same local administration, due to its impeccableness, due to its sloppyness, has been very slow to resolve the requirement for obtaining a building permit and all other permits, and thus legalization. If DOS had gone out with one member and said that everything that was under construction, that a request would be filed, that one automation would be legalized and that it would not come under the influence of this law, you would have found a favourable response in the people. But the fact is he's retroactive, rigid and repressive. Article 2 in a very plastic way, my predecessor told you that, here's how DOS is going to solve the refugee issue. If refugees could not resolve their status solution under Milosevic, that is, obtaining citizenship, the DOS now has solutions for them. Physical individuals who are investors and who built it, she, without citizenship, cannot seduce their houses into land books and thus legalize them, the DOS will all these refugees will put them in jail for three years. All your faith, and good for you. Brooke. So I'm saying that this law is a mess, and that's why I call on Serbia: Serbia wakes up and comes to a rally tomorrow, a patriotic rally at 6:00 in the Republic Square, to say there's plenty of DOS, DOS is the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11338	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, after which Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11339	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I'm going to make a few things, a few remarks that should help to make this law work, fix, or make a whole law that will definitely be regulated by this government. My layman's opinion is, since I'm not in the profession, the observation that this law has lines of repressivity and that it's retroactive. This retroactivity is reflected in Article 1 where it is said that the building facility, or whose construction is completed without permission, cannot be connected to the power grid and telecommunications. So all the objects that are completed without permission can no longer be used and used. So they have to collapse. It's retroactivity. Repressivity is seen in other members of this law, where drastic prison sentences are also provided for those who invest in such facilities and for those who invest works on such facilities. I'm in touch with people who are dealing with this problem and I've learned a few things. First, the Law on the Construction of Objects regulates the process of obtaining urban building permits. Therefore, according to the profession, this law on the construction of buildings should be reprocessed in the sense that the process of obtaining these permits should be accelerated and simplified. We have a problem with our citizens most often because they can't or very difficult to get to these permits, documents, resorting to so-called. wild or illegal construction. The second act, i.e. the law relating to this area, is the Law on spatial planning and arrangement of space or settlement, which must also be observed together and must comply with this previous law. This law must regulate the procedure for the adoption of plans in a single way, i.e. to simplify the procedure for the adoption of the planning documentation, and in particular I mean regulatory plans, meaning according to our municipalities and cities. In fact, the largest number of municipalities and cities have no planned documentation, so for these reasons we have great problems in terms of obtaining previously mentioned building permits. The third law that would have to be observed within the framework of this is the Law on the Post-Publishment of Construction and Use of Permissions or so on. The Law on Legalization of Objects. This law exists and regulated legalisation, i.e. the legalisation process of the facilities built by 4.11.1995. This is now controversial, because it is difficult to determine which objects were built by that date, which then remains a question of what with the facilities that were built after that date. On the other hand, this is the first member I've already quoted and excluded to apply the last Law on Legalization. It does, therefore, exclude, because it is impossible to put into office, firstly, to legalise objects that have been illegally built in accordance with this law on legalisation, because the first member of the proposal does not allow it to be used. I believe that it was necessary to give citizens the opportunity to get a chance to come to the necessary documentation, urban and construction permits much faster and easier, and then access these repressive measures. In fact, citizens are at least to blame that such a large number of objects have been built illegally. They were able to do so in this situation as well as in the way they could. The state is most guilty, and I think primarily of local self-government, but also of other authorities of the state because this process and procedure are not simplified, so it was not more accessible for citizens to be able to build their facilities more easily. Therefore, it was necessary first to give citizens a chance, and only then to move on to these repressive measures. How problematic this law is, that is, this proposal before us, says an appeal to citizens who have been threatened by the proposed rules on the ban on construction, which I have received and which lists some of the problems that citizens, who are affected by this law, are facing. I'm going to quote just one piece of that appeal sent to me as a MP. "According to the current regulations for the legalisation of buildings, which have been built without the necessary documentation when it comes to Belgrade, it is necessary to obtain the following documents: proof of ownership, a copy of the plot plan with the recorded facility, a contract concluded with the Directorate for Building Land, a report on the purpose of the plot, three copies of the project documentation, etc. Instead of bringing new democratic authorities new regulations that would simplify legalisation, given that some documents can never be obtained, for example copies of a plan with a recorded building cannot be obtained, because according to building regulations, it cannot be recorded until the facility is legalised. These and other administrative obstacles were not invented by citizens who build their own resources, but rather by failing urbanists and all other competent authorities of the state who did nothing to meet the most necessary needs of citizens." Therefore, this law should be withdrawn from the procedures, that all these laws that regulate this area should be fully processed and brought before this assembly with a new proposal for a comprehensive, comprehensive law. The people should not be punished; the people are already punished enough. In the end, tomorrow at 1800 hours, a great patriotic rally in the Republic Square. I know you do, but also citizens who are not informed that they know how to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11340	I ask the People's Messenger to stick to the subject, and the other Messengers of the people not to gain. The People's Messenger Joca Arsic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, George Mamul.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11341	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, Your Honor, although you are a quarter of the presidency, you seem impromptu, I can tell you. We have received only one part of the bill that was intended, and it seems to me, in the beginning, to comply with the criminal provisions provided for in earlier laws, as stated here in 1995, 1996 and 1997, and this would not be disputed if it were just a matter of harmonisation, because a lot of these amounts provided for by the laws at that time were devalued should be harmonised and compared to a specific restrictive criminal policy. However, this law also suspends some of the existing laws by introducing criminal provisions, with arguments that are unmistakable and completely inadequate, which have been heard here, at least when it comes to Article 1 of the new Article 43a. The facility to be built, or whose construction is completed without a building permit cannot be connected to an electrical and telecommunications network, plumbing and sewerage. I don't think we could have made a bigger nonsensus. What was only available and paid for in the first construction of buildings, if it was housing and facilities of another kind, by fitting into municipal infrastructure facilities, we were only able to charge the water connection fee at the facility that was built without permission or ended without permission. The only way we could have charged the connection fee to the power system, and we were only able to charge the phone connection that in most cases, in 99% in this Serbia citizens built with their own personal participation. This law puts him in such a position as to buy numbers that he can put wherever he wants in his backyard and install a taiphone machine, to punish not only him today, but also the one he contracted, which is often done by local communities, funds with the consent of PTT. These contracts have been jointly developed and a network has been built and a telephone connection has been enabled. This law puts it under suspicion and punishes itself and thus approves such a connection. I think it's out of my mind and for those of you who built a normal facility without permission. Oneko was working on the draft of this law, I join the predecessor, it was supposed to be a procedure, which in some things is complicated, it's problematic, it's simple. Is the problem of the other part of the process, as the building inspector brings a solution, warns that the documentation is being prepared, the procedure takes a little longer when it starts with complaints, objections and the procedure allows those who are able to build the facility faster, to build it already until the procedure is completed. Those deadlines are a normal month, two months and longer. If that procedure had been shortened, this law, which is said to be not bad and there are some shortcomings, I would understand as correcting the old law and legalization, allowing people to get to a permit easier without talking about other complications. If you have arranged construction plots are built on a construction park with several owners, while you regulate property issues, while you regulate everything you need from an orderly basis, from a building permit, from an urban permit, you pass the time, and you have trouble getting all these papers. Instead of simplifying and shortening the procedure, we are not talking about the diversity between cadastrian operations, between land books, between succession, the succession order, the first, the second, the third, the unsustainability of the situation in the land books, which makes additional complications in the procedure, because for each permit the first and the basic property on the plot is on which it is built. Instead of shortening that procedure, it's done where those who paid for it are punished. The second thing, in the Electricity Act, is that anyone who submits an application for the connection of an object, and the facility can be attached, there is a temporary permit, it is required that such permission be given. When we worked in local self-governments, we tried to disable the granting of these permits, I mean the electricity industry, the accession, the facilities, but we came into conflict with the law. You've passed one law here, and you haven't changed what it says in the second law. You will have a conflict of two laws that have brought two congregations, one Federal, and one Republic. The other thing, I apologize, ma'am, is we'd have fewer problems if we were really an important question, if you'd let the debate take place in 10 minutes. They wouldn't waste time on warnings, they wouldn't waste time on the Rules of Procedure, but what's done is done. I ask the lady to warn the gentlemen not to win, I will finish... I'll finish at the rally on Friday, 6:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11342	I ask the People's Messengers not to receive from the MPs' benches. The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula. National MP Slobodan Janjic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11343	Madam Chairman, as the end of the debate on this bill approaches, please establish a quorum so that we do not come into a situation to declare something without a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11344	At the request of MP Slobodan Janjic, I ask the MPs to establish the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and I ask MP George Mamulu to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11345	What are the odds, so is the Predicate of this law. I think it should be supported because no fundamental objection has been made. This is an old problem, about 30 years old. I watched them tear down people's houses, and they put up banners and pictures of political saints so the house wouldn't be torn down. That's how we got to 900,000 wild building objects. The construction was wild, the dams were pietoms, the cash register was filling up, buying social peace. There are these settlements everywhere in Serbia, they are here in the capital, and here, in one period, these settlements played a key role. I mean, those ground up next to the Sava Center, when some coming here from unclassified countries could feel like home, feel the right domestic atmosphere next to those favelas and straws. Here were the remarks that the sentences were harsh, so let's remember how many penalties were under the Public Information Act. Where your grace was then, now you remember a little man, you take care of him, and that's nice, after 10 years. Don't just make him cry. Of course, I can't say that there weren't any attempts to improve construction through some regulations, so came the idea of Chinatown, Europol. Of course, the idea went unfavorably, as did the promoters. That was at the time when the idea of confederation with Greece appeared, and later the alliance with Russia and Belarus. As for the wild construction of the urban mafia, why didn't you file charges for the past 10 years? Who was controlled by the Ministry of Justice, the Republic Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Court, who was sitting in the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism? You could have filed charges, the 1976 Code of Criminal Procedure allowed deception, unauthorized evidence, allowed tricks, and the tricks included this new Constitution, frogish, and why didn't you file charges? The law puts the defendant in a position to argue with the court about the letter of condemnation. I think it's hypocritical to remember that in some of the places where you come from, there were crime, wild construction, abuse of position, and what were you silent about? In whose interest did you keep your mouth shut?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11346	The word has the People's MP Đuro Popovic, followed by MP Miroslav Martic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was counting on the DSS MP group to be uninformed, they don't know anything about anything, especially what they're involved in, but I'd like to say...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11348	I ask you to tell a member of the Rules of Procedure, and I ask the MPs not to earn it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11349	There's no need for these mice to yell from above, I don't understand why they're doing it because they're not afraid of people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11350	I ask the People's MP, Alexander Vukic, not to speak to the MPs in the MPs' benches.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11351	It took these people from that party of uninformed, who don't even watch TV, so they can't find out what's going on in the country, what everyone knows, you should have informed him that there's a Article 98, which says the speaker can only talk about a question that's on the agenda. That's the attitude of the first member, and the previous speaker talked about everything, just not about what's on the agenda. I know you like it, but it only shows what two arches are like...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11352	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11353	Well, let them win, and they only show how much pain they're in and what's been said to them from this pay phone. (President: I ask the People's MPs not to speak or earn. The MP Alexander Vukic is not finished. Here you go. I will add this time to you, but I ask you also to remind MPs of the respect of the Rules of Procedure when you return to your post. You have a minute longer. I'd ask you to, when you run the session, you only have the same archaic. Nothing more. Not to let me or to warn me, but to warn them and vice versa. I'm just asking you to be equal, that we don't have any less rights. A voice from the O.R., like a communist. No, I've never been a communist, unlike yours and, unlike this "uninformed," I've never written a book called Self-Government in Social Action. But there's something else I want to say. I think it is also very important for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to try to influence the MPs to listen to the others. They can get it, but the one who's behind the pay phone can normally take it and keep talking, not that 100 people yell at the same time, throws it away, says no one alive can concentrate and listen. We've heard a lot of things before, but we've been keeping quiet and waiting for us to go out for a pay phone, so let's say what we think about it. And you're not even able to listen to three sentences that someone's been able to tell you, because you haven't learned to fit you. You've only learned to carry out a hickey, just like what we talked about today, to run that hickey, that no one is answering you, that no one has the right to stand up to you. That's why it's hard for you when someone has at least a little bit of courage to come out and tell you -- no, gentlemen "uninformed," just like you want to say in Serbia. Don't talk about what happened 11 years ago. You of the DSS have been in power for almost 10 months. We were two years before the war, during the war and after the war. You'll almost be more than we are. Don't just talk about it. Talk about what you had to be informed about, and you are not poor, which is of much greater importance to both the citizens and the people and the country in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11354	National MP Aleksandar Vukic warned that the previous speaker did not speak on the subject, with a comment that I did not give a warning measure to him as others. I haven't given anyone a warning yet. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: I didn't say that.) ) If you want to look at the stenograms and the moment I intervene as chairman, you can see that the MPs in their idea of representing the subject are equally treated. If you want to lose those minutes and a half, two until the MP makes a point of what he wants, and when it comes to the Law on the Construction of Objects, then you leave me no other than that, because a certain number of MPs make very clear use of the Assembly's pay phone for something that has absolutely nothing to do with the subject, in the automatic application of the Rules of Procedure we do something that neither we nor you, no one in this room wants. Of course, it is your right to reduce the point of the speaker. That's not controversial. A member of the People's Parliament, Tomislav Nikolic, reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11355	I'd like to report for the replica, but you don't respect all MPs equally. You'd tell me if I didn't have the right to a replica, even though the speaker made it clear that he was thinking of all those in power so far. On that basis, I would have, but still, the speaker used offensive expressions that refer to other people by putting some good laws in the wrong and getting applause, interestingly, from his political rivals from the Democratic Party. (President: Please do not express your views on the life of other persons. You have no way of knowing who the opposition to the Democratic Party is. You can ask me and I'll tell you. Ma'am, I'm one of the most measured here who can make views of both life and death. So listen to me for a second. The information law was the best law. If it were now in force, you wouldn't be strangling your children with movies that are directed against the heart yesterday, but someone who had thought to announce it would have a higher penalty. I don't think you'd be a part of it, but you just like getting some applause. You're talking about the Alliance of Russia and Belarus and the Feast of the Federal Assembly's decision, unanimously made, to the SRJ to join the Union of Russia and Belarus. For you, the sanctity is only what most of you bring. For you, the sanctity is just the voters who voted for you. For you, the holy one is just the president your constituents choose. If they choose someone else or if they've chosen someone else before, those voters have no value to you. Their decisions in the National Assembly, through as many legitimate representatives as you are today, have no meaning at all. (President: I ask the MPs, for who knows which time, to turn off their cell phones. You don't have to pray. I know that son of a bitch that includes it. (President: I ask MP Tomislav Nikolic to remain on the line. Let the one I insulted come forward. There's no cell phone range in the National Assembly. These are little children's toys. (President: I ask the People's MP not to speak falsely of the pay phone, for I spoke from the National Assembly. ) Maybe you have some quality DOS machine. Mine says there's no net. Just one more thing -- implementing the Serbian Radical Party's policy in the federal government, I stopped the draft anti-terrorism bill. I knew that JUL and SPS would come after us first. But it seems to me that we should have endured what they would have done to us and passed that law. At least we'd have less to do with traitors in this country now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11356	I think at this point it'll be easier to raise the hands of those who won't according to the Rules of Procedure. But just to determine the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11357	Madam Chairman, I see, and I know that it is not easy for you to hold a session when this is how you say everything you say about this speaker, but I think you should have warned Mr. Vukic, the MP, because he called several MPs in the top line from the DSS, maybe me, too. Here, look what Janjic throws now. But I would recommend that Mr. Janjic and Mr. Vukic watch TV sometimes and watch a cartoon "Tom and Jerry", so they can see how Jerry often knows how to fix dangerous cats. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11358	I ask the Members of Parliament to sit down in their MPs' benches. It's 12.08 hours now. We have until the break and after a break enough time and we all respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly together. The MP said that the Rules of Procedure had been violated by the chairman, and for the reason that there was no warning of offensive expressions. A member who regulates the statement of the warning in his 3rd or 4th position, as you say, says the reminder is given to a MP who, in addition to the warning of the president of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda. I give the warnings, and as part of the warning, it was in the presentation of MP Alexander Vukic. Does the MP want to make a statement about the violation of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Next to break the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MP who reports for breach of the Rules of Procedure has the advantage and receives the word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker. I ask the MP not to address the chairman from the parliamentary benches. That's a warning, because next time it'll be a reason to warn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11359	Dear Members of Parliament, the President-in-Office, has been violated by a member of 96 who has already been mentioned here many times. So, if the MP in his presentation at the session is insulting to the MPs and so on. Indeed, it is hypocritical and sometimes painful and now it has been painful for someone to call on this member of our Rules of Procedure, and in doing so knowingly, deliberately, and for political purposes, it is just a violation of that member. I can tell my colleagues from the U.S.S. that they're leaving the DSS and that we know a lot, which you'll never know. What you never knew and what you won't even know is that you're responsible for this country and this people. Do not use the Rules of Procedure to give political speeches. I'm going to save a lot of you the effort to tell them that this political speech and these political speeches can be done tomorrow, so Friday, at 18 o'clock in the Republic Square. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11360	The MP warned of the first position of the same member as the previous MP. I will remind you that both the first and second positions of the 96th members refer to offensive expressions about the MP and the parliamentary group. I would remind you that in the position of Article 3, Article 96, the decision on cases referred to in Articles 1 and 2 shall be made by the President, or by the chairman of the National Assembly. So I ask the MP if he wants to make a statement, that the National Assembly is voting? No, I don't. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Lazar Marjanski called. The MP who seeks the word by the Rules of Procedure has the advantage and receives the word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11361	I shall announce the breach of the Rules of Procedure of Article 28(3). In fact, Madam Chairman, this is the Rules of Procedure that we adopted. Whether it suits you or not, it's valid. You have no power, no power, no desire, no knowledge to apply the Rules of Procedure. For all this mess that is being created in this congregation, it is directly your fault, if you are unable to bring order into this congregation. When a member of the SRS discusses, you hear well that they're getting, that he's a fascist, that this is, that that's what you're not responding to. The greatest culprit in this congregation, it's you. If you are able to maintain this congregation, guide it, and if you are not, give it to who will lead. Turn off the culprit. The Rules of Procedure are being broken, you know it, and you won't use it. You're just using it when it comes to the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11362	National MP Lazar Marjanski quoted the violation of Article 28, where she was chaired by a committee on the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We can look at the stenogram, if the word fascists are referred to anyone, I respond to such statements. Aging on the application of the Rules of Procedure, again, implies consistent or automatic application of the Rules of Procedure, and taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure implies and an attempt to respect it all together. Since Members of Parliament who I know very well that are violating the Rules of Procedure and they do not belong to just one parliamentary group, then it is a joint job. I do not believe that I have violated or have not applied the Rules of Procedure to the extent that it is equally applicable to members and MPs of all parliamentary groups. In a loud conversation, with each other's e-mails and with each other, all MPs express disrespect for this hall, according to the home they were chosen for and the work for which they were responsible. We can all share whatever reminders you want, until it happens to all of us together, so far there will be no use, but only abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do you want to vote for a violation of Article 28(3)? Yeah. ) I ask the MPs, with respect that we have been here all spring and a good part of summer, to remember the responsibility we have in front of the public of Serbia, and that, in accordance with the responsibilities we bear, we behave as we can, if we can. National MP Lazar Marjanski requested a vote by the National Assembly on the violation of Article 28(3) by the chairman. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please plead. For 26, against 99, abstentions 7, 17 of the 149 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has made no decision that it is a violation of Article 28. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Is anyone else looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. ) The People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic asked the Replica, so the People's Messenger Dejan Mihajlov, the People's Messenger Aleksandar Vukic and the People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic, if they are in the hall. MP Cedomir Jovanovic is in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11363	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I reported on the replica because of a comment on relations within DOS and a distance that appeared in a policy represented by the Democratic Party or the Democratic Party of Serbia, a distance that is obvious, which has its arguments on one side and on the other, the distance, which produced and formed one parliamentary club, are announced by two or three, from the formerly unique DOS parliamentary club. A distance that has its negative consequences, which I am confident is but a distance that should not be enjoyed by those who are politically defeated in the September and December elections. We can differ in thinking about our future, but we are more than unique about our past, as well as in determining responsibility for all those who have made Serbia the most tragic society since the beginning of the 21st century in Europe. There is no reason for triumph and ironing, and especially when it is done by persons who, in the opinion of one and the other, were not only witnesses to the collapse of our society, the tragedy we went through, but, most specifically, the actors of everything, and among other things, what bothers them even when it is on the film tape. Serbia's assembly should not be involved in editing television or any media space. Serbian citizens have a choice. We, as a new authority, are obliged to show them what we are trying to solve today and the consequences of the authorities we are facing. In 1995, those who gave Serbian citizens Srebrenica a list of 7,500 missing citizens, 7,500 people who, in addition to being different by name and last name from us, have much to do with us. The right to free life and the right to human relations with them. Serbia does not deserve it, nor is it done on behalf of the Serb people. It was done on behalf of those we split up with in September and December, on behalf of those for whom we seek responsibility for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11364	National MP Dejan Mihajlov has a right to replication. I said that the People's MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Aleksandar Vukic and Slobodan Janjic received the word by line. After that, you'll get a word in the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, People's Messenger Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11365	Gentlemen, our political allies are, we know which, and we also know which will never be. We can differ in some things and some attitudes, but we will never differ in the view that you are the past and that you are the damage Serbia has survived in the last 15 years, and 50 years. At this point, we have supported the proposal to form a survey committee, which would determine what needs to be determined. Our motives were different from the motives of those who suggested this. We demanded that this be determined, that fact, in order to remove collective responsibility from the Serb people. Our motives may not have been like the motives of some others, who suggested it, to make it a political farce and to have a political career here in human lives. And that's the basic difference between you and us. We have seen state policy management as a responsibility for how the state has lived and worked for the past 10 years and what the fate of the citizens of the SRJ and the citizens of all other neighbouring countries have been like in the past years. And it's your responsibility, and what happened is your shame. And you're the last one to talk about it when it comes to these victims. We want to establish the fact -- how many people have been killed in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, in order to determine the individual responsibility of anyone who participated in these matters and who has conducted politics, in order to remove responsibility from the citizens of Serbia and Serbs living in these areas and so that they do not suffer the consequences of an irresponsible government and the policy of irresponsible government. That's why we supported it, not to support you, but to clear the name of Serbia and Serbian citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11366	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic. - Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11367	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must note that in this country several of them, political parties, are constantly speaking -- will or will not be in a coalition with the SRS, in some form of co-operation. God forbid we will, God never give us a coalition with you, we don't think of anything like that. Tell me who asked us to do it. Don't lie to the people. Listen, you're not coming with us. God forbid we go with you, who deliver Serbs to The Hague tribunal, that we go with you, who destroy the Serbian people. We're with you to go to the coalition, so now you're doing us a favor, or you're not doing us a favor, you will or you won't be in the coalition with us. Well, none of the Serbian radicals will go into coalition with you and don't talk about it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11368	I ask the People's Messengers not to receive, I pray that we hear each other in peace.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11369	As for him who uses other people's lives in a miserable way, do not speak to those who know nothing about it, who have never been anywhere, who have never experienced any of it. Let me tell Mr. Jovanovic (I mentioned the name, because we were working political gentlemen and we're not afraid of replicas or answers) - I didn't kill anyone and I didn't participate in anyone's murder, no Muslims, no Croats, but that's why all the houses of my father and all the others burned down by you talking about being innocent victims, and only Serbs are criminals. So much so you know, and as far as the truth is concerned. It's about the village of Čipuljic, not a lie, shame on you, Mrs Arnerić, shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11370	I ask the People's Messenger not to address the MPs in the benches.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11371	Shame on you, you poor bastards, so you will speak to the people who defended their country, you will speak of the Serbs who participated in it, you will say...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11372	I remind the People's MP of the obligation of polite address, of the obligation of mutual courtesy, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11373	Just shout, what you're doing today around Srebrenica is not editing TV programs and not asking anyone to do it, but asking to stop hysterical media propaganda against the Serb people. We didn't ask you to do that when it came to the SRS. Every day you attack us, slander us, falsify the truth. We're not even telling you anything from this congregation, except we're speaking by the law and we're telling you what we think of you. But you will impose blame on the entire Serbian people for what he is not guilty of, or you have no proof. How do you know that 7,500 civilians were killed, who told you that, who investigated it, who proved it in court, and you already told our people, with the aim of saying that as many as 11,000 civilian victims were killed? That's what you want. You want to impose that kind of guilt on the entire Serbian people, especially the Serb people west of Drina. That's what Serbian shame is, that's what Serbian is. And please never mention any cooperation again - whether it will be or whether it was between the SRS and you. God save me from such allies and such co-operation with such political parties. Never such co-operation, I hope at least, will be, because it would be sacrilege, it would be the worst for the SRS and for the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11374	There is a word from the Messenger of the People, Slobodan Janjic. - Replica. ) National MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Dejan Mihajlov, Aleksandar Vukic and Slobodan Janjic (excuse MEPs, just to explain), all have a reply to the presentation of the previous speaker. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11375	The DOS ambassador himself mentioned me and said that someone said he was a mouse and I said he was a rat. I'm not at all entitled to establish it, it's an Iron Rat Merodaván, he has a rat-hunting firm, so let's make a diagnosis - whether he's a mouse or a rat. I'd rather it was a rat, because now there's a mouse fever.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11376	The circle of replicas that have been challenged and held accountable to MP Cedomir Jovanovic. (Employer Tomislav Nikolic asks for a word. I ask the People's Messengers to sit down, you will all get the word, as you have so far. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11377	Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, finally, Mr. Vukic, I didn't mention you, because I wasn't in the O.R. when you were eventually speaking. I've been informed that a survey committee is required, but I have no right to mention your name since I wasn't in the O.R. So just because I didn't mention you doesn't mean I tried to avoid talking to you specifically. The question of war crimes is the question that we must offer an answer to, but not as a nation, although we can approach it in such a way, approach as humans. The war produces war crimes, a war where only one party exists, at least it never existed before. But the right to speak of our victims stems from the willingness to point out, not to our people, but to individuals, who allegedly committed war crimes on our behalf. I wasn't talking about seven and a half thousand dead Muslims, I was talking about a list of seven and a half thousand names. Chuck, I didn't say it was Muslims. I think that would be an injustice. These are people with the same right as us, to live free and to be questioned by their lives. Where are they today, I don't know. There's a noise in the O.R. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11378	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11379	Yesterday I had a chance to see part of the truth. What bothers me is that I didn't get a chance to see what happened to Serbian villages in Podrinj. But we can also talk about it. Not by denying what was done on our behalf, because none of us asked for it, nor would we agree to anything like that. We condemn such a thing most decisively and draw out the right to seek out those who have committed war crimes against ourselves. Never in Belgrade, until June of this year, have mass graves with women, children, civilians, soldiers, buried and burned. Well, we inherited this society with a monument in Kosutnjak, which the ones who attacked our country raised the chivalrous of the Serb people. What are we going to leave for generations to come? Agonia, tragedy? It'll be our common tragedy if we don't tell who's responsible. I'm not going to say for a moment that you're responsible, I'm going to say that you're responsible for the Information Act because you defended him, but I've never heard of you defending a war crime. If you do that someday, then I will point to your personal responsibility. We never said that the Serbian Radical Party is responsible for war crimes, but the moment we have the name and last name of every radical responsible for such a thing, that's what we'll say. For, (President: three minutes and 30 seconds). ) avoiding this, there would be an identification of 300,000 votes that you received in the last election with one such idea, and I am sure that in Serbia there are not 300,000 people, but there are three people who would support the policy of killing innocents, who would support the policy of creating mass graves in Belgrade suburbs, burning corpses, crematorium. Well, Europe broke up with that 50 years ago. This isn't a Nazi society. It's unacceptable for us, and we judge it very clearly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11380	National MP Cedomir Jovanovic had a replica of Alexander Vukic's presentation No, I don't. [[Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Give me a replica, do you give me a replica?]] There is no basis for replicating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. There are four, five MPs reported. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Rajko Baralic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11381	Mrs. Komic, the MPs of the people, were violated by the provisions of the article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Mrs. Komic, between Mrs. Natasa Micic's behaviour, who acts like Rišelje and your efforts to act like Gandhi, there is a Mr. Marsicani missing here. You have to be more clear about what you're doing. You either have a level of tolerance that the Assembly can function normally, or a warning that, as you can see, you're not achieving the goal, which is in front of you, you're creating an atmosphere where we work all morning. I've had an intervention in my Rules of Procedure once with Article 96. The MPs of the SRS had one interpersonal with the People's MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, let me say, a little marble and a bit of bone, and then you gave Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, on this basis, the right to reply, that on behalf of the parliamentary group, which was not mentioned here and was not the subject of the debate, he gets the word. The issue of Mr Cedomir Jovanovic's appearance must be discussed correctly. At this point, there is really no relevant list of all the members of the rest, or whatever you want to say, I apologize to the coalition's stoning of names, or the MP's club. Of all the members of that MP club, we need to know who makes up that club. It is a public secret that a number of MPs do not want to sign a list that is circulating this hall and that should be a new list of members of the DOS parliamentary club, without one, another or third parties that have been in the DOS so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11382	MP Rajko Baralic, please let me know if this is what you're doing now in violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11383	This isn't. This is an explanation of why there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11384	You mentioned a member of 96th and a member of 95th. The content of your presentation refers to Article 24. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Either mention it, or agree that you went out with all the other MPs to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm warning you of the content of the exhibit.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11385	Don't warn me. You have broken the provisions of Article 95 three times, for you have not given word to the People's Messengers according to the Rules of Procedure, but have given words to the messengers of the people according to the right to reply. So that thing is obvious. (President: Three minutes and 10 seconds. This self Mr. Jovanovic spoke of here... (President: I agree that you are violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Three minutes and 23 seconds. )......................................................................................................... You, of course, can do whatever you want. (President: I can only do what I am bound by the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... But you don't. You're doing the opposite.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11386	Three minutes, 33 seconds. You're out of time. Thank you. (The microphone's off. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11387	I'll speak loud enough to be heard without a microphone. Come on, give me a warning. He's still standing behind the pay phone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11388	I thank the People's Parliament. I thank you for your intervention in breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let me give you an explanation. National MP Rajko Baralic did not follow the work of the National Assembly session. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic reported on the replica first, following a conclusion and stance on the definition of conflict or unity between the Democratic Party and the Democratic Opposition of Serbia. That, you're right, in a beautiful language, is resolved in a marble. My decision to apply the Rules of Procedure so that all MPs who have received the word for this speaker finish their round of replicas, will contribute to the normal course of the session, not to the violations of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare a breach of the Rules of Procedure. 95th and 96th position 1? No, I don't. ) Here you are, regarding the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11389	Thank you. I had to write about how much damage the Rules of Procedure suffered. Well, I'm going in line: Article 95(1), Article 96(5), Article 99(3) and Article 100(1). What doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure is that your explanation that you are obliged to do after an MP's complaint usually lasts longer than three minutes, so there's no need to talk about it. Be a little shorter when you explain, when you give an answer to the MP. I reported, first of all, for using offensive terms here, Article 99(3) by several MPs, primarily by Mr Jovanovic. As a Serb, first of all, I'm interested in 2,300 people from Kosovo, what about Račka, with Markals? When asked here to form a polling committee, I ask that all committees, which are related to certain areas, be made clear and that the Health Committee of this assembly should be made clear as to why the mental health of the Serbian population is being disrupted, by broadcasting such emissions. Then, the Committee on Culture and Information, why and who allowed that Church, Kamenjak, I don't know what it's called, to broadcast such a show.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11390	I ask the MP to declare what provision of the Rules of Procedure has been violated by what you now pronounce as content and quote of the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11391	I'm due in my three minutes to explain where the Rules of Procedure has been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11392	And I am required in your three minutes that you stick to the subject of breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11393	I asked you to be shorter. There's no need to give us moral-political lectures. In my three minutes, I have the right to say what this is about. Article 99(3)......
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11394	As for moral-political lectures, please do not communicate with me. It's my business obligation and it's my right to interrupt a speaker when he's not sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11395	You talk like a woman in the first year of marriage. Usually women talk a lot then. Article 99(3) says that it is not allowed to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. I'm the second person, these are the facts that apply to my life, and in three minutes I have the right to say what I mean. Pass me the time you took from me, then after 15 minutes explain what you wanted to say. So, please let all committees know why Serbs in this Serbia, in this country...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11396	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11397	.... That's the way they show it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11398	I am acting, MP, on your request, for three minutes you have the right to say what you have. You have before you more registered MPs looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please do not approach the speaker until the chairman of the National Assembly lets you do so. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vojislav Seselj called.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11399	You've violated Article 96. Rules of Procedure because you did not allow me a replica of Cedomir Jovanovic's exposure, which spoke of the Serbian Radical Party in an extremely incorrect manner, and you allowed Cedomir Jovanovic to talk about Serbian crimes on the basis of a propaganda TV show by the NATO Pact. You should have warned Cedomir Jovanovic at the time that it was a propaganda show. I don't argue that there were crimes against Muslims in Srebrenica. It was, I don't know how many of those crimes, but there's no man in the world who would want more than me to investigate exactly who committed those crimes. You were released from prison and Dominic Petrusic and some other people who were founded suspected of organising it on the assignment of the French intelligence service. From the point of view of Serbian interests, it was a terrible crime, because if the Serbs had planned to allow all Muslims to go out to Tuzla, Gorazde would have also surrendered. Gorazde was not handed over to the Serbian forces after these crimes against Muslim soldiers. Secondly, I was at mass funerals of Serbs in Podrinj, Skelani, who were killed by Muslims from Srebrenica. One show that doesn't show both sides of the war is unorthodox, trendy. Who was in the interest of this happening in front of the executioner. Secondly, you allowed Cedomir Jovanovic here to speak in a negative context about the Serbian Radical Party in connection with alleged tombs with corpses around Belgrade. No evidence has been presented yet. Nothing but the story of Dusan Mihajlovic, whom we trust. Let me tell you some information you had to take care of. First, the first man to launch that story is called Oscar Clipe. He owns the Team Crimes magazine. The man changed his name and name to Dragan Vitomirovic. Why did he change his name and his last name and who he works for? He was expelled from the State Security Service for stealing gold in Kosovo and is now a member of New Democracy. Here we need to clearly explore why you then refuse to accept an initiative on the establishment of a polling committee, to see everything, all to investigate, who runs the campaign against the Serb people, and then whoever runs the campaign against the Serb people, let them prove that the crimes really existed, and not for months on state television, there is not one more evidence, there is not one body that has been proven to be buried in an illegal manner in the vicinity of Belgrade. Finally, you should give me the word every time another MP mentions the Serbian Radical Party in some context that is not objective in my opinion, which is not correct, disintegrates our publicly expressed political views. I insist you give me the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11400	National MP Vojislav Seselj is uninformed about the proposal for a polling committee. No one has refused to form a committee that has a theme and content, all the way the proposer thinks. So, there's been a lie about this pay phone. It wasn't rejected by the board of inquiry. Secondly, MP Vojislav Seselj considers the chairman to be a mistake because he does not interrupt the speaker when, in his opinion, he presents unbiased facts about the Serbian Radical Party. There's no way I'm reacting like that. I react to all stages of all MPs when they enter the area of violation of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic has never brought into contact with war crimes or mass graves or the Serbian Radical Party. If he had done so, he would have been interrupted, and he would have been warned that he was treating other MPs with respect. It really isn't. Do you want to make a statement about the violation of Article 96(1)? Before I put it to the vote, just to remind the MP of the violation of Article 96's first position, that there is a position 3 in that article in 96, that in the cases referred to in Articles 1 and 2, the President of the National Assembly, of insults, offensive expressions, decisions are made by the President of the National Assembly. So you're looking for a practical violation of the Rules of Procedure by my decisions as chairman. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Don't you give me the right to a replica? ) (No). I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that the motion that the chairman broke the Rules of Procedure voted 44, against 89, abstentions 6, was not voted by 22 of the 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made no decision to violate the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, the second time, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11401	Article 95 has been broken. Please don't take the time I'm going to talk to you. Item 1: "To a national MP who wishes to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker." You've been giving words here to the MPs based on the list of repatriators. First injury. Another quote: "The People's MP is the debtor, who is the provision of the Rules of Procedure, according to his opinion, injured, quoted, explained etc. "and he can speak for the most part for three minutes." You haven't allowed anyone to speak for three minutes and explain why he thinks he's been injured by the Rules of Procedure. Second injury, Section 3: "The president of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation afterwards." You just gave me no explanation. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 4 - if and after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains, etc. - you didn't ask the assembly to plead that attitude. So you were injured in the previous story and attitude 96, or Article 96, paragraph 5. A moment ago, Mr. Jovanovic spoke for four minutes, although it says that the replica could last exactly three minutes. You shut me out in the second minute and 59 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11402	You said you wanted your three minutes. We can take a look at the stenogram. You said-- let me have my three minutes. I respected your wish. All the other MPs have 30 seconds, 30 seconds left, 30 seconds to complete the thought. Your express request was to speak for three minutes. You have another 20 seconds, plus 15 seconds, plus 10 seconds, plus 10 seconds, from now on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11403	You're very kind. I think that if with so many words, as doctors say in allogory, which comes to you at certain times (nothing is offensive), defend the interests of the Serbian people, it would be much better for this country. I repeat, as a man, as a humanist and as a socialist, I cannot accept a crime, nor accept it. First of all, I want...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11404	A member of the Rules of Procedure who speaks of crimes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11405	I'm explaining why a breach of the Rules of Procedure was committed. The way I'm going to explain, how I saw and realized the MP who talked about it, gives me the right, and count this on me, gives me the right for an MP to come out after me and say whether he's misread or not. Isn't that right, Mrs. Comic? So if he doesn't understand me, he can come out again. Therefore, I would ask once more to repeat and finish, to see where 1,300 Serbs are from Kosovo and Metohija, what happened to the Serbs...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11406	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11407	... What happened to them to this day. When we figure that out, then we'll watch BBC, SKY and CNN show, see what happened to other people. So I repeat no normal man, the Socialists will be for crime, but the Serbian people are not criminal and whoever broadcasts this, who instills it in our children that we are guilty -- it's not good and the people will remember it by it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11408	I need to find an explanation measure. The MP insisted. I must find a measure between the express request of the MP and other requests from the same parliamentary group to violate the Rules of Procedure by giving explanations and that I need no further explanation. Either you need to agree within the MP's group or we need to take a stand on how the chairman respects the Rules of Procedure or that I am looking for a measure. I find that MP Stevan G. Guduric belongs to another current within the parliamentary group, which he believes does not need an explanation. But still, here's the measure. So, I'm not going to quote which provisions are being warned. I will remind you, when it comes to replicas, of the third position of Article 96 - a decision on the right to replication and a decision on whether or not it was offensive, the president of the National Assembly makes. I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure, and I think all those who asked for the word and who wanted to speak, except for MP Tomislav Nikolic, were in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Does the MP want to vote for a violation of all attitudes? No, I don't. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11409	I don't know if you left me as a treat, but I've been looking for a word for half an hour, first for a replica, and then also for the violation of Rule 95, Paragraph 1, because I had the right to a replica, and that was when the MP left the DSS who directly accused Serbian radicals of crimes. That's what the whole assembly heard. Mr. Jovanovic did it milder, so he said if they found out they were radicals, but Michael from the DSS said it out loud and clear -- you were to blame for what was going on, you were doing it. You dare not answer or warn Mr. Michael. What's this about? You don't need any political points. The whole of Serbia knows what kind of party it is. This morning, we couldn't stand this terror anymore on national television. This morning we suggested a reasonable move, even on that survey board we predicted that there were more of your MPs than ours, to finally make clear what the state television was doing. Let's see why we're hostages to foreign information emissions. Why do we have to watch Serbian movies on national television, with translation, why our television doesn't make movies about our people? It was our only motive. We're talking about Srebrenica. Let the MPs declare whether he was already cooled off by Djindjic eating at the Palace at the time, or just roasted. We all went to Republika Srpska then to encourage that people, to support them in a fair fight, and those who now say that all Serbs are criminals, only something has changed, so it's more profitable in front of the West to pretend innocent that you don't even know where Drina is. We all know where Drina is, we know where Serbia is. Serbia is to the last Serbian monastery in the west. Serbia is up to Jasenovac and never forget it. If you forget that, you'll forget this border today in a few months. Here, they're already threatening to kidnap the Duke, and you're acting crazy and silly. That's just the problem. Please, Mrs. Komic, I don't use the right to replica very often, I don't use the right to harm the Rules of Procedure, but when I ask for that right, I ask you to value me just as much as the other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11410	Only to vote again on the violation, if the MP wishes? No, I don't. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, for... Is it a replica? The People's Messenger is looking for a replica or is it based on the Rules of Procedure, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11411	I'm mentioned by Mr. Seselj, Mr. Nikolic, and probably all those who will mention me. The assembly is not the place where we want to charge you, nor do we want to judge you. The nerves and the screams with which you react to something that has no national interest or can have it, but strictly individual, blames you much more than anything we've said. Today, the theme of this House is the Law on Building Land. If we can go back to changing and supplementing that law, and some other time we can talk about the yellow eights, everything that can have to do with some individuals who represent the opposition here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11412	National MP Milorad Mircic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11413	I know, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, that newly formed parliamentary groups, which came from the DOS framework, love that famous social game, "There goes the cat around you... "that you, the chairman, like to comment on the Rules of Procedure in style - who is the last of the squat, but for all the social games you are playing, you must...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11414	Please, a member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11415	You must have the required number of MPs present in this room. According to Article 80, I ask that the quorum be determined, because it can be visually determined that it does not correspond to the number of those present to what is on the screen.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11416	The MP, Milorad Mircic, is asking for a quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards and comply with Article 113 and Article 114. As chairman, I must conclude that the MPs of the third, fourth and fourth order, other than the MP sitting in the final chair, and now ion, are breaking Article 113 and Article 114. In the case of quorum, I will ask for the third position of Article 100 to be applied. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says: "The National Assembly, on a proposal from the President of the National Assembly, may, without a search, impose a measure of distance from the session", because of the breach of the Rules of Procedure on the respect of registration by electronic card on the electronic voting system. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Come on, put it to the vote.) I said when and if we had a quorum. I find that the National Assembly at 13.04 p.m. has no quorum to work with and I give a 25-minute break. The work continues at 13:30. Resume session at 13.40 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please continue the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia after the break. For further work, please determine if there is a quorum. I find that the National Assembly has no working conditions and that two MPs, MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Vojislav Seselj, are violating Article 113 because they are present in the hall and are not registered. We'll continue the afternoon session at 15.30 minutes. The MP who starts discussing the principle in the afternoon is Martic Miroslav.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that in Serbia over the past ten, fifteen years as well as in everything else and in the area of urbanism, there was a great chaos. One of the biggest problems in this previous period, and I was in the local administration within the Coalition "Together", and now within the DOS, it was just illegal construction. Almost five years from a series of problems we've had as a local administration, and with regard to illegal construction, we haven't been able to solve it in a favourable way. No matter what we did, we brought down a series of construction suspensions, no matter what a series of penalties were imposed and no matter how many people were brought in for talks at the MUP. We have failed more significantly to stop this level of illegal construction, which has reached intolerable conditions, at least when it comes to Uzice, and I suppose it's a similar situation in other cities. For these reasons, I think that this proposal for a law on construction is somehow trying to solve an urban building chaos that has so far existed in a large number of Serbian cities. You know that this existing law, which you praise as a law that was quite good after all, in some ways made it impossible to stop these illegal constructions more significantly, and for the reasons that criminal provisions were not such that those who were illegally building forced to stop this illegal construction. Not only have they not stopped this illegal construction, but they have continued it, and in principle it has always happened by the construction inspector issuing a solution to the suspension of construction, if it does not bear fruit, then handing himself over to the judge, the judge sentences the sentence. However, this lawless construction has largely continued, and as a rule, it has already been established on weekends, Saturdays and Sundays, regardless of the exit of our inspections. From the construction inspection through the work protection inspection, through the labour inspector. This illegal construction took such a wave, that practically without any visible legal provisions and criminal provisions, it could not be stopped. I think one way to stop this illegal construction, although a large number of objections have been made by opposition representatives, is by this rigid system of criminal measures, primarily by money, which so far, we have to admit, have been insignificant. And then, if not, it is quite clear by this law that criminal charges and practical liability are followed in terms of the closure of these people who are illegally building, and regardless of their lack of urban or construction permits. I think it's one of the good measures of this law, which is practically a condition for some object to be connected to the plumbing, sewerage, energy grid or the PTT network, that it has a building and urban license, that it has all the documentation it needs. The observation that such a law will make it impossible for those who have a low standard of living who are thus trying to solve their life problem, building housing and solving their living issue, does not stand at this point. A part of Serbia's citizens who are the hardest to live, so they're hardly making anything, and there's no conditions to make anything. At this very moment, the most illegal facilities are currently being made by some newly-companed businessmen and some people who have made it easy to get the money. In doing so, not only do they deviate from urban and construction conditions, but they also make them like it the way they like it. Almost none of them, even those who have received urban and construction permits, adhere to these urban and construction permits, but step down from it... (President: five minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... exactly the measure of things that suit them. If there was a building chaos in this area, an example is that by some estimate, there are 900 thousand illegal objects. The biggest building chaos has ruled among other things and in Zlatibor, I'm sorry that time is running out, and I wanted to tell you on a specific occasion what kind of building chaos the government is in in Zlatibor and how it... (President: six minutes. )......................................................................................................... It was happening. The municipality's management of Chatine was replaced two years ago by the municipal leadership of the SPS and director of the Directorate, precisely because of this urban chaos on Zlatibor. Let me not tell you about one of your former MPs, a member of the SPS, and in the last period of JUL, Mr. Cutovic, who did what he wanted and how he wanted to do on Zlatibor. (President: six minutes and 30 seconds. ) All of this was under the watchful control of legendary Minister Banet Ivkovic, although you say he is doing a great job. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11420	National MP Bozidar Vucurovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11421	I'm advocating the Rules of Procedure in Rule 88. - It's time to present the MP. At first, a representative of the ruling majority came out and demanded that the discussion's time be reduced to five minutes. We who voted against it, even if we overstepped for a minute, to see through their fingers. But those who voted in five minutes and speak for seven minutes, then it's really not right. Let me remind you that you've ruled out a tone for speakers from other parties when they exceed 30 seconds, and now you've mildly warned the gentleman who spoke exactly seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11422	Does the MP want to vote in breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I ask the MPs to declare themselves by voting. In violation 57, against 70, abstentioned 10, did not vote 32, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not decided on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, or has decided that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. There is a word from the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of Rule 99 has been violated, the first position, which says that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The dignity of the National Assembly is not only respected in the hall, in which the session takes place, which is this way and with this agenda, and in such an atmosphere, but also in the hallway, on the stairs, and especially when members of the 7th Force MPs of the National Assembly give statements on any issue, commenting on anything. Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the defiled parliamentary group, so-called The democratic opposition to Serbia, in the worst possible way, an hour and a half ago, in the hall of the National Assembly, where he gave a statement to several journalists, came across the MPs verbally, but also physically possible to expect, but verbally, in the most harshest way possible, to the journalist of the "Greater Serbia" and "Radical Waves", Vladimir Djukanovic. For what reason - Cedomir Jovanovic answered the questions of journalists, and Vladimir Djukanovic's question, who said, "Did you, Mr Jovanovic, know the fact that, allegedly killed and missing Muslims from Srebrenica, actively participated in operations on Mount Ozren and that all these Muslims were on the ballots in former Bosnia and Herzegovina? Did the show about alleged crimes in Srebrenica have to be shown on state television, the day before the parade of the dead Serbs in Kravica, where 3,500 Serbs were killed? "
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11424	National MP Natasa Jovanovic does not respect the dignity of the National Assembly at the moment, citing statements by journalists from the assembly halls. Please, MP, stick to the content when you report after breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11425	You know what Cedomir Jovanovic answered? Please don't interrupt me. I've got another minute. He said, "I know, it wasn't the day of the parastos, it was the day of the anniversary. "Cedomir Jovanovic forgets Serbian victims and attributes alleged war crimes to Serbs and Serbian heroes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11426	I ask the MP not to highlight the views on the private life of other persons, he cannot know what he feels and what Cedomir Jovanovic knows.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11427	Please ask the Assembly to vote that the injured member is the 99th position of Cedomir Jovanovic, who in this way and in any other way is counting on his political inexperiences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11428	National MP Natasa Jovanovic warned of respect for the dignity of the National Assembly. I can only repeat that if we want others to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, then we must do so ourselves. National MP Natasa Jovanovic was one of the MPs, who had to be warned about time overruns, which is an obligation under the Rules of Procedure, to address, during today's session, not only now, to address other MPs and to a number of violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were made during the appearance and a statement for the speaker of the MP. The People's MP in the Hall is obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure, not according to your interpretation, but according to my own interpretation, and I can only ask - do you want the National Assembly to plead on the violation of the Rules of Procedure? National MP Cedomir Jovanovic came forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11429	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order for someone to be an MP, it is not enough to raise parliamentary legitimacy, but it is necessary to defend among other things and the dignity of which the lady spoke, or Ms. Jovanovic. In your performance, in which you allegedly recognized my verbal violence, and assumed some future physical, you did not state any facts, while you were not even an eyewitness to that conversation, unlike many other journalists. Since you were not present, you can only assume something, and you can speak on the basis of, among other things, everything you have said before the MPs of this House and expect us to believe your word. Personally, I don't trust any SRS MPs with a single word, not a single letter. When you take to defense journalism and the profession of journalists, think about everything that you, as a government, have done to these people. It is true that the man who presented himself as a journalist of "The Great Serbia", answered that I was ashamed to bid with names, or with the nationalities of the victims, and that I do not care who lies in Bosnian gourds today, that I am interested in who left them there. Ivo Andric said in the parable of Vezir's elephant that Bosnia is a strange country, that in it the nations can hardly live above the earth, but that they meet underground. The power you have committed, and for a time very clearly supported, has confirmed this tragic sentiment. Let that unity never happen again. But I don't care what day it marks in the Kravicas, which day in Srebrenica, I want to know who's responsible for these war crimes, and I've never denied one, and I've never supported the other. Stop doing more than this people to make what they've never been. [[Applause]] This people respected their opponents, at least respected them, until the opposition today began to represent him and lead him. It's such a shame to talk about something that's so unfortunate and tragic. That's irresponsible. So those who work in "The Great Serbia", what they did for this "Great Serbia", took away their right, a right that follows every decent journalist (journalists tend to the truth, not paraphrases of truth).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11430	There is a word from the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11431	Mrs. Komic, you have violated Article 1st and Article 28th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First of all, you can't interrupt me in my statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure, which I am entitled to within three minutes, in the second minute, more specifically, for one minute and 52 seconds. You've demonstrated your rudeness, even though you're trying to drive it through some kind of pussula about good behavior, in a way that's so transparent and so hypocritical, that the whole public is familiar with it. Therefore, since the lights of cheeks, proudly, especially because of the party I belong to and the voters I represent here, I am going out for the assembly speaker, I will tell you that not only is the way your reasoning is not decent, but it is hypocritical and extremely contrary to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I would not go back to what the predecessor said, because the journalists present, and especially the journalist who was thus abused by the predecessors, had the opportunity to hear the answer. You'll probably be proud to publish it on all the information shows of all the TVs that are under your control. But let it serve the predecessor honor. On this day, on Petrovdan and on the parastom of Serbian victims in Kravica, it is not an honor. As for the way I represent the voters who sent me here and what it takes to be a national MP, that's what the voters who sent me to the National Assembly in front of the SRS parliamentary list are talking about. (President: Let National MP Natasa Jovanovic return to the content of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. And as far as you're concerned... The content of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure is by the chairman in Article 1 and Article 28, where you do not allow the argument to be spoken on what is the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You interrupt the speaker and give arguments that are unique to you. You know, Mrs. Comic, if we didn't listen to what you're saying, and you're bored with both God and the people these three days as far as you're at the pay phone, we could imagine, and you have the ideal predisposition that at the bus stop in Belgrade, on the train station, on the railway station, you'll announce when it comes to Mladenvac, Kragujevac, Nis or at the Surcin airport to announce which plane is headed for Tivat and Podgorica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11432	The difference between the publication of time at the bus station and airports is that the same facilities respect the time of departure, and the MPs do not respect the time given to them by the Assembly's decision on what is being exhibited at the National Assembly session. The dispute against the breach of the Rules of Procedure does not stand, because Article 98(2) says that no one can interrupt the speaker, nor warn him except the President of the National Assembly, in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. The moment the MP comes out of the topic, he violates the members of the Rules of Procedure: 99, 100, 101, 96 and 95, the chairman of the National Assembly applies the position of Article 2 98. For the end of this topic on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, not the MP Natasa Jovanovic, to be heard, it is as clear to me as all of us here, that the whole idea is that this session of the National Assembly is not held in order and not maintained in the agenda until the end. It is the legitimate right of all those who have such intentions. It is my duty that this session of the Assembly be completed in line with the agenda. There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11433	Unlike the individuals, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't come out here to deserve a round of applause. I'm not even going out to prove I'm worth anything. I've got enough evidence for people who know me, and for those who've heard of me, what I'm worth and what I'm not worth. But I can't let those who have never proven that they are worth anything, that using your services like this, Mrs. Comic, they're just dropping an entire avalanche of charges against the SRS, just like we haven't all lived in Serbia in ten years. Just like the whole Serbian public fell off the march and now Cedomir Jovanovic will say who were radicals for the past ten years. This morning we warned you of a harsh fact. If the entire NATO pact, if all their satellites are looking for victims in all nations, except for the Serb sacrifice, if they are looking for both dead and buried Muslims, Croats, Shipara, why is our country and our television doing so? Why don't you look for at least one kidnapped Serb? At least one Serb who doesn't know a clue, at least one dead Serb. Why don't you show a movie about a Serb? Why are we watching the movie on Srebrenica, Petrovdan today, today at the break of this session when the Serb Parastos is held in Kravica? If you marked Muslim sacrifices yesterday, with western pythetics, why don't you mark Serbian victims with Serbian pie today? Why don't you have the same archaic to your people as you do to others? You don't have to be nationalists, but you have universal criteria for all the people who live in this country. Where do you get the right to say that we were either as a government or as those who supported the government, involved in pushing under the country of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, fulfilling some of Andric's ideas? Well, we defended Serbia there. There's a noise in the O.R. (President: I ask the People's Messengers to listen to each other. I'm just asking you to keep your mouth shut. Whoever took part in it, then found me running away from the front before him, let him charge me. And those of you who were here howling and blubbering and savage and condemning Milosevic while defending Serbia, you keep your mouth shut about that defense. Anyone who's been there has the right to use me. I'm rooting those who are... (President: Three minutes and 10 seconds. )......................................................................................................... They were defending, so they gave up their defenses earlier. What about Ivan Stambolic? I ask the People's Messengers not to receive it. ) I would like to ask you, I will sign your request for the replacement of Interior Minister Dusan Mihailovic. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) Why hasn't Ivan Stambolic been found yet? But remember how much you talked about the death of a journalist in the time you were an opposition. A month-and-a-half-day tragedy killed a journalist while you were in power. (President: three minutes and 45 seconds. Is one life worth the same? Did you deal with this exact elan and the same grizzly in the process with those who can't detect the murderers of the newly killed journalist? Is Serbia again a dictatorial country now? (President: Four minutes and 40 seconds. I know the train leaves at four and four, and here I am going to get off the phone. [[Applause to SRS MPs]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11434	Thank you. It's only one minute longer than it takes, and I don't see any reason to applaud the MPs who warned of breaking the Rules of Procedure on the extension of time. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic - a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11435	Mrs. Komic, I don't know if you are aware of how much you contribute to the atmosphere in this assembly? If you are going to lecture us on good behavior and address only the MPs of the opposition parties, especially the MP club of the SRS, you are ignoring the fact that your overwhelming obligation is to determine the quorum for the work of this assembly. You don't have to be warned about that by the MPs. You didn't do it once. You warn MPs that they must register with their registration cards, and you ignore the fact that DOS MPs use other people's cards when we determine the quorum. You have never expressed a measure in accordance with Article 113(2). And that's the distance from the session. Therefore, you have double arches when it comes to the application of the Rules of Procedure. And then when the MP who advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'll tell you Articles 93, 96 and 113, paragraph 2, you're giving us a lecture on good behavior again. We learned about good behavior from our parents, from their teachers, teachers, and there's no need for you to give us those lectures. Train your children at home, and try to raise yourself. Indeed, this congregation is increasingly, thanks to you, like a train station. Attention, attention, the King's train is arriving on track five. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11436	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic warned that the chairman is violating the Rules of Procedure. The fact that I am obliged to give an explanation represents the freedom of comment of MPs who violate the Rules of Procedure. Does the MP want the National Assembly to declare whether the chairman is in violation of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) There is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic, after which Djura Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11437	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very difficult for me to talk after these really big, really big words about topics that are not at all on the agenda, regardless of whose mouth and from which they came from, about the draft law on building objects, which we normally cannot consider outside the context of the time we live in. Please, Madam Chairman, to warn MPs who have no patience to listen, at least hope for a peaceful exposure, if they do not provoke in the meantime to warn them to calm down a little, as they signal to my colleagues that they cannot hear me and to be a little louder. So, ladies and gentlemen, at this point in time when our country is truly in an invisible position, when our citizens do not have the means of living, the Serbian Parliament is considering the bill of amendments and additions to the Law on the Construction of Objects, as if the best time was happening in our country, as if all construction enterprises were doing well, as if we were in prosperity, in some period when we were building villas, towers and who knows what. Unfortunately for us, we are not in such a time, and as an illustration, I must remind the minister who is present here, one of the few ministers really, the hand-to-heart, who is present when it comes to the problem of his resolute, that, at least as far as the city from which I come, it is a deserted construction site that has been launched in one Pirot region since the arrival of DOS to power, where four buildings for young couples were built, in the realisation of the Construction Company "Progress", which is currently in agony, which has no business. So, such construction sites are all over Serbia's tusks and darkness. We solve questions, indeed, as I said, as if we were in the period of prosperity and flowering of our construction industry. But what is there is, the government has put this bill on the agenda of our congregation, although in my humble opinion there was much more to consider. Like I said, what's there. I must conclude once again that this bill shows a wrong concept of the work of the DOS government, a concept based on repression, a concept based not on revitalising production capacities, not on creating conditions for a better life, not on creating conditions for increased construction, but on penalties, to increase some of the amounts that the breakers of this law should pay. Basically, it's about one repressive bill. Far from being alone, as a socialist and as a man, against seducing a little more order in this area of our society. But like I said, we can't act like we live in America. Unfortunately, our government acts like the U.S. government, where the salary is, I don't know how many thousands of dollars. To remind you, the average salary in our land is about 4.500,00 dinars and with such a salary our man cannot build, but he cannot provide his children with the tuition you recently introduced without talking about the electricity that has cost more than 250% and who knows where it will come from. However, such a bill of law, therefore, as I am near the end of the exhibition, normally, and the beginning of a socialist party, and perhaps a my own echo in front of me and in front of my party, a physical person, an entrepreneur, or anyone who is a contractor of this law, is being brought into an uncertain position so that he can go to prison. Unfortunately, another eclectic example is that our government and this new government are only dealing with how they're going to send someone to prison. It is not enough for you to drive one of the great Serbian sons to The Hague, but for you to prepare for our citizens under such laws, when time is not, to drive them to Serbian prisons. So tomorrow at 6:00 p.m. in the Republic Square. Thank you very much. It is only proof that this parliament should be dissolved as soon as possible and new elections should be called, and propo events that are current.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11438	The word has the People's MP Đuro Popovic, followed by MP Marko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11439	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, Madam Chairman, the Honorable Ministers of Mr Dragoslave Šumarac, I am unreservedly in favour of the views of the Serbian Unity Party, or the MP group to which I belong, which were held during yesterday's debate in principle. I am doing this not only because of the proper discipline that makes our 14 MPs unique, but also because of my personal and sincere conviction. I am the second day in this class as a member of the People's Parliament, and I must tell you that I am truly disappointed with the laws that the Serbian Government has offered us for adoption. I'm disappointed for many reasons, and I'm most confident that every honest man can't, and that he doesn't irritantally ignores even the soulless attitude of a supposed democratic and expert government towards a large part of his own people. Obviously, the proposed goal of the promoter is to clear, so to speak, overnight, the lawless construction. Built in a kind of legal precedent that is hard to believe exists in a civilized world. This act is like it's directed against the fundamental human right to the dignity of man's life. It hurts me even more that the legal blade is largely aimed at the most deposed part of our population. The undisputed number of lawless builders is made up of refugees and exiles, and Serbs. Should this mass of unfortunate people live for the last decade, this first year of the new millennium, the third exodus of the Serbian people? Wasn't their fires burned enough? Should they see their countrymen tear down a little roof over their heads, and that's why they're doing time? How can you not think that the current power in mind is some kind of hellish plan to banish these people from their beloved queen? As the Government of Serbia's Government does not sign anyone else to Mr. Joseph Kasa, a member of the national minority in which there are also our fellow citizens who have raised their building skills for them in the reserve state. For those of us who do not have a spare homeland, it comes to our attention that we are the only ones in our premises who are building homes, even illegally, and first with the support and help of our own government. All of this raises the need for wild construction and its profiteers to finally get in the way, but this must be selective and gradual. This is not achieved by dragon law, obviously against the hungry and in many cases the disreputed pensioners, the disabled and the socially endangered. That is why we will not support this proposed law of the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11440	The word is made by MP Marko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11441	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a "slight, small" law that means a lot at the moment, because the hint of much larger and more significant laws in this area, which I am sure will, by the end of this year, put the full legislation on construction and put an end to what has been happening in Serbia for the past 30 years. We all know our cities from which we originate and common within all these cities is the ring of wild construction, around the center of each of these cities that were once, before or in the near past, built by some urban norms, whether they mention here - Queens, Empress Mary Teresa or some Serbian architects, or in recent times until the 70th year of some of our domestic builders. However, what is surrounding these cities, half the wild construction that took place in the 1970s and so on, I must confess by the guilt of the authorities and by the authority and all of us, born a set of consensus between the citizens and the government, to stand in the way of the common destruction of what is most worth in this country, which is land and the use of that land. This law, I'm going back to it, there was controversy here about everything and everything, can be summed up in a few sentences. First, in these 10 members who are proposed, it means the following: an investor who builds the future, not until now, but in the future, will be sentenced to prison by one year. So not one year, but up to one year; the entrepreneur, means whoever builds it, whether it's a firm or a privateer, however, will be punished up to three years. So, not three years, but up to three years. The scale exists; then the natural person in the competent institutions, in the relevant public enterprises, telecommunications, plumbing, sewers and power plants, who allows such facilities to join those facilities or that infrastructure I mentioned earlier, will be punished for up to three years. Here we see one thing, that as far as the penalty measure is concerned, the least punishable investor is, and most of all those who do not admit that the investor does not have a license continue to do what was bad in this society. So, the law's intensities are not to stand by the investor's neck, but to use those who do not have permission to continue to build, to stand by their necks and to prevent further work. What can I tell you further about this law? Many things are mentioned, a bad habit and the purpose of this law is to turn one situation in society back 30 years. She's next. Whoever's been building without permission and who's been building without permission for this 30-year period, he's done something. He who tried to build with permission came across a mountain of paper, on a hill of obstacles, and that man either gave up construction, fled from this climate where it was impossible to build in a legal way, without bribering, paying off the rest, and that man got that permit in his blood, and after a very large number of years he still began to build. You know what happened in the meantime, inflation and other things. The situation has to change. Those who do not have permission will be punished for building and all those who participate in the construction process without permission. Anyone who builds with permission and who intends to build with permission will be far better under the express procedure than before, and after the adoption of these laws by the new year from urbanism and construction, I am sure of some and much faster, they will be extended and put first, in such a way that they will receive urban documentation and building permits much faster than they have so far. I must admit that this law that we are surely adopting today is a small step in addressing these problems that have been accumulated back 30 years in urban and construction of Serbia, but are obviously a major step in preventing the will of individual investors, the financial will of individual investors, the corrupt authorities and individuals in the bodies of municipal administrations and municipal enterprises. I'm sure the controversy that's been raised this far by the opposition to this law is just coming out of the obvious fact that it's the kind of practice that gets by the neck. Therefore, according to that people - stop them while they are young, let us prevent a small law until they have passed those great laws. And this little one will be passed, and those big laws will be passed after this. There's only one danger in these laws, it's enforcement. A similar law has been passed in Montenegro, the same criminal measures have been given, but according to old custom, it is excellent. In what way? In one way, our judiciary, which is still sick, all these penalties that we've predicted here, has changed into parole. So you get a one-year sentence for building a wild one, and the court changes it to a three-year probation. You have an object that was built without permission, you've been suspended for three years, and we know it's freedom. So, you're on the loose, too, and you have an object. I demand from the Secretary-General as chairman of the Committee on Urbanism, that this law be done in coordination with other legal institutions and without the help of all other ministries, you know which one I mean, this law will be another disappointment, but with the help of the other ministries, this law will be the one that needs to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11442	No Members of the People have been reported. The word was sought by the minister, Dragoslav Šumarac.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11443	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that I did not have the opportunity to report again and again to answer some specific questions, respecting first of all the Rules of Procedure that only twice can be spoken in the name of the promoter during the principle debate. In the next few minutes, I'll try to answer all these questions. At first, I want to point out that the law has no retroactive effect. From the moment of entry into force of this law, every newly launched facility will have to have a building permit. So, objects so far built, started, are not the subject of this law, this is the answer to Mr. Kovacevic and Mr. Milan Ernjakovic, if I remember the names correctly, the law is not retroactive. We hope that by passing this law, as Mr. Sredoje Mihajlov said well yesterday, that no one will even come under his attack and that it will be primarily preventive, in the sense that all the obligations necessary to build one object are fulfilled, above all what is needed by local self-government to arrange and compensate for city building land, to regulate communals and infrastructure. It's not exactly the claim that the opposition has made here that millions of people will be arrested. The other thing that's motivated here is that the law primarily applies to refugees and the poor. That's not true. First of all, the Serbian government has launched and proposed and has put one project as a priority to address refugee accommodations for a donor conference, and we are working together with Habitasta on the programme, and it will certainly come to life soon. As proof that this law is not directed against refugees and the poor and that it is primarily directed towards not getting more lists than we have received from an inspection of the Savawere, a list of objects that are subject to the law that you have adopted here and which the government has proposed on a one-time income tax and extra property, here we have 80 such objects, and these are all objects whose value is above half a million marks, whether they are villas or business facilities, none of the refugees are here on this list. I have to say, first of all, there are companies like Pink TV, which were already mentioned by the Gemaks Company, Colling, unfortunately all the companies that were close to the previous government. Normally, there are individuals like the Karic family etc. There will still be words about that in the next period. It is another answer to Mr Milan Ernjakovic, that this law does not apply to refugees at all. The third thing has been demonstrated primarily by the MPs DOS, Mr Mihajlov, Mijailovic, Svetovic, with the right, and this is confirmed by Lord Cedomir Jovanovic, Mr Panajotovic, Milan Markovic, etc., that this is not a comprehensive solution. We have taken the first step towards stopping illegal construction, and we have a job to do in fixing urbanism and simplifying the process, above all with urban and construction permits. There's a lot of responsibility in local self-government. Mr. Svetovic is, as far as I know, the president of Gornji Milanovac, so we will make a strategy with him as soon as possible to get the best solution. I would like to point out once again that New Saduvec has taken action to issue construction permits in one place, according to a simplified procedure. Mr Nenad Bogdanovic has made a public promise that it will be in Belgrade soon. That's what I'm sure he's working on. We will go to Gornja Milanovac and all the cities in Serbia with Mr. Svetnović. Together with the Council of State Administration of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and with Mr. Kavran, we put this group as a priority at the State Administration Promotion Agency. I hope, as the president of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction has promised, that we will have comprehensive solutions by the end of the year. Normally, it cannot be expected without a law on denationalisation to make a draft law on city building land. Fourth and last, I must say that I fully agree with Mr. George Mamul, that the least hypocritical is what has been brought here by Serbian Radical Party MPs, that they are proud of what has been done in Zemun. I want to answer specific questions that have been asked. When we said that, unfortunately, those facilities that were in infrastructure, the previous government in Zemun, and now the opposition in this assembly, would just look at their interest to collect some income under the parole compensation for city building land, so they would issue parcels on the corridor that was on First May Street, which is now according to urban plans for the second tape on First May Street and even for the pipeline. This best speaks of the previous republican government and the previous government in Zemun, as it did not respect the laws itself. Namely, the old Zemun core is protected by the state. The Ministry of Urbanism and Building is responsible for him. There, again, in order to collect more income, illegally, illegally sell attic spaces, allow building. In addition, in that protected zone they gave permission to build. It was all a temporary permit, because people didn't even care. They probably thought they'd stay in power forever. So they had four buildings built in public space and the municipality charged 363,000 dinars. This is the Ministry of Urbanism and Building, along with the current municipal government, unfortunately, had to collapse. Finally, it is particularly hypocritical that the Socialist Party of Serbia is accusing the current government, above all, criticising the law. I think that Mr. Jovanovic and Mr. Panajotovic have already responded, however, that the Ministry of Urbanism and Building, together with local self-government, is the most responsible for editing the area and editing the entire area. Simply, that's what Mr. Panajotovic said nicely, and in that case, when the local government asked for assistance from internal affairs authorities in preventing some construction, you simply didn't want to cooperate. It is true that Mr. Ivkovic here said that they had passed a dozen laws. However, Mr Marin Kresic replied nicely that in 1931 we had only one law that edited everything from building buildings, city building land, urbanism. At the time, Serbia was the most orderly. With the arrival of communists, and especially with the arrival of the current opposition to power, and over the past ten years, the number of laws has grown, and unfortunately, the number of lawless objects has grown. The moment Mr. Ivkovic passed these laws, which he boasts, and now there are probably 30,100 laws, which are prescribed, there were 70,000 lawless buildings in Belgrade, and now there are over 200,000. Mr. Milan Markovic said there are 25,000 in Palilula alone. There are now some 17,000 illegally built objects in Zemun. In particular, there is no criticism at the expense of local authorities. We have an example -- at a time when the gentlemen who are now here at the SPS MPs were at the Ministry of Urbanism and Building, that the ministry allowed one prominent member of the SPS, Mrs. Gorica Gajević, to pay in Kopalnik, in the national park, which has nothing to do with local self-government, to get 4.3 acres of pay. So, next to the Grand, in the center of the national park, without compensation and for unlimited time. That's where the lady mentioned, along with Chaetin, made a seven-story hotel. Gentlemen, which is a lot, it's a lot. That's not even Joseph Broz's doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11444	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, a replica. I ask the People's Messengers to hear from each other. National MP Tomislav Nikolic answered the question. The basis for the replica is the mention of the political party. He's the deputy president of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11445	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am, on a number of grounds, unequal to the minister. It even shows this visual. I've spent a lot of my life. I'm gray, and the minister isn't. He doesn't care. He had a nice life. Several lies have been told about the municipality government in Zemun, which was carried out by the SRS. Immediately to clarify - if built on buildings under the protection of cultural monuments, the investor was obliged to obtain conditions from the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments. It's not community business, and the community had nothing to do with it. We've given locations for many facilities with a temporary purpose, but if you bring in that land, tomorrow you can tear down any one of them. Whoever auctioned the location and took it, signed that he would tear down the moment when the municipality brought the land for purpose. So you have no obligation, no new authority, no authority has any obligation to any temporary facility on Zemun territory. Not once. We weren't just selling the crying, just worrying about our interests, about filling the register. The cash doesn't charge, Mr. Minister, at a price of 15 dinars per square metre for the crying, and you know it very well. Our problem is the refugee problem that spard with Zemun, having no more place to go, and that's this problem that we had to solve, and we solved the land gas that someone without a lot of brains had set up for a dump, in a place where the groundwaters and winds wouldn't allow, which would pollute not only Batajnica, but half of Zemun. We used that land, we parched it, we sold it, people made the houses. In some settlements we managed to bring electricity, we brought water to some settlements, we brought all the way and the macadam streets, so that's what we managed to do in four years. I guarantee you, those settlements would be completely civilized by now, have all the infrastructure, if the Serbian radicals had stayed in power. We didn't take down any buildings in Zemun, but the citizens knew if they built on someone else's street, on a public traffic station, they'd be destroyed. If you have a building, you know when you have 10,000 illegal objects in Zemun, and when a man builds in his backyard, it's very difficult. You'll face it, too. It's very hard to get into the yard and take down another room or something that's been built. Isolated from all over Serbia, Mr. Minister, the municipality of Zemun, so it is here to mark it as a municipality that deserves criticism from the new minister of urban and construction, it is hypocrisy. I call it hypocrisy. No radicals were taken from the town of Plac, no radicals were used. (President: Three minutes, 30 seconds, and I ask the MPs not to earn, that we respect the Rules of Procedure. You throw it, you're used to it, I'm used to it, I'm used to it, I'm used to it and you threaten me and you'll what? The soul only goes to God. No soul can take power. I can't have Mr. Ceda Jovanovic, who just didn't have the right to reply, so you didn't give him your word. I'm giving him a chance now, because I can't wait for him to come out for this pay phone. He can't object to anything to me. He's got his own life. (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... You can go four and four, I always go, you know how it goes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11446	With no more, I'm sorry, MP Stanko Kovacevic, a replica, misreading in the presentation of the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11447	Mr. Minister, in part of his statement on this bill, in order to prove that this law is not retroactive, said -- this is besides the answer to MP Kovacevic's statement yesterday. I took it right away and looked at my exposure and I didn't mention retroactiveness in my presentation yesterday. Now I've read Article 43a, which says that the buildings whose construction was started and the buildings that were completed without a building permit, can't be connected to that, that, that. It's one of the elements of retroactivity. It's not the most important thing to me either. It is very important to me that no one understands that the MP Kovacevic or the Movement for Democratic Serbia, who has delegated me here within the DOS, is against the legal proposal to introduce order in building construction facilities. We're not even against such proposed criminal provisions. We are in order for this regulation to be fully regulated, so that first of all, the creation of conditions for quick, cheap and legal obtaining a building permit, to make the cheap construction, to respond first to those in municipal, urban and republican administrations that abuse their positions, preventing citizens from exercising their rights, and only then to punish those who abuse their right to build. Again, that is why I have indicated that the adoption of this law would cause major political damage to DOS and the current government in Serbia. If I were an opposition, I would vote for this bill, because whoever dares to tear down 700,000 objects or a few hundred thousand people in prison based on that responsibility will get 700,000 voters against themselves, maybe a million voters against themselves. It's not DOS interest. Thank you. Where'd you read that? )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11448	National MP Slobodan Pavlovic. On what basis are you looking for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11449	As an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11450	It's been used, used three times.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11451	Replication to Mr. Secretary's presentation. It's about the SPS and the Ministry and some other names.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11452	That's okay, because on behalf of the MPs' club, the law was used. The word has a National MP Slobodan Pavlovic, as representative of the parliamentary group, replicating the presentation of Minister Šumarac.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11453	I'm sorry, I had to explain to Mrs. Chairman why I was answering. It is true, and you know that I spoke for 14 minutes and 47 seconds in my first day as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group and used my right to report. So, I don't have that right right now, but I'm not going to abuse the Rules of Procedure, but I'm replicating three things, and I'm going to have to do with Mr. Shumartz's exposure. First, Mr. Shumarac, in defence of the bill that the ministry has prepared, and the government has proposed, should have arguments to justify those solutions that have been proposed, that they are comprehensive, that they are established, that they are legal, that they are constitutional and that they are in the service of the people. If that works, that's fine. If there are no arguments, it is used by calling the SPS, to mention names, such as Gorica Gajevic and some people who were in the ministry. What I'm saying is that it's an absolutely inadequate argument and it's not worthy of a minister or this law. That's one. Two, in the presentation that I had on the first day and the head of our parliamentary group, Prof. Bane Ivkovic, who was the building minister, and I, his deputy, as Mr. Shumarac called us, explained that this area has just been governed by seven system laws, which have functioned since 1995, which we have proposed, and the National Assembly adopted and they have functioned. What you suggested is actually something we called repression. So you didn't question a single law that worked, and you didn't suggest a better one, and you announced it by autumn. All right, when you suggest, then we can talk about it. Thirdly, the plot Mr. Šumarac mentioned that the municipality of Cajetina assigned it to Gorica Gajević - has nothing to do with the Ministry of Construction of the then, or with the Government, nor was any paper and document signed by the building ministry in connection with the construction. So this object that Mr. Schumarac mentioned is obviously an illegal object, which should be put on the list of all of these that were mentioned, and there was no reason to make it very special. If that's what you wanted, for the sake of effect, let me tell you right now -- nothing to do with the ministry, nothing to do with me or Ivkovic or the Socialist Party. It's about the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11454	It's refreshing to see an MP who knows what three minutes it is. If there are no more reports, I conclude a principled search and put to the vote a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Construction of Objects, in principle. For 113, against 59, there were no abstentions, did not vote 7, out of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The Government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11455	Dear Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, respected journalists, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Construction of Objects and for the sake of the public I want to read it - "Article 43a adds a new position that reads: "The building facility, whose construction was completed without a building permit, and which serves for housing and has been moved before the adoption of this law, can be granted temporary permission to connect to the power grid, telecommunications network, plumbing and sewerage. The temporary connection permit shall be issued for a maximum period of five years. If the owner does not obtain the necessary building permit, or does not legalise the facility, the importance of the temporary connection ceases and cannot be restored." The committees responsible and the Government have, of course, rejected the amendment. Of course, the explanation I read there does not surprise me, but I mean that I did not submit the amendment without knowing, Mr. Minister, that it is contrary to the basic objectives of law-making. So that's not controversial. I made the amendment first of all by thinking that those people who are already living in buildings that were built without a building permit can, in this way (and this is what Mr Stanko Kovacevic was talking about now) remain without all these communal connections, without which life cannot be organized. Although it has been claimed here several times that the law is not being retroactively applied, it is precisely, if a member of 93 is accepted, that it applies to those who have moved into their facilities and live in them today. I think that the number of families that live today in buildings that are not built, and of course not using a permit, is so large that it deserves the special attention of this National Assembly and I think that if this amendment is not accepted, these people will be faced with one real consequence - that they can remain without rights, or without basic conditions to organise their families' lives in the buildings they themselves built. I deliberately singled out objects here that have a commercial purpose, so I didn't suggest that this amendment applies to objects that serve to perform some kind of economic activity, and have no building permit, were not built in accordance with the applicable regulations. So that was the essence of my amendment. I have in mind several thousand families in Cacca, several hundred thousand families in Serbia living in such facilities, which may have a serious problem if this amendment is not accepted. There are entire settlements in the cities of central Serbia and other parts of Serbia, which are built (not to comment on it now, because we talked about it in principle) and which today do not have the necessary documentation. If it is known that there is also a threat to the merasification, because someone can move back into an object that has already been evicted, then we are bringing Serbian citizens into a very delicate situation. It would not be good if we passed a law that the government subsequently had to withdraw from the procedure, as a law that applied to the pay grade, although almost everyone in this booth warned that it could not be applied if it was adopted in the form in which it was proposed. I therefore ask the Members of Parliament to accept this amendment. It has full meaning and can in some ways reduce the real consequences that many citizens can have if the amendment is rejected. As for this rally for tomorrow, they've already said all about it, but of course, Monday, with the Polimlje Socialists, we'll celebrate SPS Day, mark it at 20 o'clock, in Priboj. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11456	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? He has the word National MP Slobodan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11457	Madam Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, I would like to ask all of you, dear colleagues and colleagues, to pay special attention to the amendment submitted by my colleague and MEP, Mr Rajko Baralic. The amendment can be considered threefold, firstly, is it true that Minister Šumarca and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a proposing that this law has no retroactive fact? That's what Mr Kovacevic was talking about earlier, and that's what a colleague of mine was talking about this afternoon. The Minister of the Forest assured him he wasn't there, and he did it again. But if this amendment is not accepted and it allows the buildings that have been built illegally until the adoption of this law, and they serve as housing, they can get a connection to the infrastructure - in which case the law has a retroactive fact, because it directly refers to all the facilities that have been built so far. Secondly, we will make progress in this sense, what we will enable, if the facility is already made, if it serves as a home, if it lives and lives in it by citizens of Serbia, women, children, etc. Then why punish them, that they can't use, at least temporarily, infrastructure and live civilizedly and culturally? Within that period of five years, to the extent that a temporary permit can be obtained for other facilities, whoever built it illegally, has the conditions to, and under this law, and under the Law on Legalisation, legalise the facility, and legalise that connection. And, ladies and gentlemen, if the facility is built on infrastructure, on transverses or where that urban plan is not allowed, it will not be legalized and, unfortunately, it will be on the list of those who will be torn down. If the facility can be legalized, then it makes sense to accept this amendment and thus improve the situation and make life easier for those who already live in those buildings.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11458	There's a word from MP Stanko Kovacevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11459	Madam President-in-Office and honourable MPs, I point out the need to discuss Article 134(3) on Article 43a of the Bill of Law. Because that view reads: "When the bill contains provisions which provide for a feedback when voting on these provisions, the National Assembly will particularly decide whether there is a general interest in this feedback." The legislator did not propose a feedback. But it is expressed a certain degree of doubt that such a defined provision of Article 43a assumes a feedback because it says: "Built buildings and buildings built without a building permit cannot be connected". That is why it is necessary, Mr. Minister, to support your claim that there is no return fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11460	Article 134 regulates the feedback and is not the subject of the work of this assembly, because the Legislative Committee, or a proposal for members who are known to have a feedback, as we had the draft laws, has classified it. If there's no feedback... Do you want to make a statement about the violation of that provision? (Stanko Kovacevic, from the post: I would prefer the minister to declare himself. ) I ask MP Stanko Kovacevic to separate all of us here together. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are our obligation, fortunately by itself, Mr Dragoslav Šumarac has nothing to do with our Rules of Procedure, except to act as other participants in the debate when his agenda is held at the session of the Assembly. This is our duty, not our minister. (Stanko Kovacevic, from the post: I suggest that the Assembly declare whether a member of 43a has a feedback. The congregation cannot be declared whether a member has a feedback or not. (Alexander Vukic, from the site: The Assembly gives authentic interpretation. The congregation has repeatedly said that this law is not retroactive in any of its provisions. It can't be more authentic. There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 1. The bill, i.e. Article 43a of the Law on the Construction of Objects, creates great doubt. He's one of the key. After all, there are only three key members. But this one's really crucial, because it's making a big deal out of it. I can't say that it causes retroactive fact, but it causes consequences on which citizens didn't count until the day of entry into force of this law and which did not exist until the day of entry into force of this law, and will be applied to the already built objects. You can talk about retroactivity here. If there was no object in the country built without permission, then this law wouldn't be retroactive, but we have this article and the foundations, and the first and second plates, and a covered house, and an opalescent house that doesn't have any of the connections. I'm not just saying electricity, maybe it's not connected water, sewerage, maybe it's not PTT. This member of the law is rigorous, like this. When you vote for the bill, I ask you not to vote for good intentions, but for good solutions. This member is rigorous and he says, "The house built without a building permit cannot be attached to the utility." He doesn't say he can't be connected if he doesn't get a used permit, and how he'll get a used permit, if there's no water and electricity. He doesn't say - she'll be able to be connected when she's legalized. The member says, "It can't be connected... "and it's over. Respected citizens of Serbia, all of you who have any object that doesn't have one of the installations, you will not, while this law applies, gain more, otherwise whoever connects electricity to such an object goes to jail. Why would anyone risk going to jail? I don't know what the billman meant, he didn't write it. Maybe he thought after the facility was agreed, he'd be able to join. But it doesn't say here. There are a lot of objects that will be consistent, why did you reject that possibility? The man on his plot where an individual housing building is scheduled took a copy of the plan, took the location, knows where the construction line is and knows what the facility is intended. He built a house without permission. And why shouldn't he legalize her? Well, then they won't get the plug 'cause this is where you say... Please, what you think communals are going to do is one thing, and what the law says is another thing. It says here, "The facility started or built without a building permit cannot be connected." It means that the amendment should be accepted because it represents a transitional solution. The investor is given a deadline to either match the facility, or he'll turn off all those connections he had. Well, why not? I think it's too rigorous. Many people in Serbia will be sick with this. It won't be magnificent objects, those magnificent ones are all getting plug-ins. There'll be people who can barely raise money to build a house, which makes a house on a mob, which, by selling their forests in the mountains, buy some material, so they go to other people's houses to help them. He made a record, maybe he put two windows on it, concreteized it, moved in, wants to connect water and electricity, this law doesn't allow it. Why weren't you even more rigorous, so you could say that all the buildings would start or be built without a building permit? Well, then we can retroactively determine whether or not we can. Because a house with no water, no sewers, no phone, it's not a house. It's a shed. The cattle can't live without electricity, and you want the people to live without electricity. To raise the chickens, you need one light bulb, and for children you need a oil lamp. I ask the legislator to accept the amendment or to give us convincingly what the consequences of this proposal are. Don't make it look like, "And whoever you're guilty of, you've lived in the previous regime, you've built houses in the previous regime." Now there's a line being made -- whoever made it, we don't crash it, but we don't give it anything, because he was building it in that regime. Now, whoever starts making in the new regime is going to get everything, and they're going to get permission in 15 days, as if that's possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11462	He has the word Minister Dragoslav Šumarac.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11463	Madam Chairman, the amendment is quite unnecessary for the reasons you explained. I know you've finished high school construction, and apparently the legalization process means getting a building permit. In order for the facility to be legalized, it can be done under the current law on building buildings. First you have to get a building permit. Therefore, this Article 43, which you have mentioned, does not prevent at all the connection of such an object to any network, either a water line or a sewerage, an electrical grid. Therefore, I think we've cleared this up and, therefore, this amendment is unnecessary. What has been put here as a bill of law means that if it were to go first and second for objects that start to be built from the moment of entry into force of this law, this is another prevention that this object does not join, another deterrence from illegal construction in the future, and I am sure that even you advocate that all existing objects must be legalized. That means the building permit has to be obtained.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11464	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 41, against 102, a abstentioned one, did not vote 24, out of a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Bozidar Vucurovic. The government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11465	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that article 2 be deleted in full. To be erased because of the confusion over Article 43a, which the minister now explains is something that will happen in the future. I'm not an expert in construction, but I am a language expert. In the future, construction cannot be completed without a building permit. If the building is finished, it's past. Thus, the law has a retroactive fact, and thus the prison sentences of up to three years which affect the investor and the one who builds and the one who gives connections are rigorous and unwise. To rely on the findings of the Ministry of Objects built without permission, around objects that have exceeded the allowed area is also unwise, because I have read these reports and I can tell you that 50% of the objects that the Ministry has stated that they were built by overrunning do not exist at all. There's no such thing as heaven or earth. Not even a spoon was buried in the ground to build the facility, and the Ministry found it, so it even laid a basis for it to pay taxes. It is said that one company, I can't remember what it's called, built an additional 2,500 square meters on the allowed 1,500 squares, so it is based on four million and two hundred thousand German marks. Believe it or not, the facility doesn't exist. It wasn't even dug up, but the Ministry found it. He found a bunch of such objects, and they found them on the basis of people being honest, so they paid for the utility, and they just left the papers and didn't go out to the field to see if the object existed. The same is done with the non-retroactiveness of this law and of Article 43 and of all the members who follow it. If the facility is finished, it can't be the future, it's just the past. It is finished and cannot be connected to electricity or water, and one that joins it will be punished by a prison of up to three years. Will he get a building permit? It probably will, but this member of the law doesn't allow anyone to connect water and electricity until they get a building permit, and the building permit depends on local bureaucracy, depending on the municipal bureaucracy. I'm telling you that for five years I've been waiting for a permit for an object that needs to employ 150 workers and that I can't get it. That an amendment to Article 43a has been accepted, that by law, and not by your story, it allows people to legalize objects, then everything else is fine and let it be ten years in prison. But to make it possible by law, not by story, because there's a lot of things that can be made possible. It's just that we don't trust you at all. If by law you allow people to enforce legalization, to get a building permit, then punish those who don't respect that law for ten years, but don't make a crumb law, don't make a law that even the one who wrote it doesn't understand, and then threaten punishments for up to three years. I said this was the Law on Amendments and Supplements to Criminal Law, amendments and additions to the Law of Infractions. This is all, except for the Law on Building Objects.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11466	The word has Tomislav Nikolic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11467	Article 2 The bill, which I propose to delete, provides for prison sentences for an entrepreneur who is a contractor or a responsible person in a legal person who is a contractor of works on a building built without a building permit and a prison is up to a year; and for a natural person who is an investor or responsible person in a legal person who is an investor of a building that is built without a building permit and will be sentenced for up to three years. A lot of doubt is causing this proposal to Article 2 because it is really rigorously trying to suppress one phenomenon that is in Serbia, I would say more for objective reasons than subjective reasons, (I mean not for subjective reasons builders), and it is that we begin to charge prisons for people who build their own or other homes without permission, who build businesses or any business facility, who own someone else. Now the question is, how do we determine the intersection? If one house is covered until the date of the law, will it go to prison the next day after the entry into force of this law begin to malternize from the inside? Will this be treated as works on an object that doesn't have a building permit? It will. Only the bill promoter can claim not to, but it really depends not on the promise from the assembly speaker, but on what is written in the law, and the law says that works on a building that does not have a building permit will be treated as a criminal offence punishable by imprisonment. The continuation of works on the facility that was initiated before the entry into force of this law, but for which there is no building permit, is a violation of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction of Objects. Next, the next dilemma. In the case of legal persons, I also reminded myself in the general discussion of the time I was a performer, even representing an investor; it was a happy time and you had to allocate funds to a special jury account and provide all consent and permits to start performing the works. Now we're not in the timing. I'm interested in who will determine what is the physical face of an investor of a building that is built without a building permit. What happens if the inspection comes to the house that's being built and said - this house is built without permission, we write down the records and who's the investor. Is there going to be a deal with the housewives? You know, the one who's the strongest is usually the investor, the one who's in full power, and it's not worth it to the family that he goes to jail. Are they going to determine Grandma or Grandpa? Will the child determine, determine whether or not he has the right to property? Just because it's underage doesn't mean he can't have property. Will he say - my little son is an investor of this facility. Will you sentence the prison for the child who's building the house? You have to think about everything. It's the easiest thing to write three or four members of the law and say, "Here, we're the new government, we're stopping wild construction." I agree first with stopping wild construction. You know, when there's a million buildings without a building permit, the one that the militia drives along will be looking at these objects that have been built back four to five years and no one's in jail. There are seven-story objects, there are 5,000-square objects, and someone will be punished for a house that has 10 times 10, ground floor and floor, that house already has eight rooms. Is there a host in Serbia who makes a smaller house than 10 times 10, ground floor and floor? She's got a poor girl who ran off with one bag, so she's got as much money as she has. He who decides in Serbia to tear down an old house or builds a new one, who has roots here, he makes a house. We're still the host people. I would ask the legislator to think a little more about it because it is illusory to expect you to withdraw this bill. You're not ready for that, but when you prove to me that every citizen of Serbia in every unit of local self-government in which he wants to build a house has a secure salary that he can buy, I'll vote for a law like this. One more thing, people decide to build a house without permission because obtaining permits is an extremely expensive job. If he has the money to invest in cement, gravel and armature, which he just needs for the foundation, he's not ready to give away any big money right away for the construction land. Now from community to municipality, things are predicted for wars, and people always count that it's a cost that can be delayed, and the cost of building a house cannot be delayed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11468	Do any of the other participants in the debate want a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 40, against 105, there were no abstentions, there was no 18 vote, of a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Hranislav Peric, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. In accordance with Article 38(2), The Rules of Procedure cannot submit any more amendments to the same member of the bill, so that the two amendments submitted by MP Hranislav Peric to article 2 are joined into one, which will be declared by the National Assembly. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11469	Article 2 adds two new members, including Article 52a and Article 52b. They have absolutely nothing to do with each other and regulate different matter. The first, 52a, reads: "An entrepreneur who is a contractor or a responsible person in a legal person who is a contractor of works on a building built without a building permit (Article 24.He'll be punished for a crime in prison for up to a year. A natural person who is an investor or a responsible person in a legal person who is an investor of a building that is built without a building permit (Article 24."), they will be punished for a prison sentence of up to three years. "So, an entrepreneur as a contractor can be punished for up to a year. When we proposed these criminal measures, we didn't count on it and we don't look at it practically as it is built in Serbia. They don't have a lot of money so they can hit the building, hit the house and take the key in their hands and pay for it. People get along in a variety of ways and I think there's going to be a lot of problems here, and this question is going to be difficult to settle. I believe, since you have a majority, that you will also adopt this law, but I don't think these criminal measures will solve any questions. I put the amendment on Article 52b. My proposal is to delete Article 52b from the law. The member I propose to delete reads: "A natural person who connects or a responsible person in a legal person who allows the connection of a building or construction facility without a building permit to an electrical power grid, telephone, plumbing and sewerage, will be punished for a crime in prison for up to three years." This applies to buildings being built or built. This article lacks only the names against which you want citizens on this basis to initiate the procedure and collapse. It's always the same goal for you to pursue political opponents. At the level of a certain sentence -- up to three years in prison, it is clear that Vladan Batic also participated in the draft or draft laws. As soon as the minister is involved in making the law, Serbia's citizens are immediately offered a prison, and according to Batic's laws, he wants to shut down all citizens who disagree with him, so he can do whatever he wants. Could this bill be settled in a democratic way, in a modern way, without prison, does this member fit in with pre-election promises? I don't understand that even though you have law experts in DOS like Mr. Mamula, you accept laws like this that provide nothing good for citizens, but only high taxes, low earnings and prisons. If it's from the government, that's enough, fair enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11470	Do any of the other participants in the debate want a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 42, against 107, there were no abstentions, there was no 18 vote, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Stevan Kesejic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Petar Jojic. The Government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, as the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11471	I wouldn't be your aunt, not at all. Mr. Forester, I believe you know what axinometrics is. I believe you know what static is, and now I can see that you don't even know what axinometrics is, even though you're an engineer. What's a legal norm and what's a building permit, you've shown that you don't know. You're talking about building permits like everyone in Serbia who wants to build can get a building permit. I'll tell you he can't, and I'll prove it to you. On both sides of Toshin's well, you know what objects are like, I guess you've been through the Earth before, I see you know the Earth well. These are waste buildings about 70 years old, some and 100 years old, and some are already in a ruinous state. In 1969, a detailed urban plan was presented, under which a new traffic station was scheduled. It's never been realized. Whether or not it will ever be realized, the question arises. There's also some factories. I guarantee it won't happen for the next 20 years. In Tosha's well, people can't build, they can't get a building permit. Forced to keep their facilities for housing, they have to build illegally because the municipality can't give them permission. Are we going to send people like that to jail for starting to build? It's not just Tosha's well. One third of the municipality of Zemun is not covered by any bases, or any regulatory plan. It would be clear to me that you predict such restrictive measures, that you have forced local self-government or provided funds, and now you have the possibility, at least in 95% of the municipalities, you have the authority, so call those presidents of the municipalities and say, you have a period of a year - two days to bring regulation plans and to know where anyone can build. As long as you don't secure it, you can't predict such provisions when it comes to building illegal objects. There's a feeling that you only think about those objects that fall into your eyes. And they're falling into all of our eyes. I personally have a facility next to my house that's extremely disturbing, because it's also up to six floors. At the time I was in office of the minister, I failed to force the municipality of Chukarica to destroy the facility, yet fundamentally, because it is a person who is now close to your current regime, and also to the latter. Such facilities have been built in Belgrade since 1996. Before 1996, we had no buildings on parcels intended for individual residential construction, and the floor construction was higher than two floors and attics. That's not what happened. That's what you, the Together Coalition, then the SPO, the DS and the Civil League contributed. So I don't know what you're talking about. What's absolutely illogical is this first attitude, where you entrepreneurs want to punish the prison for up to a year. Some people here say it's not much to a year. I'm asking if anyone's been in jail for a week to see what it's like, if it's a lot or if it's small. This raises the question of who people will determine for an investor. They will seek sacrifice in the family, if they are forced to build without permission, because the state did not create conditions for them to build on permission, to send her to prison. It will be grandmothers and grandfathers, and maybe aunts, as the Lord says or calls me as I approach the speaker. You haven't thought about the moment you're passing this law. Of course, it is necessary to prevent illegal construction, to protect existing buildings. Many are threatened by these new objects, but you have to invest something first, to create conditions for construction. Well, people pay taxes, you raise taxes to the bone. 20% each and everything is taxed. It is normal for the people to expect you to return a little of that money to him, or to bring in these plans, or build a new plumbing, sewerage, or electricity, and to feel some improvement. Oh, not just -- put it in the register, and we'll do whatever we want and whatever we want. That's what you think about when a law like this is passed. I'd like you to come out and explain to me, I've asked you a direct question -- what about those areas that aren't covered by the bases and that have no plan and where a man simply can't get permission? What's he gonna do? Wait till he gets a ceiling on his head, so he doesn't build an object without permission.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11472	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? National MP Aleksandar Vukic, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11473	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to make it clear to the public what the amendment is about, I will read the proposed member of the law. He says in his first position: "An entrepreneur who is a contractor or a responsible person in a legal person who is a contractor of works on a building that is built without a building permit will be punished for a crime in prison for up to a year. "In its second position, it is even more rigid, even more restrictive: "a natural person who is an investor or a responsible person in a legal person who is being built without a building permit will be punished for a criminal offence by up to three years. "In fact, this represents something that is extremely bad. Everyone who's finished law school knows that. Seeing as you're trying to figure out who finished what, I'm in law school, and I'm pretty successful. That's where we were learning -- and so do your teachers who are here, but they won't report to praise your law -- the point is that you can't allow the spread of so-called. secondary criminal law. Every new law proposed by this government to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am building, not every one, but almost every one, contains criminal and legal sanctions. It's something that's totally amazing. We'll never be able to, or it'll be a really amazing job for someone who wants to do it, which would be necessary for this country, to codify criminal law, because no one else can live in this kind of criminal and legal sanctions anymore, and to know what he's forbidden, what he can't do, or how many years he'll be sentenced to, if he can do anything. So, apart from the fact that by erasing this article, we're preventing further expansion of the so-called. I believe that, at the same time, we are preventing bad and restrictive measures that will lead to nothing but homes and the suffering of ordinary people, and absolutely nothing more. General and special prevention in criminal law is not governed by the law on building buildings. She's being led inside criminal-legal matter. It's not run like this. It can be guided by general conditions, by creating different general conditions in society, by special laws in the area, but not by making a back of specialis - and each time there will be one, two, three or five new criminal sanctions. It's something we have to start avoiding. In every law, the social-work law adopted by this assembly, there were criminal and legal sanctions. Now a man, because he's built the whole house and needs more water and electricity connection, and he's gonna give someone in the municipality, and some clerk or someone else is gonna give a man a building permit, three years in prison to win. Three years in prison for what? Because he made it possible for a man to live in what he himself had created. That's why he needs to get three years in prison. And what would he do with that house without electricity and water? Who lives here, how does he live? Nobody cares about that. There's a retroactive fact here. You were wrong, Mrs. Comic, when you did not allow the Assembly to plead. Also, they should know that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is carrying out authentic interpretations of the law. We have more different kinds of interpretations than target, logical, linguistic, whatever you want. There's an authentic interpretation of the law that's just doing this high house and no one else can do it. No one else is bound to do it. No one else can do it. If there was a disputed provision, of course, that the National Assembly had the power to decide exactly that and that it provided authentic interpretation of a certain standard, certain provisions, especially that it was quite clear that it was a norm that was contrary to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and at the same time to the basic legal regulations, the fundamental principle of law, which is the principle of legal certainty, which is clear that the government no longer adheres. Since there's been a lot of talk today, and you haven't warned those who told me and threw it out of place to lie and say that I'm not telling the truth, I brought photos here to show, but I see now that some of them who were shouting it are in a bar, in a restaurant. These are accidentally burned to the ground of the house of the Vucica family, but not our houses the problem from the village of Cipuljic, but 1,500 Serbian houses were burned, some people were skinned alive, and Serbian are nationalities. I know that doesn't interest you very much. I'm counting on you to play a movie tonight about Srebrenica and that film of the NATO Pact, to embarrass Serbia and the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11474	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote and asking the MPs to plead. For 35, against 103 abstentions, there was no vote of 28, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Lazar Marjanski, Aleksandar Vukic and Milorad Mircic. The Government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Lazar Marjanski, as the applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11475	Mr. Minister, you're, as I understand it, a technical face and you're not in the legal sphere. I mean, I'm technically a face, and I get it this way. Article 52b: "A natural person who connects or a responsible person in a legal person who allows the connection of an object to be built or built without a building permit on an electricity or telecommunications network, plumbing and sewerage (Article 43a), will be punished for a criminal offence by a prison of up to three years. "Article 43a, as it says - an object that is being built, that is, whose construction is completed without a building permit cannot be connected to an electricity, telecommunications network, plumbing, sewerage. I just have a few questions that are practical and true. What about the agricultural facilities that are now ending and which do not have permission to join the electricity? Namely, they exist in Vojvodina, the so-called "Vojvodina". Salashes, which are now modernized and at this point many salamis are building pig farms and cattle where they will feed them. There's a power going through there somewhere, and they want to join the current now, so they can have electricity, and they don't have a building permit. What's going to happen to these people? Whether these people will be punished by three years in prison or, under certain special conditions, they will be forgiven, or given permission. There are a lot of buildings in the villages that are built on the old estates in the wild, and without permission and without anything. They want to join the country water and electricity now. They don't have a license, they won't have one. What about these people? Are they going to be punished when they're three? If they will not, and this text says they will, under which conditions they will not be punished and why they must be punished. I'm in favor of not being punished. I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11476	Anyone else want a word? The word is Milorad Mircic, a National MP, as an applicant for the amendment, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11477	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my proposal is to delete this amendment for a number of reasons. One of the main reasons is that by adopting this member under this law, not only do we act rigorously, but the government proves that it has little to do with reality. Here, what is the situation in ordinary life (minister, perhaps you part and you know, and you may not know): when a man builds an object, a house, or any other object, in order to connect the electricity, it is usually done if more objects are made, he must invest in a transistor station. The investor isn't Elektroprivreda, he's the one who's gonna use it. So that's the extra cost. To connect from trafo to home, he has to get his own cables. Minister, if you didn't know, and I'm guessing you're a builder in that operating section, not in the molecular section, you have to buy a cable of at least 4 times 16 square meters (is that right, Minister? It's not cheap at all, and it's not cheap at all. In order to connect the phone or be a user of the PTT service, it must either individually or grouply invest in a PTT central, which is not cheap at all. The role is, in the first case of electricity distribution, and in the second case of PTT, just to take the actual money and release either electrical energy or to connect to that PTT plant. In this case, the legislator proposes that a person who includes such users should bear certain consequences. Look, that would be logical if the detailed or general urban plans were in agreement with regulatory plans that include the expansion or installation of the power grid or the PTT network. These are two separate and different areas and different laws are regulated and decision-making is made at different levels. A detailed urban plan may, but it does not have to be in agreement with the energy regulation plan. A detailed urban plan brings local self-government, and the energy plan brings public enterprise Elektroprivreda or a resolution ministry. Like I said, it can, but there doesn't have to be a consensus. The best proof of that is the situation that happens in municipalities and cities. Countless objects that have been erected have not even entered into the plan and development program of electricity distribution, especially PTT. What's going on now? People who invested in so-called. the trafostation or PTT central, and they do not have an urban permit, because this land has not been brought in for purposes or for the reason that no detailed urban plan or general urban plan has been adopted, will be excluded, will be punished, and in particular the additional person, legally or physically, who has done so will be punished. You know, that could be if things were ideally viewed, if they were perfectly viewed and said, something that is optimal in Serbia, which is that every municipality and every city have detailed urban plans or general urban plans. We know it's not like that. What confuses me is that the minister comes out of this box as an argument in the defense of this law is individual cases. Cases such as the Zemun municipality or cases of the minister smiling and saying the Karic brothers are not, Minister, some arguments about your function. You should be looking at Serbia in full. You need this problem to look at how it's real, to have research and research, where the biggest problem is, to react there, not individually to solve these problems. I hope that, as in the principle debate, you will adopt these details, that this law, based on your votes here in the Assembly, will live. But don't lose sight, percent, no matter how much you avoid, the most endangered will be those who have escaped, refugees who have made houses. You can deny it, but you don't have enough arguments. When you don't have enough arguments, then one minute you reach for something that's not suitable for any decent and decent Serb. You're mourning the victims. Every victim is regrettable, but did you remember what happened to those from Obrovec, Obrenovac, what about those from Grahovo, Livna, Dravar, what about those who stayed in Sarajevo, what about the great victims of the Serbian people? When are you going to mention them? For you, to remember or remember, come tomorrow at 18 o'clock in the Square of the Republic for a rally of patriotic parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11478	Do any of the amendment applicants want a word? There's a word from MP Alexander Vukic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11479	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was wrong earlier, and so I apologize to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to all the MPs, who took care of what I was talking about, but it seems to me that a small number of them were really listening, so that they knew what I was wrong about. I was just talking about this amendment, which at this point is on the agenda, instead of explaining Article 52a, so I was talking about Article 52b. In any case, I think it would be good to accept this amendment, because here it is, I would say, even less responsible, for some kind of secondary responsibility, and it is pointless for people to be punished for something like this by such high criminal sanctions. Why did I say that - because it seems kind of pointless to me, if business crimes have to be introduced already, if criminal offences have to be imposed, we don't have to impose those criminal sanctions that correspond to the execution of serious crimes, as they are introduced here, for something that, in essence, should not pose such a social danger. You know, every state takes care (and at least the minister to address, if the MPs don't have any interest in it) what is the social danger of a particular piece. In this case, it's not a criminal offence, it's produced in a criminal act. To the extent that it harms the state, to the extent that it bothers the state, and to which all the ways of the state should be opposed, and what are the measures that the state needs to take to contain it, to contain certain things, or to solve them in an incomparably better way. It seems to me that this is neither the place nor the way that this kind of preventive policy will be conducted. It will turn into something that is most repressive, and it seems to me that it will represent an all-powerful source, even arbitrary behavior, not to say the abuse of the authorities, who will be able to speak -- well, that one and that one gave him permission, let's go behind bars, this one and this one gave this one a building permit, has to go behind bars. And when you talk about it being a prison sentence of up to three years, those who know, they have to bear in mind that it will be a punishment of at least six months, because they must be used, although this is continental, not precedent law, court experience. It's simply impossible for such a punishment, whose maximum to that level is foreseen, to punish someone from 15 or 30 days in prison. So I think that this punishment, the punishment of three years, is not only too big, but also counterproductive, and it will only create great dissatisfaction in the people, dissatisfaction with ordinary people, who just want to live a normal life, and nothing more than that, and it seems to me that this amendment, at least as far as this secondary importance is concerned with Article 52, should be accepted. I think that, if you think about it, it can also be accepted by the DOS majority, which is why I would ask that all citizens, and you wouldn't lose anything, unless it's your goal to send someone to prison at all costs, but maybe it's the only goal of someone's rule, someone's government. I think that we would finally show the citizens that something in the Assembly can change arguments, not that only the majority decided to adopt what they themselves think should be adopted and that they will not respond to any proposals, no facts, no arguments that the opposition is making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11480	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote, For 39, v 107, abstention three, did not vote 22, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. In accordance with Article 138(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, the MP cannot submit any more amendments to the same article of the bill, so that the two amendments, submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic, to article 2 are joined into one, and on that one, the National Assembly declares itself. The Government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Slobodan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11481	Because I know how to explain it, you warned me that I had submitted two amendments to the same member, right? Okay. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, even if so, it is a technical aspect. The point is, there's something else. I also spoke in principle about the replica I had on the presentation of Mr. Minister. What I have proposed by amendment to Article 2 may be that most of you are not read and it makes sense. By adopting amendments 2 and in Article 52a of Title 1, and in Article 2, and in Article 52b, the Parliament, or parliamentary majority, could show a little more hearing for the whole problem than the Ministry has done as a processor, and the Government as a Proposer. Since the Legislative Committee has said that it is legally possible to sanction this as a legal criminal code and defined in the proposal at the height of the sentence, I have proposed the following - in Article 52a of the statement of 1st sentence: "it will be punishable for a criminal offence by up to a year", they are replaced by the words: "it will be punishable for a criminal offence by up to six months". Secondly, in the position of the 2nd same member, the words, "will be punished for a criminal offence in prison for up to three years", are replaced by the words "will be punished for a criminal offence by one year". Ladies and gentlemen, obviously my intention was to reconcile two exceptions: one - to go to maximum punishment up to three years, and the other - for what was required, not to be defined as a criminal-legal norm. I have proposed a medium solution that if the government and parliamentary majority insist on staying as a criminal law code, there will be no more than three years, not until one year, or up to one year, but up to six months. If that means something, if not for everyone here, then at least for those to whom this punishment, possibly, can apply, and likely will be. I ask you to have understanding and to accept this amendment and thus to maintain a criminal-legal norm, but to reduce by three times the threatened sentence provided for by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11482	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word from the authorized participants? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to approach the vote. For 33, against 100, a abstentioned one, 30 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not accept Mr Pavlovic's amendment. The word came from Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11483	In the last vote, we could see that there are not many MPs from the DOS in the O.R., and please, in accordance with Article 93. Rules of Procedure, establish the quorum, and pick up the cards that are in the parliamentary units before that, because there are no DOS MPs. They're not even in the hallway. Are they out of the building, in restaurants, you see it in MP clubs, but it's obvious, Mr. Shabic, there's no quorum. Please determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11484	National MP Natasa Jovanovic asked to establish the quorum. Please use the electronic system to determine if we have a quorum. I have to say, we don't have a quorum. I'm taking a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Assembly after the break. Please determine if there is a quorum for continuing the session. I'm asking Members of Parliament to put their identification cards in MPs' units. I find there's a quorum for continuing work. National MP Zivko Selakovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11486	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2 which reads in Article 2. - a new Article 52b of the Law, following Article 1, a new position 2 is added, which reads as follows: "The provision of Article 1 of this Article does not apply to buildings built without a building permit, which are, at the time of construction or through legalisation, registered in land books". In order to clarify the meaning of the amendment itself, here is an explanation. For example, if the building was built at the time of Turkish rule and is now a monument to culture, the building has been registered and since then there are land books. In the event of a sale or a secret owner who bought the facility seeking connection to an electrical network, pursuant to Article 52b, that person could not do so because he has no building permit. I immediately know the answer, and in fact the Government has given here in self-modification to my command, so it says - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the objects indicated in the amendment are not considered an unlawfully built object within the meaning of this law, since the book, or legalisation, has been carried out. That would certainly be good, and I wouldn't be setting up this amendment if it were really a legal state and that the laws, i.e. citizens' rights, were respected. The answer to my amendment would be fine, but I'll give you one living example. I'm sure many others know that, too, who had problems when they were leaving to search for the connection to the power grid. The officials responsible, I say, because I've been in such a situation a few times my whole life, I've been building something, I've never gotten anything from the state, and I've always had to hang around the counters, here's what the authorities in Elektro-distribution get, says - you can't join in no matter what you have a property sheet and the building is registered on any basis. When the building is registered on any basis in land books, it should stop the status of illegal construction, but the responsible people are solely asking for a building permit, because they know that there is no man of a hundred years ago and then the official tells you like this, and I'm responsible for it-- you can get a home number that was obtained in a variety of ways, 1000 marks was the price of the responsible officer in the pocket, and then they tell you to -- you go to pay 2,500 marks of normal participation for the count, and then you can get not one count, but ten counts. Then there's an end to every citizen's dilemma and he's not being asked for a building permit. That's why I suggested this amendment, that it wasn't too much of a word to stand for what I suggested. I'd only ask one brief question to the minister when he said it wasn't retroactively applied to illegal construction. He didn't give me an answer, and I meant the objects that were built P+8 instead of P+1. So, in order to legalize this facility, we need to change the detailed urban plan to read P+6 or 8. Then all of us in the area would have the right to build eight more floors.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11487	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 27, against 117, one abstention, did not vote 7. out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11488	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in principle debate when I spoke of the nature of the amendment and the addition of this law, in addition to the other things, I said that it was primarily repressive, and I mentioned less preventive, and now I again underline it, and that is the essence of this amendment that I have submitted, I said that in articles 3 to 9 of the proposed amendments to the fines, with an argument as it states in the reasoning of the law, are in line with the Law on Infractions and Commercial Crimes. In my explanation, I now underline this again, and that is the essence of Amendment 3 that I have proposed, in Article 3(1), the word "5,000 to 450,000 dinars" is replaced by the words "5,000 to 300,000 dinars". And you understand for yourself that the proposed level of punishment has been increased from 3 to 20 times or 300 to 2000%. I personally believe that such penalties are inadmissible, unsuitable, overemphasizing and that you should simply accept the amendment and reduce the penalties to the level I have suggested, because the secretary would actually confirm that the law does not only have the character of punishment, but also certain preventions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11489	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word is Branislav Ivkovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11490	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, 18 SPS MPs have, in principle, pointed to a complete lack of proper objectives in this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction of Objects. Namely, he was shown to be completely repressive toward the wrong goal. It is absolutely said that it is a fully regulated legislative area, which clearly knows who should do what on the republican level, but that local self-government has absolute authority in the management of city building land and the construction process to its authorities under the Constitution of Serbia. It is normal to talk about marriage, to know the first law. It is clear that certain projects, capital facilities of the Construction Act are placed at the level of the Republic and that only the Municipality of Chajetin can manage in the case-law area. So, the fruit of total ignorance is everything that has been said here in this direction, as it really is very little, perhaps pointless in the defenses of the project to mention lies about the crying, especially with the people you were close to in your youth. In any case, this amendment, proposed by MP Mr. Slobodan Pavlovic, is an amendment that tries to make a great sin, which you have done here by voting the law in principle, to reduce. It is clear that these provisions, which provide for fines of up to 450,000 dinars, directly motivate those who, due to the lack of urgency of local self-government in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Čačka, Kragujevac, where they are waiting for a year or two years, despite the legal provisions of the urban license or building permit, must be issued within 15 or a month, forced by such high rigorous penalties - that they may actually give bribes to obtain permission and finally start working legally. By reducing to 300,000 dinars, at least you're creating a chance for someone to honor and have enough to go, if necessary, into illegal construction, but not to bribe local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11491	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote and I am asking the Members of Parliament to make a statement. For 35, against 108, two abstentions, 9 did not vote, out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11492	Madam Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will try to be correct in that regard, since I have six amendments of which these four are now, to explain them at once. So Amendment 16 to Article 4, reads about as much as in Article 3, to say "100.000 to 450,000 dinars" fines, replacing with the words "100.000 to 300,000 dinars" and to return that the increase is not three to 20 times. This is also proposed in Amendment 5, and in Amendment 6, i.e. Articles 5 and 6. I don't know if it makes sense that every time I answer, I don't think so, because I know that you will accept all these four amendments, show understanding for the citizens of Serbia, reduce the fines and do a good deed for our citizens. It's exactly what I'm talking to you about, and I'm asking you to support the amendments. I won't answer again twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11493	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, as representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11494	I expected they might speak to an SPS representative, since the amendment is their MP, which may have led me to react a little later. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this set of amendments by Parliamentarian Slobodan Pavlovic aims to reduce that upper limit of punishment provided for certain offences sanctioned by this bill. I know you have no understanding of any mitigation of penalties and sanctions, and that's because, here, since you took over the republican government, when you look at the ideology of the bill that you've been delivering so far, it's obvious that your desire is punishment, sanctioning, banning, destroying, breaking up. So does this law, and so does this member of the amendment. A team before you provide for the same offence and a sentence for economic crime, fine and punishment for criminal punishment, prison sentence. But that's what I expected. I wish the building minister could have come out for this pay phone in the last six months and said what you've built so far. That would be the right move. Then I could trust the minister to say - so far we've built that and that, and we want to stop building that and that. This and this can be regulated in detail by urban plans, and this and this will be destroyed. It would be an acceptable story for a new government, and perhaps for this large number of citizens who are not affected by this topic, who would like the state to be regulated legally and especially this area where the word "wild construction" suggests that many did not pay attention to living in a country where regulations should be respected. So this fine is up to 450,000 dinars. I don't know how she's even in line with the Commercial Crimes Act, but I think the amendment should be accepted. This would prove that you have a desire to regulate this area, and not regulate yourself with four criminal laws, but with the whole new law, but unfortunately we have a government that always gives us a bill of law from a few members and says, you'll get a full law by the new year. God forbid if all those laws that various ministers promised from this pay phone, put in the assembly procedure until the new year, we'll be buried, we won't have time to replace you from the great work you've been doing on the laws you've promised us. I urge you to try to write laws that will allow us to work and create, not laws that will allow the authorities to destroy and devastate. Once again, I suggest you move to tear down what was magnificently built by people close to both the former and the present regime. When you convince me that you're capable of spending these objects, when you convince me that you can take them down, when you convince me that these wild builders don't have police protection, then you'll convince me that you've created both a legal and orderly state. The easiest thing to do with an intervention brigade is to fly into a wild settlement where poor people live, where feces are poured out on the street and say, 'cause you don't have permission, we'll stop the water that's attached so you don't create environmental problems, so you don't pour any more into the street. The best way to deal with the poor is to make the most of it, and you've proven that you're capable of it. I'm telling you, deal with the big ones, they were created during another government, I don't see any hair missing from their heads during your new government. All this rest, this is all a deal with those who may even dared to vote for someone else and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11495	Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 35, against 112, two abstentions, 10 did not vote, out of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 38, against 108, the abstention of four, did not vote 10, out of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment made a statement on these three amendments. Does anyone else want a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 36, against 106, the abstention of four, was not voted 17, out of a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zivko Selakovic. The government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zivko Selaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11496	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have given an amendment to article 7, and I hope, a little bit, to make a joke, that you should still accept something. To Article 7. The bill, I have submitted amendments so that Article 57 of the Law changes attitude 1 and reads: "A responsible official in the competent authority of the administration will be punished (the criminal part of the law) for up to three years". I'd like to explain this a little bit. If we wanted to seduce some order in lawless construction, the law was passed and adopted in principle, the remaining that the lawless builder, whether physically or legally, could be punished up to three years in prison. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, understand me, this is what I'm saying on behalf of the sea of the people, because this is about the next one -- the fine of 1,000 to 10,000 dinars is much less than when the old law came into force. I was in these benches back then. Then there were about 1,000 dinars, but there was almost a dinar brand. So now there's a three-fold smaller amount to punish a responsible person for. I claim that if the works performers, or even the contractor, the Blackwaterer who comes to work for money, is found on the site, can be punished by prison. Why not be a responsible person in the congregation of the municipality, or a competent authority issuing an unlicensed document to legalize or obtain any authorisation. (President: I ask the People's Messengers to listen to each other. Mr. Selakovic, I'm sorry, but there's too much noise. People's MPs who want to hear from you can't hear you from their colleagues. I ask the messengers to pay attention to each other. If anyone won't listen to me, at least let them keep quiet and make it possible for others. Maybe someone will. I'm saying that the person who issues certain papers, popularly speaking, all the way to the building permit, if they enable illegal construction, then it should, in my opinion, be much more punished for making it possible. If it hadn't issued such a document, surely he wouldn't have dared to build it. If it's not accepted, I come back to that idea that I said in my discussion when the law was in principle, I have a feeling that this member should be legally legalized, but that person who gives the legalization license doesn't have a great sanction, he doesn't go to jail, but he's got 300 marks to swallow a dumpling and issue such a permit for such an object. If we do not accept that there are sanctions against the person who makes it possible to build it, because it has already been applied to another member, who says: "The person responsible will be punished by a prison of up to three years, which is issuing a license to join a particular facility. "What can't stand there now is a face that issues a building permit. I was told in response that it was intended by law, criminally deleveraging, which people in such places make. Then when it was not too much to say for these persons who issued the licenses to get a prison, it would not be a waste to stand for a person who provided such an unwritten document, which would legalize an incorrect object.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11497	Anyone else want a word? MP Tomislav Nikolic, representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11498	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this amendment should be accepted, although it stands aside from what the law should look like. But in order for the law to be quite uniform, for the members of the law to look like one another, for the citizens who commit the offences to be equal in the qualification of the act, I think we should accept this amendment. In a procedure where something is done illegally, many faces take part. You've predicted here that whoever approaches the works as an investor and those who approach the works as a performer, you've also provided responsibility for the one who joins the facility that doesn't have a building permit. And now the question arises, why is a privileged municipal official who issues a building permit to a person who has not provided all the necessary conditions for the issue of a building permit. It's a major offense. The issue of a building permit behind it is that there is no more punishment for him who builds, nor for him who joins, nor for him who invests. So there are now suddenly four types of perpetrators on one object. The fourth in his criminal act to undo the crimes of the previous three, issue a building permit without all the necessary and necessary conditions, you say it's a crime, and I think it's a crime, and suddenly all three of the predecessors in this chain are amnesty. Now there's a building permit -- they can build, they can build, they can join, and the facility didn't deserve it under the Building of Objects Act. I think you should have followed the logic, but you should have a secretary for legislation there. That's what this government doesn't have. You have a nepotism for someone's wife who deals with this business. You should have a good expert and a good lawyer. Mrs. Comic, I have a question for you. We've sent you written requests for the establishment of a survey board. There is the will of the congregation's majority to form a committee of inquiry. This session or today's day is coming to an end. I'm interested in the fate of that plot. It wouldn't be right if you felt him up till half past seven and met only in October or possibly at another extraordinary session. And if there are any formal reasons that prevent you from putting it on, tell us to eventually remove some formalities. If these are the signatures, the MPs who said this morning that they wanted the survey committee formed, I assume they would have signed for the request in order to ensure its full legality and legitimacy. I think you owe us an answer by 5:30, or it'll be another big con, like one of the ones you've been exposing us to in the last few months, when you didn't know it either, or you would, so you didn't make it. So, I'm asking you, what are we going to do about the committee of inquiry that needs to determine...? Here's Bane Ivkovic with his hands. Should I mention Banet Ivkovic? For the replica, what, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11499	I'd like to ask you to sit on the parliamentary bench while I give an explanation to the MP. We'll discuss whether or not you'll be entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11500	I'm looking for a replica of you and Mr. Nikolic. (Tomislav Nikolic: I would rather you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11501	I would ask MP Branislav Ivkovic, regardless of the personal position he has on me, to respect the institution of the chairman of the National Assembly. All other remarks, I am in the mood for both the public and any other place to discuss remarks, but I would ask that you respect the institution of the chairman in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11502	He told me to slap my hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11503	National MP Tomislav Nikolic asked for an explanation of the procedure for the polling committee. I am absolutely sure that you know very well what procedure this proposal must go through and how the survey committee is formed. We had this debate with the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it will not be formed in the procedure and according to the Rules of Procedure, it will be formed of course because there is general will of the majority to form, even if we have to schedule a special session of the Assembly with that one point of the agenda. You know very well the procedure better than I do, given the lengthy internship in the National Assembly. National MP Branislav Ivkovic asked for a replica. The foundation of the People's Parliament's replica. The MP should tell me the basis of the replica to get the word. Let me see if we have a misunderstanding or an agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11504	Replication to you and Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11505	The basis of the replica to Mr. Nikolic?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11506	Well, he told me to slap my hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11507	MP Tomislav Nikolic, what did he do to you? You have no basis for a replica in the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic. Your name is mentioned, the hand-waving of Mr Nikolic's presentation referred to another MP, visually identified on the left, but not in your ranks. This is what the MP now says from the bench and violates the Rules of Procedure. Please, you have no basis for replication. You don't have the basis for a replica of me either. Please respect the chairman's decision, there is no basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11508	You have very profiled attitudes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11509	The basis for the replica was also given by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11510	By amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11511	Does anyone else want a word from the authorised participants in the debate? The word has been given by MP Branislav Ivkovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11512	I must admit that it is not easy for a man to remain a gentleman in this atmosphere who is in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And especially in situations like this I've been in before, because a man feels like a student. I did tell the Vice President of the Assembly, acting as President of the Assembly, Vice President, Mrs. Komic, the teacher's word, don't be angry, I really understand it, and I have four children like you and you do have express pedagogical tendencies. As for the amendment, I would like to point out that the SPS supports the amendment we are discussing. At the same time, I would like to say that we support the request for the establishment of a polling committee, and we believe that in Serbia it must be equal treatment for all victims in these areas: both the victims of the arms of the Shiptarsh terrorists, and the victims of the victims of the hands of the Serb but also the victims of NATO aggressors. Unfortunately, the media in Serbia forgets the victims of Cypriot terrorists, forgets the victims of NATO aggressors, and exclusively commits public reparations to victims, possibly, of the Serbian hand, in order to prepare further actions to sell, surrender or betray certain Serbian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11513	National MP Branislav Ivkovic is fully aware that this was violated by the Rules of Procedure because there was no talk about the content of the amendments. He broke his speech on the subject, a member of the Rules of Procedure who obliges all the MPs to speak on the subject. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting Zivko Selakovic's amendment to the vote. For 47, against 109 abstentions, there were no votes, no votes, of a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Dragan Colic, Natasa Jovanovic and Veroljub Arsic. The Government, the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Natasa Jovanovic, as the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11514	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment requires that in Article 7 in a fine, the words of up to 10,000 dinars be replaced by the words of 10 to 30,000 dinars. Why I ask that fines be increased for the offence of the responsible official in the competent authority, if he commits the following offence: one, verify the technical documentation which has been made against the urban permit; two, issue a building permit contrary to the regulations; three, issue a valid licence against the regulations. It is clear to all of us and enough words during the principle debate, and by amendments, that the procedure for obtaining a building permit is quite complicated in the authorities of local self-government and it is as it is. All it takes to get someone started on legal construction, that's what they're looking for everywhere in the world. The question arises, how effective local self-government authorities are and how responsible those who issue these permits are because of possible bribery and corruption. We have had a bitter experience with municipalities and cities since 1996, in which the Coalition "Together" was in power, long since disintegrated, and in whose work the DS participated. It is clear to us that not all municipal officials, all those working on issuing these necessary permits, are corrupt. First of all, I think the greatest responsibility to the Secretary of the municipal administration, who again, under the pressure of the executive, is to do such things. Of course, there are many examples in favour of this claim that bribery and corruption have greatly taken hold of you, and I will remind you of what Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic spoke about, in the first day of the debate on this law, and that is an indisputable fact that for a home number in Zemun you need to give a bribe of 1,000 marks, and you can imagine that now it will go with the collection of all these permits, which are needed to start legal building of the facility. Most often, those who built large buildings, type P+6, or 7, are those who did not illegally start construction, they obtained these permits, but paid for it, or were close to local oligarchy. We're going to have that now, and I'm fully convinced of that, so I think it's necessary for these penalties to increase. On the other hand, I am surprised at why the legislator and this member of the law did not foresee that criminal sanctions were carried out, in addition to this offence, because your conduct has already become a law-to-law criminal responsibility for individual violations of the law, and this is how law-making will make you a complete mess and you will not lead to what is necessary and what we are principled to advocate, which is that criminal law and norms are codified. Thank you. As the day of today's session approaches, I would also like to remind you, and above all our public, that tomorrow's patriotic rally is at 18 o'clock in the Republic Square. I urge all citizens to join us in what will be our demands and our criticism of the current DOS government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11515	Anyone else want a word? There is a word from MP Dragan Cholic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11516	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of the noise in the O.R., I didn't hear Natasha Jovanovic calling for a rally. I think tomorrow, in the square of the Republic at 18 o'clock, the rally of patriotic parties, even with regard to this law, anything that is controversial, will be clarified in that rally. All it takes is as many people as it takes to get here. It'll all be clear. The level of penalties must be so measured as to ensure the purpose of the punishment, given the widespread occurrence of abuse of the official position and corruption in the authorities of the administration. By adopting this law, a large number of citizens will face criminal sanctions. Whether they will come under criminal sanctions, all those who are rich in abuse of official office, receive bribes, swim in corruption, and get rich at the expense of the unfortunate people, who have solved their most difficult life-form by building objects, houses, because they were forced to do so both by the country's bad moves and the arrogance of local powers in local self-government. My experience so far tells me that the DOS majority has never wanted to hear the voice of reason, the adoption of amendments to the opposition MPs is foreign to you. It is in vain to speak of the beauty of a mountain spring of buffalo who cannot drink until the water is clouded. You have clouded the water so much in Serbia, that the smelly bottom of the smelt has risen and reached the authorities. Once the residue falls to the bottom again, where it belongs, then the citizens of Serbia will be better off.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11517	There is a word from MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11518	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since we are nearing the end of the session, and there are about a dozen amendments left, and since it would be really incorrect, for example, for God's sakes, to work tomorrow, and then we stay, so we don't get to that rally, I think it would be much more effective, better and more significant to finish this job today, because that's definitely what we're doing with this session and work, so I suggest we extend the work of today's session to the end of the agenda, or until all the amendments that have been tabled by the legislators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11519	Since a proposal based on article 79 on working time, the National Assembly must be declared, I ask the MPs to make a statement on the proposal of MP Aleksandr Radosavljevic. For 109 against one, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29, out of a total of 140 MPs. There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11520	Well, tell me now what makes you different from the previous dictatorial and discriminatory authorities? In respect of the Rules of Procedure, you are no different. Article 79. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia reads: "The session of the National Assembly shall be held between 10 and 19.30 hours, with an interruption of one hour and 30 minutes, unless the National Assembly decides exclusively for certain days differently. The decision is taken as a rule at the beginning of the working day." You do what you want, I just want to save my honor, and you do what you want. You, under article 79, had the opportunity to extend this session today, and such a proposal was made this morning, at the beginning of working hours. That decision has not been made. Since that decision has not been made, we cannot continue today. Of course, you can, as you once did 21, by 23, by 24, you can do whatever you want, but the Rules of Procedure should be respected. We were supposed to be working till 7:30 today, and then we're supposed to continue tomorrow. And since you didn't even have a quorum to vote on this decision, because in the votes you count and some who didn't vote, although according to the Rules of Procedure there's only - for, against and abstention, you had a total of 107 seems to me in the O.R., and those who didn't vote, these people weren't even in the O.R. Show me one in an O.R. that's not interested -- whether to work longer or not, which isn't -- yes, or -- versus, or at least keep it. Show one in the hall that didn't vote, because there's no attitude. So I ask you no longer to violate the Rules of Procedure, but to work in the Rules of Procedure, to make decisions in time, not to provoke the opposition, because this session could take much longer than you can handle tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11521	National MP Tomislav Nikolic cited two inaccuracies in his remarks. One is that today was a matter of working hours, at the beginning of the day. No, it wasn't yesterday. I'm asking you to keep an eye on the statement on the pay phone. The second, as a rule, is the provision that has been interpreted here and allows the MP to propose a longer working time at this time. National MP Branislav Ivković - violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11522	Dear Mrs. Komic, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, directly on your part. In accordance with Article 95. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 1, which reads: "To a national MP who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker". Ambassador Tomislav Nikolic advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, asked for a word, you insisted on voting, and only after the final vote did you give him your word. That was a direct violation of the Rules of Procedure. The fact that you're violating the Rules of Procedure is a normal thing, since you're breaking the Constitution, you're making laws that you're forcing people to pay bribes to your local self-government, then the violation of the Rules of Procedure comes like that, by the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11523	Does the MP want us to make a statement about the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman? Yeah. I ask the National Assembly to plead. For 31, against 106, there were no abstentions, 19 did not vote, out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken. National MP Tomislav Nikolic - according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11524	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please determine the quorum for holding the session. - Galama. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11525	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. Let us determine the quorum, please insert identification cards into the parliamentary units (except that MP Tomislav Nikolic is not present in the hall). Whether the MPs present in the hall, who violate Article 113, want to be better than 120: MP Lazar Marjanski 121, Veroljub Arsic 122, Natasa Jovanovic 123, Tomislav Nikolic 125 and MP (Gordana Pop-Lazic, from the scene, is looking for a word). I'm sorry, the MP cannot get a word after breaking the Rules of Procedure at a time when we do not have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We counted 125. We're still counting. If I should count further, MP Dragan Todorovic 123, Slobodan Pavlovic 124, Đura Lazić 125, MP... 126. I find that by the presence of a quorum in the hall for the work of the National Assembly and that the MPs present in the hall have violated the Rules of Procedure under Rule 113 without putting cards into MPs' units. There is a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, present in the hall - a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11526	Mrs. Komic, I am rightly expressing my suspicion of the electronic system that has shown that we have a quorum for work and, in accordance with Article 80(5), I request the count of the MPs. And why do I say rightly, because yesterday we interrupted the session because of the lack of quorum (galls in the O.R.).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11527	I ask the MPs not to comment. After the pay phone is the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, please listen to us and act on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11528	I hope you will establish order in the Assembly. I said today that I feel more and more like a train station here, which is because of the atmosphere and behaviour of the MPs, that and because of your way of running the session. But let me remind you that yesterday we interrupted the session due to a lack of quorum, and today there are a list of 46 DOS MPs who couldn't lift their afternoon work logs, which means there were 130 MPs, allegedly, in the O.R. And we all know there weren't so many. So, people's cards are constantly being inserted in order to secure the quorum, and you've never once said the measure provided for in Article 113(2).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-12-0.u11529	At the request of the MP, and in order to express doubt that there is a quorum, I ask the Assembly to count the MPs. There are 112 MPs present in the O.R. right now. I'm setting a 15-minute break. [[After a break - 19.50 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue the session after the break. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum to continue the session. I'm scheduled to resume this session for Monday 16 July 2001 at 10.00 hours.
