ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5859	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5860	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5861	Mr. President, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure - Article 93, paragraph 1, and in connection with yesterday's session. Article 93(1) determines that in the event of a quorum absence, a break shall be made until the quorum has been reached. It was missed yesterday. I am using this opportunity to protest the arguments given for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Playing the game is an important thing for most people, but it can't be an excuse for a absence from the Assembly. I think we should follow procedure. I like games myself, much better watching basketball than football, but there are even more important private and party, and business things that we need to do. It is not good for the conduct of this session of the Assembly and to mention such reasoning. I'm afraid the citizens won't have the patience to accept and understand this kind of interruption and this kind of leadership. I think the essence of this Rules of Procedure that we've brought is respect for the procedure. This way of disrespecting the procedures and reasoning that are given in this regard does not correspond to the seriousness of the situation facing which Serbia is and the seriousness of the law that we should bring here. There's not enough time, and I don't think we should do it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5862	You remember your colleague that the session was scheduled at 3:30 p.m., that we waited until 4:00 p.m. If that's not a break, enough to put together a number of MPs, then I don't know what it is. I didn't have the opportunity because of the lack of quorum to propose to the Assembly to make a decision to interrupt the session. There was no quorum, so a decision without a quorum would not be possible. I've set a break at that moment, and it seems to me with the agreement of the MPs who were in the O.R.: I asked if they had any opposite opinions. I've decided by today at 10.00 hours. So I didn't give any explanation, nor did I comment. I just said I could assume the reasons for the lack of quorum. I don't know what you assumed, but I didn't say what I assumed. So the procedure is respected. The break was practically 15.30 to 1600 hours, because we were waiting for a sufficient number of MPs to be gathered. I, as president, can't make a quorum. No matter how hard I am, I can't count as a larger number of MPs. Here you go, if it's not a replica. We're not having a discussion about this in the Rules of Procedure, but I'm giving you an explanation, and you can only say if you're satisfied with the explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5863	I didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5864	I'm putting it to a vote, I don't know what. The suggestion that he's... And what member is that?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5865	Article 93(1) I'm sorry, I have to give a new explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5866	New? If it's new, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5867	Mr. President, I have to say that you didn't take a break yesterday, but the quorum was gradually extended, so the quorum was not established until 4:00 p.m. So, half an hour after the scheduled time. However, it is not a certain break until the quorum has been fulfilled, but the session has been interrupted. I think it's a break-up if the session doesn't continue during the day. It's for me to interrupt the session. You might think it's a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5868	I can take whatever I want, but the Rules of Procedure say that only the Assembly makes a decision to interrupt the session. Since the assembly hasn't decided to interrupt the session, so can you, and I can consider it any way you want, but the session isn't interrupted. Simply because of the lack of quorum is continued at the moment when the quorum is present at 10.00 today. There was no decision to interrupt the session. She didn't continue to work, due to lack of quorum. That's what the Rules of Procedure says. I can't write a new Rules of Procedure right now. Are you asking me to put it to a vote? No, I don't. Thank you. I would like to inform you of the resignation of MP Radivoj Lazarevic. You have received the resignation of MP Radivoj Lazarevic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the consideration of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88(2) and Article 2(2) and Article 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the mandate of MP Radivoj Lazarevic on the day of his resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office ended before the election of MP Radivoj Lazarevic, elected by the Democratic Opposition of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the completion of the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable it to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP to complete the vacant parliamentary seat at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Committee, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5), would be approved. The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Golub Rajic, elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia's Electoral List -- Slobodan Milosevic. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Golub Rajic. If he's here, I congratulate the People's MP on the election. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Pensions and INVALID Security (specificity) I am opening a review of the Bill's proposal, in particular. National MPs Rajko Baralic and Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 1st amendment in the same text. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5869	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as well as journalists, have already been said quite a bit in the principle debate (Glass from Hall: Theme. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5870	I'm asking you not to start making trouble from early morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5871	You from a party that changed your name don't throw it away. I believe, regardless of the arguments offered, that taxation of regress and a warm meal at the moment is not good and that it will bring certain consequences to both workers and employers. Workers, because one number of employers will not objectively be able to pay each other, and employers, because in this way in front of their workers - therefore, in front of those who perform jobs for their account and interest - will no longer be able to service their financial obligations to the level that was previously achieved. I also think the dilemma is removed whether the principle of reckoning is gross and net, better or worse. I believe that the principle of gross should be applied, only here the proposings need to reach agreement on what is gross. Since we had three different interpretations yesterday, I suggest that the representatives of the government, the legislators of this law, organise a press conference and explain to the citizens of Serbia what this principle means, and I do not think that our respected Ms. Matkovic, the minister, needs any soufflers. She was the only one able to explain what this principle meant. Everyone else who tried, from her environment, ruined that thing. I suggest that this amendment be accepted, although I think that all the effort shown here in front of us has gone towards the goal of us Europeanising ourselves, which in itself is not ugly, but until it really happens and if it does, there will be a real consequence. A number of people, believe me, will be denied this precious financial contribution within one month. I have nothing more to add to this relationship. I ask fellow Members of Parliament to accept the amendment I have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5872	Mr. Zivanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5873	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this morning before this assembly session began, I thought that Mr. Jovanovic would still come out for this pay phone to apologize to all those whom he gave yesterday, who, according to his opinion, did not behave well. However, it seems to me that at half past four we were all here, waiting for his, from his party, to which he was head of the parliamentary group, to start working, but it wasn't worth it. I still think that after this discussion, Mr Jovanovic will come out, if nothing else, at least give his people a friendly reproof that they will conduct themselves in the future towards the work and order of this parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the personal income that employers pay to employees each month, should now be included in gross earnings and form the basis for paying taxes and contributions: compensation for a warm meal, regression and field allowance. This fee for a field supplement serves, as many have said for this speaker, to resuscitate the family budget, to feed, to educate children, to dress, to keep their lives bare. That fee constitutes a minimum of the right to be paid to employees for working days. Regres used to serve recreational workers, on behalf of the cost of vacations. Today, however, the item has also become the main one for maintaining the citizens' standard of living. First, what usually workers get this supplement suddenly and get a lot more than their own income. And the workers who are on the ground. The employer is also obliged to provide compensation for increasing the costs on the ground: either provide accommodation and nutrition, or pay the compensation that in general covers the costs that employees have on the ground. So, like everyone who's been out for this pay phone before, I don't think these supplements should be allowed to go into gross earnings, because in some ways, employers allow employees to maintain their standard of living. In the present time, when no company works or works with reduced capacity in the manufacturing sphere, since earning workers is not paid by collective agreements, and somewhere they are not paid at all, where the hot meal and the costs of transport and the regress are the only receipts, taxing that warm meal and regress, would be fatal to the company, as it would make it worse for the company to have a difficult material and social situation of workers anyway. That is why I believe that this member should be deleted until the Government improves the living standards of workers with its own measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5874	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5875	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come out, of course, to try to influence you to accept this amendment of the People's MPs Srboljub Živanovic and Rajko Baralic, with one explanation, with one fence. First of all, we said it wouldn't be bad to accept the principle of gross earnings, but not the way the representatives of the government explained it yesterday, because they obviously confused things. They mixed the gross salary from the earlier period with what it means to be gross profit today. In fact, they explained to us that gross earnings today represent all receipts of workers plus taxes and contributions, what goes to the state. That's what used to be a gross salary. What today represents gross earnings is something else entirely. It represents all receipts of workers, and that's a huge difference compared to what you were saying yesterday. That's why you can't count on basics and profit the way you said yesterday, that it's actually gross earnings, because it's no longer gross earnings. In the former system and under former laws, this represented what can be called gross wages. That's why, speaking of this amendment, I want to point out the fact that it would be a good idea to accept it, because this article would essentially fail the whole law, which is bad. We think that this way we would be able to partially protect both workers and employers. So, as a representative of the opposition political party, I say it is our political interest, but not the political interest of the opposition as a whole, but it also seems to me to be the political interest of our entire people, and of those who represent employers, and of those who represent workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5876	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 56, against 126 abstentions, there were no three, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the bearer want a word? He wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5877	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is similar to the amendment I submitted to the Employment and Rights Act. It is that there is a legal discrepancy between the Law on public income and expenditure and the Law on pension and disability insurance. Namely, what's this about? In the Law on Public Revenue and Expenditure, we have made a small change in this sense that consent to the Institute's financial plan is given by the Assembly, and in the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, the existing one, says that consent is given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Here is the question, when it comes to the financial plan, who will now give consent. At this point, we still don't have the PIO Fund's financial plan, and we know that the pensions of both the independent and the farmers and the employees are late. If all of this is considered, we don't know how much this year, according to that financial plan, pensions will be paid. I mean, here's the May moon, and there's no financial plan. There is no work report for 2000, and according to the Law on Public Revenue and Expension, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should give a report on the work and on the financial plan. Under the existing provisions of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, the government gives consent to these reports and plans. In the government's explanation, why no amendment is accepted, it says it will be passed in subsequent amendments to the law. The first question arises when the next amendments to the PIO law will take place. We have a promise from the Ministry that it will come very soon. But there's already half a May. And are we going to get a work report and a financial plan maybe in June or July of the month, or I don't know when. Until these new amendments or new laws are adopted, I don't know what the ministry is predicting, and since this is a typical legal issue, I see no reason why this amendment would not be accepted in such a way that these changes are subject to the PIO Fund's obligation to submit a report on the work for 2000 and the financial plan, in accordance with the Law on Public Revenue and Costs, to the Republic Assembly for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5878	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? If not, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 123, a abstentioned one, was not voted by three, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The proposal to add a new member after article 1, as an amendment was submitted by MP Petar Petrovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? If not, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 118, one was abstentioned, no vote was 10, and a total of 182 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Guduric. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5879	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this speaker has already been quite said about this law. Also, to prescribe the highest basis for payment of contributions, it was said that it should have been avoided because, among other things, the deficit given in the explanation would have been filled in. It is possible that in the way it is prescribed, there will not be enough money for the PIO, so the missing funds will be provided in the budget. It is once a violation of the principle that those who have more and more give, not that those who have less, give more. I think that's how you should accept it. Since I have so far used only those rights given to other MPs, especially given to myself by Mr Ceda Jovanovic, I will only say two sentences that are not related to this point. Since counterpart Jovanovic read to us yesterday the passages from a material called "The First 100 Days of Democratic Authority", signed by the Democratic Party of Serbia and Prime Minister Djindjic, in the chapter on Transport and Connections, are said to be -- secure, I stress that "the funds provided by the European Union for the cleaning of the Danube trough have been secured, so that it becomes a float and construction of bridges that have been destroyed during the bombing". I, as a Beocini resident, whose relationship is with the Novi Sad...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5880	Where you found Mr. Guduric, you found Beocin in Article 2. The law?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5881	Where Mr. Ceda Jovanovic also found him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5882	That was yesterday, Mr. Gooduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5883	And yesterday we talked about the same point as today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5884	Yesterday was in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5885	It's in principle today. This wasn't the same agenda point, so you didn't interrupt Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5886	I didn't run the session at that moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5887	No matter who ran it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5888	All right, come on, at least about Beocino very briefly, so let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5889	I'm not gonna spend a lot of time, I never spend it, there's no need today. So I wish it were true. But the truth is what Mr. Borislav Novakovic, the Mayor of Novi Sad said on Saturday about the New Sad Dnevnik and Bernard Sheneva, who is in that European Commission: that there is no money to clean up the Danube, there is no yellow bank to make bridges, but to come from European countries, Mr. bankers who offer favourable loans, to build ourselves a bridge. Let's have at least a little more than that Mr. Hombah, who turned out to be a bigger Serb than we are, so let's let those who took down bridges make them, and we or you from DOS can't tell them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5890	You don't want to talk about the amendment? If no one ever answers about bridges, or amendments, for a word, then I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 54, against 114 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, and a total of 179 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5891	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for those who have no amendments in front of them or who find it difficult to deal with in particular, this amendment says that in Law No. 3,033 is replaced by 1,500, 4.427 is replaced by 2,200, number 5,262 is replaced by 2,600, number 6,635 is replaced by 3,300, number 7,145 is replaced by 3,600, number 9,409 is replaced by 4,700, number 10,500 is replaced by 5,300 and number 12,724 is replaced by 5,400. So, with this amendment, we wanted, as a parliamentary group and Tomislav Nikolic as a national MP, to influence the government of the Republic of Serbia to reduce this basis for calculating insurance contributions, to reduce and because of what I was just talking about, because of a lack of understanding in the difference between what was once called gross wages, and today it's called gross earnings. I think this would be something that's reasonable. We did not go in a demagogue formula to what is once or what remains in a positive law, meaning those figures, but what today represents reality in the economic life of Serbia, and it seems to me that it would be perfectly understandable and completely normal for MPs, not only of the opposition in the National Assembly, but MPs of the majority in this Parliament to accept it. It seems to me that if this amendment of the Serbian Radical Party's People's MP were to be accepted, we would significantly free the employers. But aside from the significant release of employers, we would do a lot for workers, because a lot of them will be fired in this way, because employers won't be able to handle paying this kind of taxes and contributions. This would protect their position, and they would stay on their jobs, and even for the state, it would be better, because in the mass of income, and even with lower bases, there would be more money for the state register than it would be in this way. It seems very rational, perfectly natural, completely understandable to me, and I hope that the parliamentary majority of this amendment will accept. Of course, someone can say again that we're obstructing, that they can say anything again. But if you're leading this kind of chase as you are leading against Mr. Obradovic, against your own, I'm not surprised what you're doing against us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5892	The word is made by Minister Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5893	Since there are more amendments relating to the absolute amount of base, I would like to say only this time that most of these amendments suggest that these bases in gross amount be less than they are now valid bases in the net amount. Since those who do not have the Fund's latest decision, which concerns revaluation, I would only read once more what are valid net bases to see that they are more than what is proposed in this and those amendments that apply to this. So now these basics, I'm reading at a qualification level of 1,705, 2,639, 3.137, 3,956, 4.260, 5,609, 6,266 and 7,586. So, as much as we argue about the height of the base, there's no basis for them to be lower by gross than they are for the net worth today. Once again, let me just say that you've already adopted the basics in the previous Labour Act and that the way of social security is unique.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5894	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 53, against 116 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Rada Bajic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5895	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, the honourable MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 too to these famous foundations that extend in this last set of laws for the reasons we have already said here for a few times, but it is true, that these foundations, although Mrs. Minister has now said the latest information here on net personal incomes by professional supplies, for many businesses are high and will bring them into a very unfavourable economic position. When I submitted the amendment, I may have cut a little sharper when I said that instead of 3,033 I should put 1,000, 4.427 put 1,500, and then 12,724 with 5,500. When I saw the data that I took out for January the month that in certain municipalities the averages were: Bela Palanka 436 dinars, White Church 1.291 dinars, net talk, Vrbas 4.459, Dimitrovgrad 483 dinars, Žitište 1,911 dinars, Ivanica 1,602 dinars, so in many places businesses simply cannot support this base to pay. We bring them twice into an unfavourable position. The first thing they won't be able to pay their personal income and we'll bring them to court sanctions to pay their fines or, if they don't pay their personal income, they're due until the 30th of the month to pay their contributions on the basis they're given. And that's why they're also waiting for a very severe penalty from 10,000 to 200,000 if they don't pay off, and you can see that some companies simply can't raise money not for wages and contributions, but they can practically very hard to collect. Now, is it in the interest of these companies to stop working, to take away their actions and not to perform them from 30 to 90 days or to find some compromise to divide what they have between the state and workers, not to pay the state or provide, protect the state, and workers however you can provide or do not provide them at all. I think you've figured out from these examples that I've cited, and you can all take it from the informant and just read it. I don't have the last data, but if between 3,790, as much as the average personal income in Serbia was then and now 4.270, the increase of 14%, so that we take the aproximatively and 14% increase every net personal income per municipality, you will see that many companies will not be able to pay for this. As far as the basics are concerned, I did resolve the issue of basics with Mrs. Minister yesterday, and we understood each other, but the argument was disastrous in the pension and disability insurance law. When you say that or when you explain it to someone and tell someone the basics, where they normally go in on a gross principle right now: a hot meal, a 12-regress, because a regression doesn't pay off every month, and if they pay it off and how much they pay it off, and a field supplement that has it. There, in the reasoning of the law, it says, if you have read, and I believe that most should read: given the fact that there is an increase in the basis for the calculation and payment of the contribution (because it includes the tax as well as those other personal incomes). So, they just said in tax reasons. Yesterday I and Madam Minister resolved that this is where the contributions came in. That should have been said by the previous minister when his law was on the agenda, so to say - on a net basis, which was being calculated, they added gross 1 and gross 2. This student in high school or one who worked for a month in accounting, knows how to get gross 1 and gross 2, and finally gross personal income, i.e. for taxes and contributions, they took 40% of it and that's 3,033 for the lowest amount. We had to torture ourselves here or be prophets and ask how this legislator had imagined and how he had reached 3,033 dinars. Under the law, I calculated it very easily and very easily. The math is pure, 2 + 2 = 4 for everyone, to basically add 1/12 regress, a warm meal of 900 dinars and 14% tax, and there's about 3,033 dinars. However, the previous minister and the previous law did not explain it. This one went with a criminal explanation, so we MPs were powerless to get the figures that we have here for the basis. But whatever it is, it's just with what I said, what the averages are in the municipalities, we're going to get the employers simply to the point where they won't be able to reconcile that obligation. (President): Please, time. President, I'm sorry, just one more sentence. He simply won't allow an employer. If his company closes, he'll fire the workers. He just doesn't want to suffer a loss based on it. Isn't it better to have five or ten employees, to find some compromise to pay both the state and the workers, than to lock him up and fire the workers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5896	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word National MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5897	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if we have removed the dilemmas that followed our work on the proposed law, it is good, and if we do not think there is a willingness on our side to do so. There's one more thing I'd like to say is that by insisting on paying the contributions, the state is not protecting itself. The state is protecting the workers. The state isn't trying in such a way to provide funds that will then spend on something that is in itself imaginary, which is in the fog. The state took the step that was required to take the view that before paying the tax, the company, or the employer, is obliged to pay the contributions. That it's his priority. It also fulfils a certain social duty towards its worker, and the state is obliged in such a way that it treats employees and I think you just have to understand, and I believe you understand, that in this way we do not provide funding for the state but for a pension fund that is empty and a pension fund from which the funds are directed to pensioners, not a state apparatus, not to the judiciary, not to the police, not to the military, but only to the pensioners, since these funds must be spent on purpose and so they will certainly be in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5898	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 56, against 117 abstentions, there were no five votes, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5899	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, relying on the previous laws that have been passed and on the presentation of a resolute minister, who has today explained part of the law, there is no legal logic that norms under this law can be identified with a norm adopted in the previous law. So the question is, why are we going to have these standards, why are these laws going to provide for the same basics? Why is that? Why isn't that meant by one law? I ask that as a question and if he can't, he can't. But I don't think there's any legal logic that this law can't diminish the basics. The essence of my amendment is calculated and focused on the reduction of the base because the worker will remain as much pay as possible, and on the other hand to enable the employer to better organise work in his firm, without narrowing down the space for employers and also not reducing and jeopardising acquired workers' rights under this foundation. That is why I have suggested that 50% of the base is reduced because there is a legitimate reason, at least at the moment where our country and our economy are located, and at the moment when our economy needs to go and when employers need to be able to take it, especially the private sector. I believe the new government is counting on a good part of production and employment to take over the private sector. That is why I point out and draw attention that it would be very useful for this amendment to be adopted, for a number of reasons, especially for those reasons. The events, ladies and gentlemen, in Social Democracy are very, very complex. We don't know exactly what's going on out there, but if you let me, you won't mind...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5900	Well, we won't let you. Please don't talk about it right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5901	I knew...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5902	Especially what's complicated, as you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5903	Just one sentence, referring to the government's work, and I think that time will show who's right and that's why this doesn't need to move in this direction and open up debates, which may yet have to bring accurate and true information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5904	This is one great principled attitude, Mr. Jojic. That was great. There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is similar and very similar to the previous amendments. I would not read exactly the amounts proposed that would change the legal basis, but I would comment on what is related to the amount of basics read by Minister Matkovic. If I'm wrong, and I think I've written down exactly what you've read, you'll correct me. You said it couldn't be lower if it was based on net and now compared to gross earnings. But it's nowhere lower. There is a huge difference, for example for the VIII degree of expertise, the difference between 7,586 dinars and 12,724 dinars. To put a hot meal in it, a regress, you can't get to this amount again. I'll tell you about taxes and contributions. As far as the basics are concerned, it wouldn't be a problem for such a base if it wasn't a total tax rate and a contribution of 96%, it was 128% earlier, but it was 50%, but since 96% of each employer has to pay exactly as much or almost exactly as you've predicted here. And something else where we're fundamentally different. No one says this contribution money will go to the development of pastries. But we think there's been a strategic mistake here, because the state, whether it goes to the fund or it's going to be paid budgetally, is essentially going to be taken care of. But when a government official says that the state protects workers, we think it's the other way around because with a small number of workers, these funds will be incomparably smaller. The state will get less money, whether it's like that special fund, or the state directly, it's totally whatever, it's going to get a lot less money. And we have a huge number of pensioners, a huge number of supported persons, so the state has to support through them. In this way, first of all, instead of encouraging a private initiative, we're going to force private workers to fire workers, to have as few registered as possible, except for that legal minimum, which they have to maintain. So, to have as few reported as possible, to pay the state as little as possible, and from such a small fund, it will be almost impossible to settle all needs of the state and all that are the duties of the state, or any of its parallel bodies, according to ours, at this point, to the most endangered citizens, etc. It seems to me that this is a bad way, and I think it's strategically wrong, I think that it should have happened differently, and that the idea should have been to pursue as much employment as possible, even if sometimes we were freeing people or giving some relief to pay taxes and contributions, so that in the mass of resources, in the mass of those who are employed, we could also provide greater financial resources in the fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5906	There's a minister's word, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5907	So again, another question that referred to the Law on Profits, both net and gross. When we say that we assume that 100 dinars are net wages and that taxes and contributions are another 100 dinars, you have 100 dinars of burden. It's a 100% load, to assume because of the argument that it is. If we say -- gross salary, that means 200 dinars. Then what are the loads? So the only difference between a gross salary and a gross salary is now that the gross salary counts for a warm meal, a regress, and all those fees, as defined in the Labour and Work Relations Act. I'm terribly sorry it wasn't discussed in the previous law, but that's the difference. So when you say that 12,000 dinars is the highest salary for the highest level of education, if I'm not mistaken, the base is 12,700. So as much as you paid your employee with the highest level of education, the state calculates that his gross earnings, what he costs you, 12,700, apply taxes and taxes and contributions to such calculations. Let's assume that the same thing as before, because the same calculation was gross, and the gross calculator was applied to the rates of taxes and contributions and you came to what you pay as an absolute amount for taxes and contributions. Let's assume they remain the same rates of taxes and contributions, as they are now under the applicable laws. If it's 12,700 dinars, as we say, so much gross costs, means everything when you pay, it costs you so much, then at the current rates of taxes and contributions, it's about 8,000 what you have to on behalf of taxes and contributions to make out, with that, if you don't have money, you don't pay taxes, because taxes are only paid on what is paid. So that's now the difference that creates a misunderstanding between net and gross. So he doesn't cost you 12,700, and we can really check that out easily in the pension fund, and wherever there's a need. It really is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5908	There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5909	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Matkovic explained or, in part, what should happen with taxes and contributions in the second part of her presentation. In the first part, she completely missed, because it is not true that the exact same thing that used to be called gross wages and what is today called gross earnings. It's not even like that. She was talking about gross wages, and today we don't have a gross salary. I ask those who don't understand each other, Mr. President, who haven't even read this matter, let alone understood it, that they don't interfere in these conversations unless they want to go out for a pay phone. So, in addition to receiving, the gross salary also included taxes and contributions. Gross earnings do not include taxes and contributions, but all employee benefits are entered. That's the difference between gross wages and gross earnings. That's what the point is, that's what I'm talking about. Check it out, that's for sure. But on the other hand, I am asking one particular question -- how many employees he is, and more specifically, is what Minister Matkovic says, when he says it was all passed by previous laws. That's right. This law only continues with what we have adopted in the Labour Relations Act, on employment, etc., but I am asking one specific question - whoever is employed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, let's see what his salary is, what is his gross earnings, and to tell us during the day (here, professional services can calculate) what are the employer's obligations, how much does the employer pay to the state, total? It's no problem to calculate and I'm telling you that on that one case, a very simple case, you'll see that we're absolutely right. It can't be 8,000 out of 12,700, but a total tax rate and a contribution of 96%, so it's certainly more than 8,000, though, from several different laws, but it's that much. Before it was 128%, or 123%, I can be corrected by those who knew something better, but calculate this and be assured that you will have to tell the MPs exactly what we have come up with from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5910	The word has a minister, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5911	Since, as far as I know, and I'm not saying that I know 100 percent, MPs have a slightly higher salary than the law provides for basics, then you calculate real, paid salaries, and that's what gross taxes and contributions are for. So that base doesn't matter anymore. And this is the newest law, which you adopted, where it says -- profits (so now there's only gross earnings) consist of earnings that an employee makes on the basis of the labour price, labour performance and time spent on work, wages, income supplements. Under two and three, an obligation paid by an employee on the basis of taxes and contributions to compulsory social security, in accordance with the law. It is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5912	If we have concluded the debate under this amendment, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 53 MPs, against 97, there were no abstentions, there were no 28 votes, a total of 178. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from the People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5913	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have submitted to Article 2. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance is in agreement with the same amendment that I have made under the previous law, and with the amendment that will be in the health insurance law, meaning in the next review. For those in this congregation who won't understand it, that it's in agreement, that it's in harmony, and I can say the same, it's in line. To make some others understand the same thing. What is it and what is causing many misunderstandings and why we are proposing that I as an SRS MP, as well as some other SRS MPs, including other opposition parties, reduce these bases for a number of reasons. What is inconclusive is that this expert government, making this bill, has made it extremely powerless, has made it a favourable target for this many disagreements from so many debates. In addition, Article 2(2) clearly states - the basis of Article 1 of this Article cannot be lower, to read once again to those who are also vaguely not, therefore, lower than the following amounts, and then go points 1 to 8. From points 1 to 8, as well as in the previous law, as well as in the next law, which will also be in this, is said to be points 1 to 8. These are amounts from 3,000 to 12,700. Also, we SRS MPs are trying to call to mind this expert government, these experts who may have passed a good law, which may not be appropriate today and is not for Serbia in 2001. He may be good when the DOS or the government also fulfils all that in pre-election promises to voters in Serbia. Only then, when you root out economic reforms, when you make total changes in fiscal policy, when you create an environment for reviving the economy, for the momentum of the economy, too, when the economy in Serbia comes to life to the extent that it is necessary for the population, and also for the economy itself, and then you also create conditions so that you can apply these basics. We've had apologetic statements here, and we can even consider them a cynical explanation that the state is protecting workers with these basics. Why do I think that's cynical? Every employer and every business subject, and you haven't been able to pay off these bases since October 5th, so to this day, you've also created conditions for economic swings. What, then, according to that or also consistent and consensually follows? The employer will be forced to fire the workers. That's how the state protects the workers. We talked about this speaker, and if not you from DOS, the public remembers it, and that will be remembered by voters in the first future elections as well, we said that these legal projects, which are now in the field of labour and social legislation, are neither protecting workers nor protecting employers. Probably, they'll only protect the ones you work for, which are after the adoption of the Privatisation Act by those who are strategic partners, who will appear as buyers of everything the state supports. Economic operators won't be able to even make a fiscal commitment to.... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... to serve, and they won't be able to pay these contributions either. In this way those strategic partners who come will buy all of this and thus your cynical statements that the state is protecting workers through this legal project. It makes employers say it can't be anything. What is it that is also wrong, and what I have anticipated with the amendment, so that a reduction can be made. You're limiting the social operators to pay more than they can and that they may create conditions for the higher pensions of those employees, insurance workers who work in good companies. You're simply saying in Section 3 that there can't be more than five times the amount. It can't be anymore. What's a good economy to do? He's gonna have to stick with that. What bad economy? They'll fire the workers. And the state, you say, is protecting the workers. Also, I suggested that the amendment cut...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5914	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5915	To reduce this base, because they are not suited to today's economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5916	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. Same here, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5917	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has accepted a parody of ours and a truly very good MP, Bozidar Vujic, at today's presentation of Gordana Komic, MP of the Democratic Party. I would like to say something about the amendment itself and what Minister Matkovic and I were just talking about. So, let's just get a few more things straight. I think it's also necessary for the upcoming laws, but also for the upcoming amendments. The basis is the amount to which the rates are applied. She can't contain in her accumulated taxes and contributions. It's the same as in customs, as in all other fiscal duties, when you have a basis for paying customs duties, it doesn't contain a calculated customs duty. We took it, and now we've got official data, and some of that data you gave us, so I'm free to calculate now. On the 7,500 if it's the basis for the highest technical preparation, so for the doctorate, and that's the eighth degree, where I think about 12,700, you'll correct me if I'm wrong, although I think I've remembered it well; at 7,586 dinars, when you're talking about gross earnings, about what we mean today under gross earnings, you can add a warm meal of 1,049 dinars, as well as a regress of 341 dinars. When you calculate all that, you will see that the base is again significantly higher than what you said, so on what used to be a net salary and the difference between what we used to call a net salary and what we call gross earnings today. I think it is understood that this amendment submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic is breaking the whole law, the whole concept. That's why I call on the MPs of the majority to accept this amendment, because that would make it a whole package of laws of the so-called law. Social labour legislation, which does not, in fact, solve key social and existential problems, bring down and the government would have to prepare better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5918	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 51, against 102 abstentions, there were no votes, 26, a total of 179 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5919	Article 2 of this Law lays down the basics on which insurance contributions are calculated and paid, and I am giving an amendment and I propose that they be reduced by 50% from the proposed ones, so that companies can pay normal earnings to employees. I'd like a minister or a representative of the government to listen to me, to answer me. The proposer of this law did not take into account the overall economic situation and the material capacity of the company, when he proposed such a basis for paying the profits on which taxes and contributions are charged. Yet, these laws were meant to be written or defended by someone with little more experience. I've had 27 years of work experience, I've worked for seven years, I've been an employer for 20 years. What you're saying, I can figure it out in three seconds, and it's not true. Mr. Chairman, will you start with the warnings of the ruling majority or give a break if you can't calm them down. I agree with the fact that economic operators who can pay employees for their economic growth and development and who are able to pay even higher profits than the amounts proposed in the Bill on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, pay also the prescribed rates of taxes and contributions. However, economic operators who do not have the opportunity to pay those amounts will not be in a position to pay even the earnings to employees, let alone taxes and contributions to those profits, although you have put taxes and contributions to the state, and then pay workers. I therefore believe that the amounts proposed per degree of education should be reduced by 50% in order for someone to pay for it. Gentlemen, you're making worse and worse laws because you're making them quick. Those who already existed were to be applied. You've abolished a good information law, so today your paper is full of affairs. In the other day, an extraprofit law was to be discussed. Mr. Obradovic worked on that problem. Now he's lobbying, I don't know if Djindjic, Mihajlovic or Batic is getting rid of him because he touched into their sphere of interest. What's the truth? Transparently tell me what it is. (A voice from the O.R.: About the amendment. You've heard the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5920	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 88, there were no abstentions, no 37 votes, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Milena Milosevic submitted and withdrew the amendment. I find the amendment has been withdrawn. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Bushetti.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5921	Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, my amendment refers to Article 2(4), which states: "The lowest basis established in the sense of Article 2(2) of this article is coordinated three months with the movement of earnings per employee in the Republic, based on the data of the Republic's statistical authority." My proposal is to: "The lowest base established in the sense of Article 2 position shall be coordinated three months with the movement of earnings per municipality employee, based on the data of the Republic's statistical authority, and the amount of the harmonised basis shall be published by the PIO staff fund". Why? I think this is a solution in my amendment more justly, because today in Serbia we have three-quarters of the municipalities where the salary per employee is below the republican average. Simply, the state should be selective when it comes to taking. After all, we declared that principle here at the beginning of this government's mandate, that the most we should take from those who have the most, and the least of those who have the least. Today in Serbia, even in the developed Vojvodina, we have an average wage per employee lower than the average in the Republic, in the Srem County and in the Western-Bačka County. When it comes to Serbia itself, it is 17 districts. Only 6 districts have higher averages than average republican earnings, and around two districts are at the level of that average salary. I don't think any particular obstacle should be represented by the already adopted Employment Act, because, simply, the rates, relating to this law, are very low. They are 0.9 plus 0.9, so profit and employer's burden, and these burdens are very low, unlike PIO and health insurance, where the rates are significantly higher. In retirement -- 16 plus 16, when it comes to health insurance -- 9.7 plus 9.7, so we would do a more just solution this way. I think this amendment is quite good and doesn't bring down the whole system. After all, we should always go with some solutions that are more advanced and that are more favourable both by employees and by companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5922	Is anyone answering for a word on this amendment? The word is made by Minister Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5923	That this is different from the other amendments, I'd just like to comment. The question is whether the state can behave completely differently when taking and giving. In fact, pensions don't differ depending on where anyone lives and on the community. So we can't just take care of one side and not take the other side.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5924	Mr. Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5925	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, members of the government, I think that this amendment by my colleague Bushetic should be accepted because he is the answer to the economic situation in which we are in the response to the economic opportunities of the employer. I don't mention the data in which our economy is located, from the point of view of liquidity or the degree of capacity utilisation. I think that my colleague Bushetic's amendment promotes one principle, if I may say justice, because it is fair that the lowest basics are harmonised on the average of earnings that exist in municipalities, compared to the solution that exists in the law, which provides for the harmonisation of earnings at the level of the Republic. I am saying this because in Serbia, of 189 towns and municipalities and of 29 districts, there are over 100 municipalities and over 17 districts where the average of earnings is lower. I think that's a valid reason for this proposal to be adopted. We heard from Madam Minister that this could not be accepted for reasons that pensions are not different. Pensions are different, because it objectively depends on what a man did during his working life, a degree of expertise, work, etc. One more thing, I think this amendment should be accepted for the reason he pleads to be more charged, in this case to take more money than those who have more and less than those who have less. I'm saying this because that principle was promoted by the parliamentary majority, by the government, when we talked about a set of tax laws. I don't think there's any reason why it shouldn't be applied now. From all that, I think this amendment by my colleague Bushetic should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5926	Here you go, Minister Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5927	Very briefly, the question arises how much more would we have to burden those who, conditionally speaking, are good and how much we would have to increase the rates of taxes and contributions, if possible. Otherwise, let's say once again that this is arranged in a unique way, partly centralised, I agree, but there are a number of arguments for decentralisation that would then take care of what you're saying, but in another way. So what we're going to do in a decentralisation situation, where the most developed regions or municipalities collect contributions and give them just for their pensioners, which, I agree, is some extreme situation. If we look at the aspect of the most underdeveloped, then those most developed will have this tendency to collect contributions and keep them at the level of their municipalities. I think it would be very dangerous at this stage.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5928	Did you take your word for it? (The President speaks to Alexander Vukic. ) (Alexander Vukic, from the place: No. Don't you? If no one answers again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 44, against 110, with 10 abstentions, did not vote 16 and a total of 180 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Culibrk. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Culibrk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5929	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2, which is the last position, where it is said if the employer does not pay the salary by the 30th of the month, for the previous month, he must pay contributions based on the basis set out. When business disruptions occur, the union and directors, or the board of directors, can be paid a minimum profit of 40% of the average profit and that is about 1,800 dinars. My amendment refers to contributions to social pay in that case for minimum earnings, which is in some sense the principle of justice and the situation in which we are in. I'm going to give you an example, and this is a compensation for one member who's been abolished, that in certain situations the government can adopt a regulation that will free certain companies or certain areas of business up to 50% of the contribution to earnings. Take, for example, the textile industry, there's about 150,000 workers. It will have exports of about $200 million this year but unfortunately, it has an average salary of 2,000 dinars. It was partly brought into that situation and the country's economic policy, holding a 30,00 dinar course for a single brand that is not economically justified. If we're in favour of the market economy, we can't take administrative measures to keep the mark course, we need to put it on the market. But if, for certain reasons, the government estimates that the course should stand because of inflation in April of 9%, in May perhaps the same, it will do so in summer, then it would be necessary, since about 135,000 people will come into one position because of the government's economic policy, to allow them to free taxes and contribute to a certain degree. I propose that this amendment be accepted, so that in these cases taxes and contributions to a minimum profit of 1,800 dinars can be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5930	Is anyone else applying for a discussion? Here you go, Mr. Zarko Obradovic, after you, Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5931	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, members of the government, I have come out to support the amendment of my colleague, Culibrk, for the reason that I think he shows one understanding of the economic situation we are in. In fact, today we heard from some other MPs that the state needs to protect workers, which makes sense. I think the state should also show an understanding of the economic situation in which our economy is located and which certainly, at least in one period, of course, should not deal with the forecasts, but I don't believe it can be short, the question is to what extent will it go for better. So, in relation to such an economic situation that is currently characterized by a large indivisibility of the economy, over 60%, and a small degree of capacity, one logical question is being raised -- to what extent the employer will be able to meet all these obligations. The amendment of his colleague, Culibrka, has just predicted that the employer is able (of course, he does not decide on it on his own, it is known how to make minimum earnings) to temporarily overcome the economic difficulties in which the company can be found, while at the same time paying a certain amount of money to the state and the employee. Not just for the state, but for employees to lose their personal income. It is that there is an employer's obligation, but he can't meet that obligation under the conditions of the economy he has. I think that this amendment should be accepted for the reason why an earlier solution has been abolished that the government could, in a certain period, only certain companies, from a particular branch, free the payment of 50%. I think that this amendment helps to find a solution, either in the short term or in the long term, would depend on business policy, but to overcome difficulties and to get employees to receive personal income, and yet to pay and contribute to the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5932	Mr. Borislav Pelevic, as president of the parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5933	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I suggest that this amendment be accepted because I believe it is indeed in place. So, if the employer doesn't pay the salary until the 30th month for the previous month, then he is required under the bill to make contributions to the lowest basis of Article 2(2). The amendment is to make a minimum profit. I think that's good. We will come, unless we accept this amendment, to a situation that is paradoxical. The situation is next, most employers will have to pay minimum profits. This profit is 35% compared to the average of the previous month, according to the Republic Statistics Office. If we know that in the previous month, according to the Republic Bureau of Statistics of the Republic of Serbia, the average earnings were about 4,200,00 dinars and 35% were 1.500,00 dinars. It's a minimum profit. It will happen to us, if this law is adopted in this proposed form, that the employer will have to pay the lowest, or contribute to the lowest basis, which is 3,033,00 dinars, which means somewhere around 2,500,00 dinars. So, it's illogical for a state register to go to 2.500,00 dinars, and to pay a worker only 1.500,00 dinars. I think the adoption of this amendment would remove some of this discrimination and protect the workers. Believe me, a large number of employers will have a great deal of trouble paying even the minimum profit, let alone the lowest basis. If this is added to the contributions, it will indeed be very difficult to pay what the employer is obliged to pay during the month. The adoption of this amendment would significantly mitigate this position and I see no reason not to do so, helping most employers in Serbia, either in private or in the social sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5934	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word has the minister of social affairs, Mrs Gordana Matkovic, followed by Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5935	I talked about it a little yesterday, but since there are a lot of amendments concerning whether these basics should be abolished, whether they should be minimum earnings etc. So, the concept that the government has taken, of course, can be discussed and there can be different arguments and there can be a different view. But the concept that the government has taken, and according to these changes in laws, that is, parts of the law, is that it is not a good way to protect neither companies nor companies, nor employees by making discretionary rights or some reliefs practically available to them. In the end, if you look at it, it's the same as budget giving. So if I tell someone - you don't have to pay taxes or you can pay less, then that means less revenue in the budget. So the question now is what's a better way of intervention. Either means some sort of intervention. We have defined ourselves for this concept, and according to this, laws have been laid down.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5936	The word has been given by MP Aleksandar Vukic, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5937	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, by reading this amendment, I was first in doubt what he was referring to. In fact, I was thinking that he might include even something broader than the amendment itself contains. Namely, this earlier position of the member we are talking about, if the employer does not pay the salary no later than 30th of the month for the previous month, is required to make contributions to the lowest basis of Article 2(2) of this article, is problematic for several reasons. It is problematic not only because of the base and the rate of contribution itself, but also because of the fact that it is a priority to pay off the state's affordability, compared to paying off the worker's earnings. This is what is the first problem in the position of this member, but this amendment does not refer to it. It applies, as far as I understand, to the payment of contributions, so whether it will be on the lowest basis under Article 2 or whether it will be for contributions related to workers and their minimum earnings. So much of this amendment is acceptable to the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, with us thinking that the upcoming amendments to this law will be very important, especially when it comes to the fact that this whole attitude can be abolished, because why would the priority be paid to the state in respect of the payout of obligations to the worker? Then the question arises as to how the workers will be protected, how they will be able to get their incomes. Or, at least, to go through some medium solution to ensure that certain profits are guaranteed, but of course certain rates of contribution to the state, so that the state and employees are not completely different relationships, that is, not to take a different relationship with them and that there are no different arches, but to be at least the same arches. So that's what we think is the biggest problem with this attitude, and we're going to support this amendment, because it can kind of fix, as much as it can fix this bad legal solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5938	The word is, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Marco Culibrk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5939	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 96(1) said that Mrs. Minister didn't understand me. I asked for an amendment, so when there is a disturbance in business, this minimum profit of 1,800 dinar can be paid, by the time the disturbances are removed, because we have a seasonal business, the current business disturbances, the employer will pay the worker the rest to the real salary under the collective contract, and then he will pay the contributions and taxes to the state to which he is obliged under this law. So, we're not going to ask for the abolition or reduction of taxes, but to leave the employer, who is now operating in very difficult conditions (for sure that in this privatisation process we will come into a rather complex situation, which we cannot even foresee), to leave one opportunity for workers to pay real gross earnings under the new law, but in agreement with the union and the board of directors when these business disorders are removed, to do what they need to do, and to pay the state as well. No one is in the interest that there are enterprises that cannot exercise basic rights towards the worker and the state during a longer period of time. That's not the point, and we all agree that we're going to a market economy, but since we're still in one transition, we have to have an understanding of for sure over 50% of our economy now in a similar situation and it's already in June that it won't be able to respect this. We're just looking for one understanding. When I have already answered the word, it would be good for the Minister to explain, in Article 4 of this law, that the Ministers for Labour, Social and Health will pass a regulation on how contributions will be paid, which regulation will regulate it, in what way; since these laws should be applied from 1 June, and today it is 10, that as soon as possible, ministers from this area agree on what rates it will be, at which the form will be applied, so that people in the economy can make calculations. One more thing, this whole package has been advertised as a reform and redistribution of the economy. Unfortunately, if there is no change in rate there will be no redundancies of the economy, even with the entry of a warm meal and regression into a gross basis without a reduction in contribution, there will be a new burden in the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5940	I have nothing to say to you, since this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you could have called on article 91 and received another word. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5941	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will remind you of the presentation of Minister Djelic, and particularly of the views in which he has made the parliament aware of the planned policy on the rates and burdens that are at the moment great and which must certainly be reduced. Our wish is to meet the end of this year at a rate of 60%. We planned to lower the government's first quarter between 75% and 80%. This is what our wishes are and we will meet with concrete intentions when we finish the agenda scheduled for this session of parliament and engage in new sessions, with new topics. The privatisation law passed yesterday by the government and was forwarded to the Assembly for consideration and adoption. I would like to tell you something about those arguments and the facts concerning the situation that the opposition criticises, which concerns the situation of sanctioning those companies, or employers who cannot or who do not want to settle their obligations to employees. The accounts are still coming together and making this final balance, so we know what the situation is, the particular situation in society, that we're meeting. There is no information system that would help us in this, so I can't tell you today how many workers have acquired the right to retire without formally having the opportunity to use this right, since for years they haven't paid any contributions, so they've practically worked in their businesses for 30 years, and in those 30 years the last five or six have not existed, because their employers haven't paid contributions for objective reasons or for some others. This will be determined by the competent authorities involved in the business. I would like to tell you that we, by adopting a number of changes in the laws and proposals of the government sent to parliament, have adopted, among other things, what defines these future proposals and relations and promoters of the resolution ministry but also us as parliamentary majority in the Assembly. I'd like to mention article 15. The labour law which was the previous item of the agenda and which defines the circumstances under which the employer is sanctioned by banning the exercise of activity for 30 to 90 days, as well as that we, as the authority, have left the possibility to the competent authorities, in particular the tax authority, to assess the reasons and motives which have resulted in the inability of the employer to settle certain legal obligations. So we did what we could only do, so we left the tax authorities to assess whether the payment of the contribution didn't come from objective reasons, whether the company was unable to do something like that at one point, or whether the company had the means, and that kind of thing he didn't want to do because it wanted to reroute it to another side. Therefore, the tax authority will assess the reasons and whether these reasons are justified, whether they are objective or exclusively due to another effort, and will accordingly sanction such a type of behaviour. This is what has been left so undefined and quite openly, where it is said, in particular in Article 6 of this proposal, that the body responsible for payment operations will inform the competent and the Republic tax authorities of employers who have not made a payment for the previous month at the latest, or have paid a contribution in accordance with a member of this law. The competent tax authority shall determine, no later than eight days after receiving the notification, the obligation of the employer to pay the contribution within a specified time limit. It will determine the employer's obligation to pay that contribution within a certain period, and it may do so exactly in a way that will protect the employer himself. Maybe he'll agree to do it in three months and leave those three months as a period of recovery for the company itself, so it can be able to do something like that. But if it is found to be available by means, then Article 15 will apply. The labour law, which says it will pay the first fine for failing to settle obligations towards employees and the state, and unless it settles the fine, only then will the second-degree sanction be a sanction prohibiting him from working for 30 to 90 days. That period has existed in all previous laws that have been amended but have not been amended by these members and specific provisions. So we have left the possibility for those who are involved in assessing how many circumstances are under which the law of objective nature has been violated, how subjective they are, and to carry out sanctions accordingly. This sanction does not have to be an exclusive ban on labour. It can be a fine, and the sanctions can be so wide that it allows the company a certain period to be able to meet its obligations to employees and to the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5942	Thank you. Since no one's applying for a word, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 51, against 108, there were no abstentions, there were no 17 votes, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is absent. Does anyone sign up for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am obliged first to point to one, I hope, not a malicious mistake, but something that primarily reflects someone's ignorance. It is not Natasa Jovanovic, a national MP, such as Mrs Matkovic's minister, but the minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Please take care of it in the future. Secondly, she's not absent, she's been unlawfully expelled. Now let me move on to the amendment. So, we think that this amendment will achieve two things, so we think it's good to accept this amendment. Namely, the first thing is - why should the employer's obligation to pay contributions be further strengthened, if it is already regulated by previous members, even other legal projects that we have already adopted. And on the other hand, we would show, regardless of what is regulated by other laws that have already become laws. We have come into force, which we have adopted earlier, an equal relationship and the treatment of the state towards workers and towards the state itself. This attitude is not necessary at this time. It seems to me, as an additional explanation of what was just said here, that if all that was accepted, therefore for this law, all that existed in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations and Employment Act, in order to have too many powers of the tax authorities, very arbitrarily. Not to remind you of those standards that speak of a certain deadline, which we have already indicated, requiring that some more precise congenital norms be passed, so that they are given very broad powers and I am now commenting here in benches and said that this will make the authorities of income, i.e. employees in those bodies a much better position than once the heads of customs. It seems to me that too many powers are given to some, and the question is whether there is a qualification for such a thing. Whether there's a reasonable reason and whether or not someone will get something. One more thing that's very important here, which I haven't pointed out in my previous presentation, is the fact that we really have a tough economy. She hasn't been in a bad state in the last year, two, three or four years, she's been in bad shape for decades. It's nothing new and nothing weird. Not to talk about our external debt and everything that we used to do when we allegedly lived well -- we lived well thanks to huge debt rather than to systemic solutions. So it's not something that can be blamed for one, two or five people from the previous two, three or four years of government, but it takes a lot longer. But in such conditions where we have such a difficult situation in the economy, a difficult situation in our economy, additional impositions and ever-increasing demands at the expense of employers will further damage our already quite a failed economy, especially the manufacturing sector that almost no longer exists in Serbia. We think it is necessary at this point to be as freed as possible, that, of course, all their obligations towards the state and workers are at peace and pay, but if we don't stimulate them in such a way again, the consequences will be a far smaller number of employees, an even greater crisis and a real recession. And by the way, we've only studied monetary mass, we've calculated something, if we're not (that's interesting information for the MPs), to a great extent we've increased our production process, and if we don't get very big money from the outside, we're counting at this point about 400-500 million marks in the shortest possible period, which isn't a small amount of money you'll agree, and nobody thinks that we can get it back and service the debts and we're paying interest, that we're either going to go into inflation or a big recession. I guess there'll be another case sooner. If that happens then the legal solutions provided for by this law will be obtained in their weight, and then we will have an even more difficult position for employers and those who work in the economy, those who are employed in production, and I think we will enter into an indecisive circuit, into a pistachioulus vitiosus, from which we will not know how to get out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5944	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 52, against 99, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 19, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 45 MPs, against 102, abstentioned 5, he did not vote 21, a total of 173. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from the People's Messenger Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5945	The Honorable Presidency, I did not get a chance to step up with Minister Matkovic, but I want to say that the state is selective - when it takes, it takes the same from the rich and the poor, and this applies to this set of labour and social legislation laws, and when it does, such as. children's allowances, then the state and how it takes care of the rich and the poor. For example, children's allowances in Belgrade, compared to children's supplements in Turkey, can be higher by 40%, which is deeply unfair and the state must also take care of the principle of solidarity, which is not available, at least when it comes to the law that is now to come. I think we're clear on that. When it comes to the specific amendment that I have tabled to Article 10, Article 4, which states that, in addition to the fine for the infringement referred to in paragraph 1, of this Article, the employer referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article may be subject to the prohibition of the exercise of activity for a period of 30 to 90 days. My suggestion is that this word "can," delete, and put the word "must." First, I think this whole attitude is unnecessary and unnecessary, because fines are enough, but if this attitude is already going, I think we should delete this "can", because what does that mean -- who and how will determine who needs to be given the measure of banning the performance of 30 to 90 days? I think this proposal is very involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5946	There's a minister's word, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5947	Here, very briefly, what you're saying is that there's a difference in the amount of children's supplements, but, as you know, that law hasn't changed, so it's a law that's earlier. And let me tell you, I'm giving you some right, we're going to have a chance to discuss, hopefully, this year about it, because there's still some difference in the cost of living. But it's the law, the way it was brought before, so we can't say it like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5948	There is a word from MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5949	I must say that the legislator in Article 10 has one honest intention. However, I don't think that she, without fully considering the criminal measures that can be implemented in this area, can give serious effects. This is not just about the application of this law and this package of laws, but about a series of legislations, in an area where serious legal disadvantages have been established before, and conditions are created that a larger number of employers, whether private, whether social, whether those dealing with independent activities, have the conditions to make various abuses in this area. Therefore, I think that the amendment by my colleague Bushetic has its weight and gives a simple order to the state authority, and would probably be applicable in the area of self-operation, because we expect, after accepting these basics, that there will be a dispersion in employment and layoffs. There will be a discharge of a number of employees, especially private employers, simply because they are not fit to pay for this base, because it is significantly higher than the base they paid for. This area is difficult to look at, and I think serious measures are needed, but there are no serious measures, in turn, in particular, legislation that creates conditions for the opening of trades, i.e. the opening of companies, because there is no such measure - what happens when someone breaks several times, or does not pay contributions? There is this prohibition measure, which is selective, and it will hardly apply unless this word "must" is put in place, because there are still a series of conditions in which some employer will close the shop, open the store to another person, or fire one number of workers, go to the employment office, report them and re-apply them to another company, even charge money because he has re-received them in a working relationship. Therefore, I think this sentence also makes sense because of the seriousness of the situation in this area, and I think that MPs should support what counterpart Bushetic said, that is, to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5950	He's got the word, Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5951	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listened very carefully to SPS representatives when they spoke of this amendment. I must say, of course, every good amendment of opposition MPs we will support, because we really think DOS is the worst, but this amendment cannot. We cannot support this amendment, because it would be contrary to everything that we've been saying from this pay phone, and in the principle debate, and most of all in the discussion in detail. I agree with Mr. Bushetic and Tomic's argument that there is arbitration, the possibility of selective application, if the term "can" remains, within 30 to 90 days to give him a sentence, etc., but we cannot agree with the strengthening of that termology, that this punishment must be imposed, because we would also go against employers and employees. So it seems to me, with everything we've talked about so far, about this law, about its bad side, about its faults, that we're going to have an order and a legislator who might say -- well, here it is, that's who are really putting the most imposed on the employer, they're the ones who are looking for the greatest possible punishment. We believe that this obligation to abolish the right to work, i.e., to carry out the work that would be given to the employer, at a time like this, especially in such difficult economic and economic conditions, is not good. That's why the SRS parliamentary group, during this amendment, will, therefore, because it contains some good but also some bad parties, be restrained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5952	He has the word Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5953	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I do not think we can accept this amendment, as a party of the Soviet Union, since, unfortunately, it is even more restrictive in this part than in Article 10, which is proposed by the Government. So I think it's better to stay "can impose a ban on the performance of 30 to 90 days" than to say it. However, this can be seen more selectively, and in that sense, as I understand it, the president of the DOS parliamentary group also spoke earlier. I don't know whether as a representative of the Government, on behalf of the Government, or on behalf of his parliamentary group, but he also said that some things would be considered post-festum, or more selective than it was prescribed in law, and in any case should be supported if that is indeed the case. I would like to ask Mrs. Matkovic, the competent minister and ask for an answer if possible. The question is very specific, in the light of the law, given that there is an increase in the basis for the calculation and payment of the contribution, because it includes the tax, as well as other personal incomes, and is thought to be a warm meal, a regression and a field supplement, it is necessary that parallel to these changes, namely right after them, there is a reduction in the contribution rate by the PIO funds. Given that this law does not provide for it, but it stands in reason, I would ask that Mrs. Minister only says when a reduction of the rate will occur, i.e. some harmonisation. Of course, not at the expense of the PIO Fund, but not at all at the expense of the employer, or employees. It says here that it is necessary to be parallel to these changes, or right after them. Since there is no reduction in the tax rate parallel to these changes and with the adoption of the law, I would ask for an explanation of what it means - right after them and when it can be expected, and in the opinion of the competent minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5954	Mrs. Matkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5955	So when these three laws relating to social security are passed, then it is necessary to determine what the rates of contributions are. You have already discussed with Mr Djelic, within the framework of his laws, that the intention is to reduce the rate of contributions. They are not passed as for the law, they are made in funds for PIO, but we expect an agreement to be reached by 1.06. which is the contribution rate. So when Mr Djelic talked about reducing the burden, I was here in the assembly, he said that when you look formally, the burden decreases just because you go from net to gross. What's on the net 100% of gross is 50%, etc. So it's a formal reduction in the burden, and a substantial reduction should result in a reduction in the rate of contribution. We expect it to be established and brought before the end of this month, i.e. by 1.06.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5956	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 26, against 112, 28 abstentions, 14 did not vote, 180 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. He doesn't accept. ) Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5957	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Goran Cvetanovic, MP of the SRS and myself (and Goran is not present, because he is unjustly excluded from the session, just like Vojislav Seselj and Natasa Jovanovic), we have submitted this amendment that is completely identical to the amendment that we have submitted to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment and Exercise of the Rights of Unemployed Persons. According to Article 11 of the Government's proposal, Article 149 of the current law, which allowed the Government, at the request of the employer, to establish a lower basis for the payment of contributions under Articles 125 and 5 of this Act. We think that the high base for payment of contributions is a noose around the neck to the economic operators. Now the government avoids responsibility, that noose stands, it can drown some economic operators, and the government says, well, that's the same for everyone. I'm not a supporter of some great administration, that the government should interfere in all business businesses. I think the government needs to create an ambience, equal conditions for everyone and that's just fine. It's okay in developed market economies, in conditions where there's as much stock market, market, supply, demand. Yet this country is far from all that. I think that the government should and must take responsibility in that part, in some justified cases, to enable a reduction, i.e. the introduction of a lower basis for payment of contributions. You may say that this proposed solution is better than the previous solution, but that's what you said when it comes to severance. You said there was a better solution in the new law. Here's today in "News" I read -- some DOS experts confirm the opposition's allegations that the severances will be twice as much as in the previous period. You can say that these bases are now equal to the basics of the previous law, when they are revolving. That might be true. They've grown, of course. That may be true, but now the situation in the economy is harder than it was in the previous period. It's even worse, even less worked, even less exported, even less produced. It's down to production, just a flag, like an example. We can't accept this kind of explanation of the government, we can't believe it, because you've repeatedly shown us that you've provided explanations that one of you later denied. Just as we don't believe in this affair about Vuk Obradovic. We're assuming he touched someone's interests, maybe the Lutra, maybe the Galenica, we'll see, time will show.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5958	The word is Mr. Wolfiche, according to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5959	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to say that almost always, and this is legally observed and correct, every time we should welcome every single one of those proposals that removes any possibility of arbitral behavior or giving any discretionary authority, and especially to the authorities of the executive authority. From that point of view, someone might say the new solution proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is good. However, we believe that in this case an exception should be made, as you know exceptions should really be interpreted closely by the ejaculationes sun strictissima interpretationes, translate them into a rule. I think it's very important to make an exception here because of the fact that our economy is almost collapsing and that it's not our interest and we can't do it in half a year, a year, two, three, five in such a way to create a healthy base and solve the problems that have existed for decades. It cannot be dealt with in this way with business giants who are unable to settle their obligations on a continent of such high bases, which are taken as higher, not lower, as Minister Matkovic said earlier. Therefore, we believe that this exception should be accepted and that it should be given to the Government in this case discretionary law, discretionary powers in exceptional cases, in certain, particularly difficult cases, and it is understood that the competent legislative authority, the supreme legislative body, may even indicate that it has the ability to control or competent assembly committees to have that kind of control capability. So, that it would not go into its opposite, but that those companies, those companies that are most endangered in such a way, could be helped. I don't think the Government of the Republic of Serbia loses anything by that. That is why I call on the Minister, Mrs Matkovic, to accept this amendment, because it seems to me that they do not lose anything, because they never have to make such an exception, they never have to accept it, and sometimes it will do them good because in such a way, when there are no other solutions, I am sure they will be able to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5960	If no one ever answers for a word after this amendment, I'm putting it to a vote. For 48, against 113, two abstentions, were not voted 13, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Obradovic submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new article 14. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5961	Since I am an MP for the Serbian Unity Party and also a pensioner, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13. The PIO Act. Here's what this is all about, I've submitted that amendment and you've probably all got it, it's about the degree of this new law, the rate of gross earnings, that there's a disturbance in pension and disability insurance. This member would guarantee, instead of the law, until the Law on PIO agreed, that the rate of contribution goes further towards net earnings. It's about that member I'm proposing. I don't think he's going to disturb anything in the PIO Act, but he would influence the fact that there isn't a jump in the net and gross earnings, until the law agrees. I think he should remain that member. That's why I'm proposing to all MPs, and this member will not create a legal disturbance, to adopt this amendment, so that there will be no jumpout, until the law is brought into line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5962	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 47, against 107, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, a total of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. This ended the search of the bill, in particular and the decision on amendments. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act as a whole. I ask the MPs to vote. For 115, against 51, there were no abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. Before I move to the 15th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, I would like to inform you that I have received a letter that the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes that, due to the temporary absence of a representative of this law, an amendment to the order of consideration of the agenda points should be made. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provided that the National Assembly may, during the session, make changes in order of the agenda points, with the agreement of the promoters of the relevant acts. I suggest that the 15th point of the agenda be considered as 18, and the 18th point as 15, so, with your decision possible, we would move to review the 18th point of the agenda, as 15. Please make your point. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5963	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would really like to point out on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group that what is happening is almost incredible. It is true that you have that possibility or right, if you want to do so, according to the Rules of Procedure. (A voice from the O.R.: What's amazing? I'll explain. Just hold on a second. It doesn't matter to you anyway, nor did you read one of these laws, none of these amendments, you're going to press a red or green button, in line with whether we're going to suggest something for or against, so I don't see why you're so worried about a few sentences. So, I just want to point out for the citizens, for the public, and for the MPs in the National Assembly, to an incredible insecureness. We don't understand the temporary absence of the legislator. Secondly, let me point out a technical problem for those MPs who have been preparing themselves. We know that some people don't care because they haven't even seen any of the material. But some people don't. We were preparing for this package of laws that were coming, and now we are coming to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which has nothing to do with it, and then again, as Mrs Matkovic said, we will return to the same subject, to the same problem, to the same health insurance bases that we have been talking about so far. I think it would also be necessary to give us a more serious explanation, that we know why this is happening and why MPs are putting themselves in such a difficult situation, at least those who are preparing or those who want to take part in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5964	Mr. Vukic, it's not a matter of seriousness, on the contrary, it's about the seriousness of the promoter. It may also be considered without a proposing representative, but precisely because we believe that the MPs, who decide on it, should hear him or possibly question him, the government has proposed to postpone him because of his absence, because of the way, that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you did not dispute that, which we did not even change, but that we inherited him in this part, to change the order of the points. The SRS has submitted four amendments to this law and I don't think it's that much of a problem to discuss it now, especially now that, I say, there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Pelevic picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5965	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, of course, by Article 86. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly may decide on a change of order, with the agreement of the promoter. I would not say that there is a non-serious National Assembly here, nor is the president of the National Assembly, but it is certainly unserious in this case, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If the minister is busy today with some urgent work, and I don't know which job would be more than that today - the passing of the law right out of his field, then even if the government could have referred the Deputy Minister of Health or any of the assistants. I think that's what the government's insecureness is about, as has been seen many times so far, when mostly government ministers do not attend the National Assembly sessions. I have to say that here I have to isolate some ministers who take their duties very seriously, such as Mrs Matkovic, who has been very explainingly defending her legal project these days. I think this practice should not be represented in the future, as the prime minister said yesterday that the Serbian government has done more for Serbia's image in the past 100 days than for the whole of Serbia in 100 years. Putting yourself above everyone and putting yourself even above Nikola Pasic, as prime minister, yet the most successful so far - I couldn't justify it. It could be justified that Mr. Prime Minister sits here and that Mr. Ministers sit here when their legal projects are adopted. The SS will vote against the change of order, just for principle reasons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5966	Please, there is no debate on such proposals under the Rules of Procedure. We're already in the debate. I ask the MPs to make a decision on the proposed amendment, so that the 15th point becomes 18, and the 18th point becomes 15 and then take a break of 10 minutes, for... No need, you have two amendments and 10 minutes is enough to examine the material. Please make this proposal known. I'm closing the vote. For 112, against 42, the abstentions were not, were not voted 18, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Ten minutes is enough and I'm begging you, since we're gonna have a break at 1400 hours, so we can continue the session in 10 minutes. [[After a break.]] I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum to continue the work. I'm guessing we have a quorum to keep working. We move to the 18th point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Marriage and Family Relations You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Petar Jojic, Milorad Mircic, Bozidar Vujic and Veroljub Arsic on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? The word has a minister, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5968	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this means another law, will be such two more in this session of the Assembly, where no fundamental changes are made, where changes are so much reformal if it comes to connecting with a package of these other laws. In this particular law, there are practically two amendments. First, where the termological alignment with the Labour and Working Relations Act, which has been adopted, and guaranteed earnings is replaced by a minimum profit term and a second change, which actually refers to the percentages of the calculation of the amount of maintenance, since gross earnings are higher than net earnings, then, of course, that the percentages must be lower and that is what is calculated in the relevant services and these percentages are now proposed here. So nothing is fundamentally changing, although there must be a reason for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5969	Do the Committee's reporters want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone answering for a word? There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Vitomir Plužarevic, and after him the Messenger of the people, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the family is a basic cell of society, so as well as we as a people should pay special attention to it and our piety is appreciated. The development of the family depends on the development of society. In Serbia, the patriarchal relationship in the family has always been appreciated. She's the most sacred thing. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations do not indicate family cohesion when it comes to dependent persons. The law suffered changes in 1980, 1988, 1993, 1994 and 1995, and today it is on the agenda. To raise a young creature, along with the necessary love and warmth, there is also a need for considerable material resources that are required to separate parents or parents, or adoptors, and we know that this is the point of raising and rearing a young generation. So far, the court has always taken the needs of a dependent person - age, education, food, clothing, departure, etc. when determining the amount of money needed for a supported person, in accordance with the law. With the proposed reduction in percentages where it is not clear whether or not the supporter has, in addition to minimum incomes, a warm meal, journals and similar incomes, these funds lead to an unequal position of the dependent person, and these are children from divorced marriages mainly, compared to children in marriage. This way, education will be difficult for these people, which is not certainly the intensity of an advanced society. It is known that our children are far more intelligent than children of the same degree of education in the West and have a larger knowledge fund. This proposal to amend the law will not allow children to perfect so much, and this bill should regulate it. In addition, parents, or maintenance workers, have so far been obliged to, even though they do not make permanent monthly incomes, provide other means for the supported person, which these changes do not guarantee. Children are our wealth, our hope and offspring, so I suggest that the percentage of the allocation for the supported person be at least 15, and up to 50% of the monthly earnings and pensions and other earnings made by the maintainer based on regular or other work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5971	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and after him is the People's Messenger Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5972	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the proposed solutions are directly affected by persons who are legally subject to the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. This bill significantly reduces the rate of cash compensation for each maintenance person from the monthly income of the maintenance undertaking. By law, this percentage ranged from 15 to 50% for each supported person, while the bill provides for a percentage of at least 7% for each supported person, not more than 22% of the monthly income of maintenance providers. In my opinion, there is absolutely no reasonable reason for these percentages to be reduced, so I suggest that this bill not be passed. In fact, one question arises, the predecessor mentioned and pointed out the fact, what will happen to those persons who, according to the Law on Liabilities, and also under the current Law on Marriage and Family were obliged to support children, parents, parents, old and exhausted or spouses who are not in a permanent working relationship or are deprived of their business abilities, what will happen to the category of those citizens. I believe that here it must have been regulated in this bill that all categories of persons who are obliged to support and who need to be even in some way. On the other hand, the percentage provided for by this law is minimal, as it will happen that one who works and earns substantial incomes stands out from 7% to 22% for each supported person. However, the applicable law was far more favourable for a dependent person than this law. In addition, those who are not in a permanent working relationship -- the current law has obliged the court to establish the parameters and facts in which it makes the means for the existence of a person who is obliged to provide maintenance. The previous legislator did not have so much tolerance for those who were obliged to support it, but he obliged both parents and other persons who are obliged to give support to work in every way possible and to make the funds needed for those persons unable to provide their existence. This was determined by the court in a regular litigation procedure. However, this norm was not transposed into this law on amendments and additions, which was necessary to do. There's no mention of this. As a result, this should have been regulated in an adequate manner, so those who are unable to provide self-support would have been provided by those who, under the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, are obliged to provide funds for existence. It will certainly be a big problem for students, a big problem for disabled persons, a big problem for sudden and old people who are unable to provide existence. That is why I remain on the proposed amendment. I suggest that it be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5973	There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop - Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill on amendments to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations has only two members, i.e. it changes the two positions of one member, and the second article says when the law enters into force. The legislator gave us the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law and it is contained in Article 29, which says that the family has special protection and that marriage and relations in marriage and family are regulated by law. Parents have the right and duty to care for raising and raising their children, and children are obliged to care for their parents who need help. The problem of marriage and family relations today is to this extent, as it is regulated by law, overcome, in such difficult economic and social conditions, that we simply forgot what is keeping our family and what is destroying. We have not made an effort, or government has not made an effort to predict some new ways and models of family protection and, above all, children in the family, who are very often abused and on the edge of hunger and have difficulty attending classes and sometimes very difficult to reach their schools, because parents have no money for transportation and the like. If there is still a situation where marriage can be divorced, and one of the parents has to provide support, the question is, what is it that is an optimum, which can provide the child with some basic conditions for life and further schooling. Neither was this percentage that existed from 15 to 50% earlier and did not allow that parent who had received custody of the child to take care of the child in the most thorough way. Always this second parent and those other parents' receipts, they're missing. Who has family and such experience knows what it means. However, in these conditions, when a large number of people are unemployed, when many people expect to be fired, I wonder, in general, whether even the maintenance provider, however much he wants to do, will be able to isolate anything for his child to support. Even if the court decides it's 22%, which is maximum under the bill of this month's earnings, does that mean anything at all? I tried, since we had a little bit of time before we moved to this point of the agenda, to simulate it, well, let's say -- a parent who has a salary of 3,200 dinars, if it's calculated at 22% that he's supposed to give support to one child, that's 704 dinars. If we move on to gross earnings, and gross earnings were what used to be net earnings plus extras for a warm meal, and we know what, 1,049 dinars, a fee for transporting 341 dinars, that's 4.590 dinars, and 22% is 1,000 dinars. If two children are dependent on these 4.590 dinars, they should be able to support two underage children or children who are in regular education of 2,200 dinars. What's left for him to live - 2,300 dinars. The terms are such, the wages are as high as they are. It is difficult to expect in these conditions that even a maintenance provider and maintenance recipient can also survive, essentially, to survive, rather than regularly school and normally intellectually and physically. I also think that the explanation the promoter gave here, that just because we're moving from the net profit system to the gross earnings should go to a reduction that is double, even 60% less, because 60% is not an increase from net earnings to gross earnings, does not hold water. There's something else behind it. And what? I expect a representative of the government to explain to us here. All in all, such laws as this, the mass of others that we have received and which are in the congregation procedure, show that the government will not get caught, that it is not capable of that, of any serious problem in society, but of dealing with marginal matters, and now we have this package of laws. We started with the IRS, then through these in labour and social legislation. This is one of those, but I don't think there's any right to measure how much that support should be, and in that sense, we've submitted several amendments, trying to influence the government at this point to solve this problem. But family legislation certainly requires a lot more from the government to deal with this problem. Our children, unfortunately, are not protected by today's government in the right way. It happens to us that in the school education system they only get a disseminating from the current minister, Gaša Knezevic, who says - from the materials for the first or second grade high school to throw out "The Letter of Love", the despot of Stefan Lazarevic, or "The Root" Dobrace Cosic. What his intentions are clear to all who understand it, and what generation does this government want to create, speaks this fact for itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5975	There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5976	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to make things simple and talk about what the Proposer really meant and what is only being changed by the bill. In fact, it is true, as Mrs Matkovic said, therefore, that there are no fundamental changes to this law that belong to the so-called so-called. Public - legal, but with the elements of private - legal law, there are therefore no fundamental changes and additions to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, but that it is a matter of harmonising with some of the other laws that we have passed in the previous days and those that we should have passed today, but because of the absence of a minister we were not even able to conduct this debate. But Mrs Matkovic says in her reasoning of the bill's proposal that these changes are as reformative as they were reform and previous laws, i.e. how they relate to this alignment with gross earnings, new terminology, etc. If anyone can call this reform law, I really congratulate him. It has nothing to do with reform here, nothing that changes seriously. It's about one alignment, which we also think isn't done in the best way. And the question is, if you were changing that legal provision that said everyone had to pay, that is to say, to raise between 50 and 15% of the monthly amount of their earnings, so that solution was in the previous law, and it was about the net salary, what we used to call the net salary, how did you get to the amount of 7% to 22% on gross earnings today? In what way, what math? Did you want to leave everything the same, so then math is wrong, or did you want to somehow reduce the obligations for the one who gives the support, and thus, of course, reduce the rights of the supported persons? So that's one of the key questions that's being asked here. Because I'm going to try to make a simple calculation, so that we don't re-mix gross wages and gross earnings, as we did, I'd say, all afternoons and even the previous days; we're going to make an example -- out of the net salary sometimes, if the competent judicial authority, if the competent court makes a certain decision, the verdict is that the person who gives support is bound to pay 50% in the monthly amount of his income, so if he has them in the net amount of 5,000 dinars, that's 2,500 dinars. If you now have a net profit, which no longer exists as a category, of 5,000 dinars, add to that a warm meal of 1,000 dinars, 340 dinars per regress, make it 6,500 dinars, 22% of which is significantly less than 2,500 dinars. I don't have a calculator right now, but it's much less, 1,000 dinars less. Thus, the supported person receives far less money than he had before, or how much his rights were under the previous law. It seems to me that this is what puts those who are today the most vulnerable, when it comes to supporting faces, about that face category, and most often it's about children. We have other categories of out-of-date, disabled persons, etc., but we don't seem to be doing this any good, we don't contribute to any reform, we don't make it easier for the state to work, except, for reasons unknown to us, the rights, first of all, are diminished. It seems to me that something that is unacceptable or should be unacceptable for most of the MPs. And second, when it came to net earnings earlier, there could have been this relationship or that proportion of 1-3, but when it comes to gross earnings, then that proportion should be reduced. It would be logical, as I believe, that the previous law needed such proportion, and that leaving the possibility of arbitrary behaviour to the competent judicial authorities, to be lower. I especially think, when it comes to gross earnings, especially if it's about bigger profits, if that's what it's about, that this proportion should be lower, that it's not 1 :3.1 -- as it is today in your bill's proposal, but in the worst case scenario, 1 :2 or 1:2.5. I even think that better suggestions in our amendments and better mathematically mutilated, are calculated to take it from 10% to 30%. It seems to me that this is something that is closer to equating the rights of sustained persons with what we had in the previous law, which, therefore, with these two or three attitudes, is changing and supplementing. It seems to me that it would be good for the government to accept some of these amendments, not to mention too much, because it is not about the essence, therefore, of changing complete marriage and family legislation in our country. It would be good for the government to accept or accept, on behalf of the Government, amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS (I think that only we have submitted amendments to the proposal for this law) to accept some of these amendments. I think we would then do something that would be similar to the rights of the supported persons, but also to the obligations of those who give, in relation to the previous law, which I also don't think was a bad solution, speaking globally about how these people fulfilled their obligations, or what their rights were. It's particularly dangerous here, when it comes to the rights of sustained persons, if we have in mind the fact that life is getting harder every day, and they have, in nominal terms, if you want to use this principle of monetary nominalism, in nominal terms, they have an incomparably lower amount of their rights, which can be realised in accordance with the amendments and additions of this law than it was before. In any case, thanks to your attention, I call on you not to accept this law, because by not accepting this law we would not essentially accept any of the previous laws, which seem to me to have dealt badly with this matter, and I believe that, if it cannot already be accepted as a whole, therefore, to reject this law, I think it would be very important that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or resolution minister, accept amendments to the SRS MPs, if for nothing else, then because of the exercise of the rights of the supported persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5977	The word has a minister, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5978	This, of course, isn't reform change at all, please, I didn't say that, but I'd like to notice how important it is from the point of view of some rights right now that the income supplements are included in the profit. So, if someone once, let's say it was a supporter, they only got a warm meal and he didn't get paid, or he got a much smaller salary than a hot meal, it didn't make him feel obliged to give a part of it to someone who was a dependent person - a child, for example. From that point of view, there is indeed reason to include these additional receipts, which in our conditions, unfortunately, exceed the basic ones, and the motive again is often the avoidance of taxes and contributions. Secondly, the intention was to make this a financial neutral mechanism. Again, the question is, when these percentages are calculated, what's the profit? Profit, therefore, is not only a former net profit, plus a regress, a warm meal and a corresponding addition, but also contributions, as stated in the previous law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5979	The People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5980	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this is about the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which means, once in the law package, on family legislation, and what is very interesting, and perhaps more transparently, is the words that Mrs Matkovic, the Minister of Social Affairs, has said about this speaker, explaining the essence of the proposal in terms of changes in the words that there were no essential corrections, but are only technical or perhaps just termological. Why is it that, we all have to ask ourselves, and as representatives of the SRS, we have come to the realization that this government is in a very transparent way showing, from 5 October to today, that it actually doesn't know that it does. You will remember, all of you MPs, from January 22nd, how many laws we have passed in this assembly to this day, how many of them are essential laws. We passed the Law on the repeal of the Law on Information, so we said, until the new one was passed, the old one was passed, so we passed the Law on the repeal of the Law on Ownership Transformation, and it was said - until the new one was passed, the old one would rule, so the Law on the repeal of the Law on the University was passed, but again it was said - until a new one was passed, the provisions of the old one were in force, and so we came to these fundamental, unmade legal changes. Obviously, this expert government is very transparent of the people, the eager change, the desire for a better life, that it is unable to do so. If there was a need, and there was a need, to essentially enter into the mathematics of family legislation, and among other things this law, we would not have a bill on amendments and additions in two members. And like those previous laws, not counting budgets and harakish fiscal laws, this one has two members. One member who says when this change will take effect, and one member who only says it is termological, i.e. technical corrections. What corrections? It goes from net to gross, and that would be fine if that old member of 310a applied. However, in their explanation, they said they did the following: a reduction in the percentage was used coefficient, so there was no ordinary mathematical calculation of net, old net with all the supplements, regression, a warm meal, and other additions to a new gross amount. Now something new has been done here. The coefficient was used by placing on the average net earnings and projected estimated gross earnings. Since this government is involved in chimpanzees, it predicts what it might be. So, in some ways, he's even giving up on what they're trying to advocate, gross earnings. Besides, it's an expert government or it's also a transparent government that shows us what it is. What it is, and you will see it through the amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS, is that this proposal is essentially wrong. If you didn't really want to change anything, you guessed again that you didn't do anything. You did not do what it says in the name of Minister Matkovic, Minister of Social Affairs. Nowhere is there or a very skillfully avoided social dimension, a human dimension. In this case, in this law it should have come. The social aspect was to come, that those who are supported should receive adequate income for the month in which they should also survive biologically and have other needs. After all, the Government that announces change in other spheres, and the Shuvar or Gašo, or I don't know what it's called, has announced some changes in education laws, including some payments under secondary education. Ms. Matkovic is obviously against it and is going to hand this Shuvar by helping individuals who will receive certain amounts in any case not even be able to meet their basic conditions for biological survival, let alone some new shwarfs. That, in any case, should the Minister go to the soul, she is the Minister of Social Affairs and all those voters who, in the September-December elections, gave the votes shown by them for certain changes, for some better life, especially those who have those supported faces in their family, will see how much this government is headed with Chancellor Djindjic and with Mrs Matkovic are willing to take into fundamentally certain changes. As in neither law nor law, nor in other areas, they are neither here nor here, but only liquid corrections. That's what the government is. Since a person in a certain age, older, recently in all the minority newspapers, I read the obituaries first, so yesterday I was even surprised that the list of "Politicals" on four pages made a reference to 100 days of government, well, it's probably also in line with this transparent and expert government. Also, instead of dealing with essential matters in the area of family legislation, this government or DOS MPs are dealing with some new competitions that are more autonomous and than who, but also as they deal with it, the duchy assembly is offering us a platform like some new kind of secession. Instead of this government dealing with essential things, in this case the Law on Marriage and Family Relations or the opportunities to resolve the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, to resolve the issue and situation in three municipalities in southern Serbia, this government also...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5981	Mr. Vujic, come on, and you're dealing with what you called in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5982	And you, Mr. President, see, and instead of offering something fundamentally changing this area, is concerned that he does not know how to deal with eight municipalities in northern Serbia who want autonomy in autonomy (votes from the hall: topic), which is the first step towards secession, but this transparent government, and it is a good thing that it is transparent, that voters in this Serbia who have entrusted you with trust, do not give God any more guidance, because you are so transparent and so bad, and what this member proves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5983	The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5984	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another one of the amendments and additions to the law in a series, changes and additions, and maybe this is the law that is proposed, and whose amendments and additions are proposed at least, and there are two points that change in the law or, more specifically, two positions in the previous law. The minister, or minister, is right when he says there are no fundamental changes. As for legal form, but there are substantial changes. In fact, most of the amendments proposed by Serbian Radicals, MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, are in this direction to change the content in favour of the supported persons. Namely, what's this about? According to earlier legal provisions, it is the obligation of the maintainer to allocate between 15 and 50% of its earnings, and it was once a net profit; when it was shown more vividly, it means the maximum possibility to burden the receiving or earning of the maintainer is up to half of its income or earnings. This law reduces both percent and whatever you want, by making commitments to a supported person at a height of 7 to a maximum of 22%. It means maximum to 1/5 profit. Is it as gross as it is adjusted, and in the explanation we have heard that this law is also the result of gross earnings, i.e. the gross earnings model, is not essentially important now. It is important to provide favors or favours to those who have an obligation. Here, one of the examples of life examples, it may not be real, but it's picturesque to understand better -- when ordinary citizens, each of us in the bank raises credit, obligation based on war or annuity, it's up to 1/3 of our own income. When they have to pay their dues or meet and settle their obligations to a dependent person, and we all know, it's associated with children who support themselves, children who are from divorced marriages, then that obligation is maximumly burdened with 1/5. You know, there's no logic. However, one who fulfils his obligations pays a supported person, needs through the law, including through these changes and additions to feel some greater obligations. So, practically, and the proposals in the amendments to us Serbian radicals have made the maximum increase. Of course, whoever makes the decision, and in this case it's a court, there's one dipazone in this shift and a supplement, which is from 7 to 22, and our proposals are not to be below 10%. This is the fundamental difference, i.e. the substantive difference. I'm a little surprised, but don't take this the wrong way, we Serbian radicals aren't the ones who respect (how they know it with the old town's vocabulary to tell colleagues sitting in this room) the ruling party, or the government what it isn't, or to spread some propaganda or half the information we're told. I was surprised that this reform government, to serve your vocabulary, your futuristic views, didn't have in mind that these changes and complement relationships and that law that you announced would be adopted here, which is the legalization of marriages of sexual minorities. Look now, we're not that many experts, you have experts amongst your ranks. What will be under this new law, i.e. amendments and additions to the law and in such one, for us radicals, the unnatural community, and for you it's obviously normal, in the case of divorce there may be some examples, but there's no point going so far as to call it, you know better) if the child belongs to mom, Dad will have less obligations. After all, as soon as possible, you must adopt these laws, we Serbian radicals will vote against the amendment and addition of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5985	The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic, followed by Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5986	Dear People’s MPs, I absolutely do not understand why the government has proposed and put in the congregation procedure of this amendment and the addition of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. What did the government want with this? I guess he's making an impression that he's supposed to be dating new legal projects. What do we do with these changes? Be careful, we all say, this amendment and the addition of the law has two members. He doesn't have two members, he has one member, and the other member says, "The law goes into effect on June 1st." Imagine, the bill of amendments and additions to the law with one member. What did the government want with these changes? In an explanation, in the written text given to us by the Minister, it is said that there is a reduction in the amount for the supported person, because he is now so-called. gross earnings are reportedly protected by maintenance payers and provided by a maintenance person with sufficient cash credits. Is that so? I'm afraid that after this tax package that the congregation majority adopted, no one will be able to pay for the maintenance, nor will children on that basis have any authority. Watch out, that cynicism. Now you DOS, or this government takes care of children. If this government, or the congregation majority cared about children, the youngest population in this country, would not have introduced astronomical taxes, for example. Children's food, children's clothes, shoes, school textbooks, school notebooks, or, for example, juices. You know, those baby juices, and you put taxes on it, and the drugs not to mention it. I think it's a simple waste of time, on the side, which is at least untasteful in this way to change the agenda points. Like, the government is working and it can't honor us with its presence. The government is working, but not what this people are paying for, doing other things. Look at this harangu, this media link against Obradovic. That's what this government does, or better yet, that part of the government that deals with business. It's working. So the whole government is blocking itself until the man who probably stepped on them is liquidated. Do you really believe that this thing about Obradovic will be swallowed by anyone in Serbia, no matter what.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5987	Let's go back to the amendments. The People's Messenger Stevan Kesejic has the word, and then the National MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5988	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am afraid to approach this speaker again, because this secretary has so fixed me up that I simply don't know how to begin with the exposure to this problem you've imposed on us, and it's dangerous because it's behind my back. It is also probably connected to this law that you have proposed, or amendments proposed by the Proposer. There are only two amendments and therefore the bigger problem is that this law can simply be explained for which it is good, or for which it is bad. He's good because he's very narrowed down, on one piece of paper, and he's simply not going to burden most DOS MPs, that they have to read because they have other obstacles to work, and here they are now reading the paper. They're simply not interested in these laws. However, Serbian Radical Party MPs are interested in these laws, and we are very interested in not passing so bad laws as they have been passed so far. This law is linked to labour legislation laws and is the consequence of previous employment laws, pension and disability insurance, etc. It is precisely because of the misrepresented legislative projects, as well as the unaccepted amendments by the MPs of the SRS and other opposition MPs, that we now have a situation in front of us that we have a bad bill that you are offering us. In particular, we have to say that the bad laws are in that part, where employers are obliged to pay in funds, and they don't commit to pay in profits. So, why is it connected? It is linked because the maintenance provider will have nothing to pay for the maintenance of users because, simply, the laws that were passed earlier, he, therefore, do not oblige the employer to pay him the profits and he will not have any money for it. So that's why we have submitted amendments to those members who would be in line between the employer's obligation to reduce their obligations to the state, but to equalise their obligations to the employees. In that case, surely that the percentage proposed here, which is 7 to 22%, might be real, because the profits would be higher. However, since not only will there be no higher profits, but there will be fewer because the worker will remain without those minimum earnings, he will not be able to meet his obligations. The increase in percentages, as proposed in this law, reduces the rights of maintenance persons. The rights are diminished because, according to current law, they were bigger. Thus, in the current law, the maintenance provider was obliged to, if it gives for maintenance, make that amount up to half of the income, i.e. the earnings it makes if the person is employed. The amount of 7 to 22% is, if we calculate the real value of the profit, it is half smaller, so 50% lower than the amount that was otherwise received by the person who is on board. That is why I believe that this law is as radical as any law passed before, and it would be good for it to withdraw from the procedure and prepare a more serious project of all laws, because this law, which you are proposing today, shows how much you care for marriage and family relations, and especially for children who will remain neither guilty nor in debt without basic means of life, which we at least consider necessary for this society. I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is making such bad laws precisely because there are no experts in its ranks who could make such laws that could be accepted not only by the DOS majority, but also by opposition MPs, and that would mean that this is a common interest and that family and society would also be protected from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. However, since we know everything that is happening, that certain ministers have begun to accuse each other, we cannot expect family or society, that such a government will provide them with a more peaceful and peaceful life. Therefore, the Serbian Radical Party and Serbian Radical Party MPs will not vote in favour of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, as it, like all laws adopted so far, hastily, unprofessionally and radically passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5989	We'll continue work in 15.30 minutes. [[After break - 15.40]] I ask the MPs to establish the quorum so we can continue our work. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We're going back to work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5991	In accordance with Article 78. The Rules of Procedure of Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure say, among other things, that when a session is scheduled, it is generally taken into account that one day a week is not working. I suggest we finally vote it out, given that in the four weeks we've been working here, it's been a rough day. I don't take into account any other things that have happened in an emergency protocol. So, I suggest, I don't mind whether it's Friday or Monday, but to finally make a decision so that those who work in firms can plan that time, and not -- it'll be Friday, it'll be Monday, it'll be another day. So, just once we finally come forward here, which is the day of the week when MPs who work in companies will be there doing their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5992	Mr. Guduric, if I understand you correctly, you interpret that the National Assembly is working four working days a week. I'm not sure that's exactly what it says here: "In determining the day of the National Assembly session, it will be taken care that the National Assembly is one working day a week, possibly Friday, not an ambush." "It's gonna count," so we're counting... (National MP Guduric, from the post: There are 70% of MPs working in companies here, and 70% elsewhere... I know it's not easy being a folk MP, but believe me, it's not too hard, so tell your colleagues to count on working for five days, and from case to case, just like the session is running, because we have a full agenda, there's a lot of stuff, and this one, and it's already prepared for next week's sessions, we'll keep an eye on it. We didn't work for Big Friday, so we didn't work on the second day of St. Peter's Day. George, etc. We've had days, even on some holidays that are and haven't, we haven't worked, so it's been days. We didn't do it now on Monday, but I think you're counting it as a rule to do it all five days a week, and depending on the circumstances, we're going to decide if there's going to be any day off on Sunday. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have two objections to the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. The first remark concerns the first part of this proposal, the first position, which is restrictive and which, in relation to the current law, reduces the rights of the recipient of this fee. The second observation refers to the second part, the second point of view of this proposal which is not just, i.e. it leads to an unequal position for both the debtors of these grants, the donors, and the recipients, or the maintenance persons. The restrictive nature of this first member is reflected in the reduction of the minimum rate, as well as the maximum detachment rates, by a minimum rate of 7% per one supported person following a new proposal, and the maximum rate goes to 22% compared to the income of the maintenance obligor. In the current law, the current law, these percentages ranged from a minimum 15% per person to up to 50% of the monthly earnings that have so far been net earnings. In the light of this position, the reduction in percentages was made due to the redefined category of earnings, i.e. the transition from net to gross earnings, which, according to the reasoning, provided a neutral fact in financial terms and in relation to the maintenance undertaking. I tried to make one calculation in this short time, so I came to the following conclusions. If the average net earnings currently in Serbia are about 4.5 thousand dinars, then according to the current legal amount of this fee for one supported person is about 700 dinar. If according to this proposal, which is in front of us, the basis of which is now a warm meal, a regress and some other fee, this would currently amount to around 5,800 dinars, taking into account that a warm meal of about 1,000 dinars, a regress of 350 dinars per month. All this is conditional, so if the employer has the means to pay off this category. If we apply the expected rates to this amount, i.e. At a minimum rate of 7%, we get an amount of 420 dinars, which, you can see, is incomparably less than the previous 700 dinars. In the second position of the proposed member, one injustice has been made both against the donors of these fees and against the recipients, i.e. the supported persons. In fact, this attitude refers to pensioners who are maintenance donors and have retained a range of 15 to 50% in the past compared to the pension they receive. This means that those who are providers of maintenance will be burdened with the same amount that has been burdened so far, i.e. significantly higher than the other employees, means persons who are in a working relationship, which brings them into an unequal position with other maintenance providers. Also, the recipient will also be in an unequal position, because the recipients who receive this pension from the pensioner will have significantly higher rights, i.e., they will have higher amounts, and those donors who receive compensation from other persons, so the persons who are in a working relationship, will have significantly less compensation, so the reduced right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5994	There is a word from MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5995	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a bill on amendments to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. How serious the Government is with such bill proposals, it shows a sudden change in the agenda of the National Assembly, and the health minister has not found it appropriate to coordinate his obligations and defend the proposed law in the National Assembly, before the MPs. Suddenly, a proposal for marriage and family relations came before us, which deserves a serious approach. Family is the basic cell of every society, harmony and harmonic relations in the family are the prerequisites for living and working and contributing to the society of each individual. The bad economic and social situation has a major impact on family relations, and this law should make them fit in a way worthy of man. I am not convinced that the proposed Law on Marriage and Family Relations, as a result of its application, will have a fairer relationship. The financial amount of the maintenance determined in relation to the earnings shall not be favourable to him who gives the maintenance, nor to him to whom it is intended. The economic situation in our country is such that it will not eventually guarantee that maintenance users will receive the elemental resources. The funds will be insufficient and without purpose, and without purpose. I guess the purpose of the law is to achieve fairer relations in the sphere of law, not to adopt the law, but to be without application and without any effects in practice. In most cases, maintenance bonds will not have anything to settle their obligations, perhaps not with their own guilt, but with the guilt of society, which does not give this area enough attention. What do the users expect, when it's almost certain there's no chance they can fix it and expect a better and safer future? Because of all the other proposed laws, because DOS does not give us any confidence, I am convinced that, while DOS is in power, there will be no improvement in this very significant social sphere either. The destructive functioning of the DOS coalition is reflected both in the national, political and cultural sphere of society.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5996	It's not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5997	Even in the social sphere, which belongs to the proposed Law on Marriage and Family Relations. I would not wish for any citizen of Serbia to be in the skin of the obligor (I suppose, President, that this is on the agenda), in the skin of the maintenance officer, or the one who receives the maintenance, and that all of this is realised under the authority of the DOS's international coalition. DOS MPs, according to their old, stalking custom, will vote on the law that will not benefit Serbian citizens, whose consequences will have a devastating effect on family relations. The only thing I can, as an SRS MP, do for my people is vote against a bad bill of marriage and family relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5998	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u5999	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would only try to explain the only difference, which practically stems from the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, and that this amendment is not a measure for the reform policy implemented by the Government, but is part of the process of harmonising legislation that must certainly be consistent with those changes that we have made by adopting a package of tax laws of the Resent Ministry of Finance. So nothing diminishes the rights that were guaranteed by this law. There are changes that are solely due to the transition from net to gross wage. The gross principle of pay is something that, in itself, obviously remained unarranged here during the assembly debate, but I think we've given enough arguments to those who were willing to hear them. So, if we take the example that was mentioned earlier, and we agree that the average of the Republic, the net average today is 4,500 dinar, then the gross salary will not be that net average, plus the warm meal, the regress and everything that makes up that supplement of 1,400 dinars, but gross wages will also be taxes and contributions to the Social Security Office, which pays the employees, so that at the rate of 96% at this point, that amount of 4,500 will practically increase to 9,000 dinars. When the changes that are the essence of this proposal are applied, the reduction of the percentages that are being dealt with under the law, you will see that this bill is practically, financially neutral, that it does not allow more resources to those to whom it applies or less. Simply, this is the process of harmonising the laws with the changes that followed in the tax system. He cannot be considered to be a carelessness or an effort by the government and the parliamentary majority in parliament to disprove those rights guaranteed by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6000	There is a word from the Messenger of the People, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6001	Gentlemen, when it comes to such a serious and sensitive sphere, writing such a law is really a shame. Here's what happens to this law when you split it in half. He's pulling a leaf in half. This is an explanation for TV viewers. It's an explanation of a government that's worth nothing, it can be thrown away, and in eight rows, an expert team has written what can happen to a supported person or to someone who gives support, and how his rights are regulated. In eight rows one so complex area that takes care of children, families, etc. This really doesn't serve anything. You're putting this item on the agenda over the line. Mr. Chairman, you don't even protect speakers behind this pay phone from throwing away, even swearing. I'll use it, Mrs. Comic said one sentence yesterday, if she didn't in the meantime authorise it, she repeated it twice, and that applies to you for throwing, "also" - twice. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6002	The word has a folk MP Bora Stanimirovic, followed by MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6003	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, as long as this enthusiasm stops, I would like to ask just a few words, after this symung, it is easier to discuss. I pointed out on several occasions that it would be better, certainly, to pass comprehensive laws. However, this has really gone too far and I don't see that there are any excuses. I must remind you that this law that we are now discussing has been passed on the basis of Article 9. The Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Serbia since 7 June 1980. Be careful, 20 or more years ago, normally with several changes, additions (and probably not exactly how it is done now) and has a total of 419 members, but a change in Article 310. I don't know why exactly Article 310 of Article 4 and that's what we're discussing right now. Somewhere before the break was, on several occasions, the re-polymics began with the minister around gross and net, how we're going to explain it to the kids now, what is gross and what is net. It's obvious Mrs. Minister knows that well. It's probably more of an explanation of what it is. But how to explain it to the children. You see, on one occasion, I'm going to try to explain it in the name of a child's supplement. Number one, that's something else, but it's about gross, net to know. The child's supplement is children's meaning - first, second, third child, fourth already gone. So it's probably 13 kids. That's one thing. Secondly, we can explain to the child what is gross and what is net. The kid's looking for milk in the morning, and we say, you know what now, he can't because Dad was getting paid net. Now that salary is gross. That child's allowance you're getting right now isn't a gross salary bill. While I was getting my salary net, I could get a hot meal and buy some milk. If he doesn't understand it, then he needs to be told that we are going towards Europe and that there are no excessive demands. No milk, of course. Secondly, I'm crossing the fruit of this second part of the discussion. The happy circumstance is that Mrs. Minister is the resolution of these laws that we are now discussing, so if I just said that we passed this law 20 years and over, we had several technological revolutions, two sexual revolutions, and everything changed, and the law remained the same. We can do that on a case. I'd like to ask the Resort Ministry, if the Minister will please listen, can the Minister follow this?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6004	She's following you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6005	We don't stop time. Please, I'll continue. The minister is probably like Napoleon. He can track a few things at the same time. You see, when it comes to marriage, just before one of his colleagues said it was a very important institution, that it was very important for every society, etc. However, if I mentioned earlier that everything is changing, that many things are changing, we must fight to form a modern family, a modern marriage. First, marriage isn't what it used to be, 20 years ago. It was a community of opposite sexes, and now marriage is made up of faces, you have an example of more countries in Europe, the same sex. So that's going to change, too. Secondly, it's not a solid community, because at the time we passed this law, every fifth marriage in Yugoslavia was divorced. Now with us every third, in the Soviet Union each other etc. Therefore, I think that just from this point on, we have to try to make this law complex, means in general change, in order to solve some things in the family, or in marriage. It is certain that the family, or marriage, has to endure some changes and that this marriage, or family, is in a function of society, otherwise it cannot. That's all I wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6006	The word is given by MP Branislav Blazic, and then by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6007	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, practically one member, two positions, and another member is when it comes into force. It is not disputed that this should fit the tax system reform. In some mathematics, when we enter to calculate that gross personal income has been used so far, it has been used by the judges, but all the receipts that receive the person to pay for the support of the other person have been taken into account. So we had this element, but here it's already included in that gross personal income, actually gross salary, where they go in and contribute to where taxes go in, and now in that math, we're around here somewhere, I mean something less anyway, it's not significantly less, for the shade. However, these separations that will be needed to give a dependent face are somewhat smaller. It doesn't really have to, it can, but it doesn't have to mean anything. It's not that stumbling block that I need so much to discuss right now. These rights are not materially endangered, so that they would represent some significant shift. What is the essence of this whole story, though, when it comes to marriage and family, the Serbian family, is that it has far more problems and should be approached with far more seriousness, perhaps one elaborate strategy that needs to be done in some future period, than one ordinary member, with whom we are messing around here. The Serbian family today is threatened for several reasons, surely one of the reasons is that the transition itself, the influence of the West, the material situation -- means many of the elements that have asked the ministry to come out with one strategy before this law and say, about what we can all do to achieve a stabilisation, since it is very serious earthquakes, which are waiting for us in some way. The idea and goal of the West is to break up the national, in fact, Serbian family, so that they can break up and not allow the creation of a national state. No harmony of the world, no happy society is worthy of its existence if there is basically one child's tears, that's what Dostoyevski said. I think that this should be taken very seriously, given that these influences of the West are becoming very serious and there is a break-up of these cohesion forces that existed within the Serbian family. What this government wants, unfortunately, without any strategy, to show the way, to solve these accumulated problems that are present, does not work, but in some ways gives a connection to America, because those events in the White House oval cabinet are beginning to take place in the offices of the Serbian Government. Maybe that's what we're slowly arriving in America for, but these are some things we probably have to go through with this power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6008	The word is by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, followed by MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6009	Ladies and gentlemen, and this law has been extorted, first of all, by going from net to gross earnings and changing terms, instead of guaranteed, we now move on to so-called. Minimal earnings. As the minister said, there is nothing reformable in it, there is only adaptation. The predecessors indicated that this law would not satisfy any users, as well as those who are the bonds of this maintenance. I just want to point out that this is one in a series of laws that doesn't pass anything new and which is not in its essence reform law. We expected you to propose the previous laws that we have explained and that we have defended and attacked here, to be reform laws, to be passed for a longer period of time, so that all mycos live here, and possibly those who come to invest here, have some security to know that the law is passed for a longer period of time. This kind of work shows that we are quite immature and quite unserious and that we do not provide safety to any investor, the investor, that for a longer period of time we will respect the laws passed. I suppose by changing the law, which is expected in the course of this year, many of these laws will be complemented and amended, and a new law on marriage and family relations will also be passed. That is exactly what I warn - that it was better to wait for a period of time, while we pass a package of laws that we can say that at least a few years will apply and that it will not change, but that this only gives the impression that the Assembly is working seriously, that it is regularly ambushed, and that in principle, laws are proposed that most MPs cannot accept as a good solution. On the other hand, MPs of the ruling majority do not participate in the work, are either satisfied or disinterested in the work of the National Assembly, and other ministers, besides the on-call minister, who must be here as a proposing representative, have no other ministers. It all makes this a little bit unserious, so I suggest that, if not now, it's too late for you to think twice about it in the future before you offer some law. You'd better wait a little while, so we can discuss such a law when you have a complete and comprehensive solution. So this is how I have to say the usual sentence, which many already know -- DOS is really the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6010	The word has a minister, Mrs Matkovic, followed by a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6011	I have to say, we weren't forced for technical reasons to go with these changes, so we wouldn't really go with them. So it's true, changing only one member of the law and going through this procedure, it's really for all of us, I'm sure, the problem. It's just that since they've been changing profits since June 1st, what they're making, we've had to do it. In order to possibly explain to the end what it would mean if there was such a solution left in the law -- one who had received a net profit of 4,000 dinars would have practically all that profit, that is, what he was getting home, had to give it to support and nothing would be left for him alone. Because applying the same percentage to a higher base would mean an absolute amount much higher. By the way, I said that when we talked about the previous law. We've made some kind of plan that's logical, that laws have to pass when they go through the Assembly. Social laws aren't planned for the first two months. Therefore, for their essential changes, we will wait for a few months to pass, and this will all depend on how quickly these other laws are able to pass through the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6012	The word has a folk MP Bozidar Vucurovic, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6013	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... (Glass from the O.R.: Theme. )......................................................................................................... The theme is, if you ask me, I'll have to explain it. Since the president hasn't warned you, I'm going to tell you what the subject is. The topic is an orchestrated attack by the press on the president of Social Democracy. But we don't want to talk about it. We'll talk about the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. The law of one member, whose oral explanation is in and says there are no fundamental differences. It is said to be just as reforming, as are the reform laws and all these laws that have been passed so far and that are in line with the laws of the European Community only by changing rates, figures, percentages, and our laws are, to inform you because you don't know that, but have long been in line with the laws of the European Community. As a matter of fact, this law does not change much more what a supported person will get. The difference is that the one who gives the support will stand out more, but the fact that it stands out will no longer go to the one who receives the support, but will go to some budget funds. Here's how: we said that the current rate of taxes, contributions and all that burdens approximately 96%, currently, is now from the reason of 2,400 to 5,387 dinars to over 100%. What's going on? To get the same person or something a little bit higher, it took the maximum amount to be 25%, because it's 50% of the 50%. He's 22%. Between 22 and 50 is 28. Six or twelve percent on total loads. 12% will be taken more when calculating gross earnings, but 12% will not be given anymore, but will be given 6% less. It's a clean bill. If 100%, if the taxes and contributions burdening the profit are 100%, 50% has so far been the maximum on the supported person or on the supported person. Now it's 22%. That's what I'm telling you. In order to remain the same, even if it were 100%, and not 113% now, the amount that would provide approximately what the supported person has received so far should now be up to 25%. We tried the amendments to move that line to 10-30%, the minimum is 10% and the maximum is 30%, and that would be approximately what a supported person would get as well as the previous law. This way it gets something smaller, but slightly smaller. The insurance guy gives more, you can't say slightly more, but give more. Now that's what's getting lost. That's what these previous reform laws have done, to make 12-15% of the funds going on gross earnings lose somewhere. That's what we've been trying to show you all these days. So, from 96% of the current burden on the net personal income of the former, we've now gone to 112%. That's the difference between 2,400,00 and 5,387,00 dinars. It's getting lost somewhere. It's probably lost, probably, in the wake of those cars that are scrambling on these billing ramps and six bodyguards, three fronts, three backs, and two cars in the front and two backs, in the middle no one drives to fool their enemies. Don't talk about what we're talking about, talk about the law, talk about the amounts, talk about percentages, and all we need to do is know the basic account.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6014	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic, followed by Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6015	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which today was given for consideration in the Assembly, I can only link it to that reason from Mr. Minister's exposé which announced that several hundred laws would be in the process and that his promises would be fulfilled. What do you want with this law, what's the point? The goal is to regulate the matter of the Marriage and Family Relations Act, where we have two interested parties. One party is a debtor who pays a supported person, and the other side is a supported person. With this decision of the law, he loses both the debtor and the supported person, and he only gets the state. To support this, I will repeat the presentations of the head of the DOS parliamentary group, what Ceda Jovanovic said -- if today's average salary is 4.500,00 dinar, and let's assume that under the previous law it was 50%, that is the maximum for supported persons, then that supported person would receive 2.250,00 dinars. If it's said to be a gross salary, on that net salary, i.e. an increase of 96% by very simple accounting operations is considered to be about 8.820,00 dinars, and 22% is 1,904,00 dinars. So, this month, we cut off those support faces for 346.00 dinars. If we move that to the annual level, it's about 4,152,00 dinars, which means that all those families who receive that compensation in a year will be cut off one average salary currently valid in the Republic of Serbia. Who are the ones most often receiving these funds? They are children from these divorced families, and they are users of these incomes that need to provide a better life or a more peaceful life. This is another proof that the new government treats those who are most endangered, and these are those who are powerless, these are children who should live and be supported. As you have previously taxed everything that is necessary for children through income tax laws, so, too, by this bill, you cut those funds that children need to receive. I'm asking the question of who needs to be here sooner to protect themselves, whether it's a liability, or maybe a supported face. Yet I am for this variant to protect these supported persons more than I am obliged, because he is able, in some other way, to replace this deficit, if it is not enough money, while the supported persons who are not able to replace this necessary means in any other way. This amount that I just said is really big, and I think this amount should be checked, not from 7 to 22%, but from 10-30%, and there might be something for a few percent, for some minimum amount, but since this rate of 96% that currently applies, and if we look right through that old law that gives an example of some projected gross earnings and net earnings, that amount is 124.5%. So that these amendments submitted by the SRS would retain exactly what you, Madam Minister, have stated in this bill, which is that it is necessary to execute and reduce the parameters used for the calculation, in order to achieve a neutral fact of the law in financial terms. If you want to accept what you wrote as a reason for law-making, then you should accept amendments to the SRS MPs to protect this particular population, this group of supported persons, I say that these are usually children who need these funds and who otherwise cannot provide them. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are witnessing a hack and haranga of Deputy Prime Minister Vuk Obradovic, who is being conducted through the media and these media and these presses are convinced that they are right, and that, Meko Omerovic appears and accuses his president. I tell you, gentlemen, right now...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6016	Please, Mr. Kragovic, come back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6017	I automatically checked my opinion, because I think everything Meho Omerovic says, and we all testify that he lies and I don't believe it, I think Vuk Obradovic is an innocent man. The theme is exactly what we're talking about, and the theme is what life is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6018	The word has a People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, do you have an obligation to say something in the end about this? Don't, every one of you looked back on the same story.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6019	Proposal to amend the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. I thought this law as well as the Law of Social Care for Children would be together, in the same procedure. But they're going separately. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Law provides the basis for compliance with the provisions of the law in other areas. But the proposal for this law on amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act, which defines gross earnings, is a big mistake and a failure because the newspapers introduced in the field of tax and contribution and earnings are initiating appropriate changes to other laws. One such is the draft law amending the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. The introduction of gross principles into the profit system is also negatively reflected in the maintenance obligation. For, if the debtor is in a working relationship or is a beneficiary of a pension, the court shall determine the future amounts of maintenance on a percentage basis in relation to earnings, pensions or other permanent income. So far, incomes such as a warm meal of an employee, a regression as well as a field supplement have been exempt from paying taxes and contributions. According to the current legal solution, these personal incomes are entered into gross earnings and form the basis for paying taxes and contributions, which reduce the resources to support the person. Amendments and additions to the Law shall be subject to the individual provisions of this Act with amendments to the system defining the rights of employment. In accordance with the redefined category of earnings, it is necessary that compliance is carried out in certain provisions of the law, since in this way the change and the basis used to determine the amount of maintenance for persons exercising maintenance rights under this law is also necessary to execute and reduce the parameters used for the calculation in order to achieve a neutral fact of the law in fiscal terms. Thus, if the maintenance obligation is in a regular working relationship or is the beneficiary of a pension or is made by another permanent monthly income, the court shall determine the future amounts of maintenance on a percentage basis in relation to earnings, pensions or other permanent income. In the event that the maintenance undertaking does not make permanent monthly income, the court shall determine the future amounts of maintenance on a percentage basis in relation to the amounts of minimum earnings in the Republic for the previous month, which is unrealistic. Ladies and gentlemen, the government should help the ever growing number of individuals and couples who want to achieve fulfillment through professional life and parental services. They could contribute to the achievement of these two objectives through compatible development and strengthening of social services, such as mangers, kindergartens and parental leave, etc. In addition, in co-operation with the private sector and social partnerships, the government should foster other measures that facilitate radical families, such as occasional activities and flexible schedules. Particular attention should be paid to the needs of women, who still bear an unbalanced burden of responsibility in the family, by introducing measures that encourage men to share these responsibilities. What is immutable to the market economy model, which is emerging, is highly productive work and a quality product that can be better realised on the market. Such product characteristics and in the final instance, the achievement of profit depends to a significant extent on the workforce, its ability, motivation and concentration in the process of work. This can be achieved, among other things, by providing reliable care for children and their adequate development within the childcare system. In order to achieve the objectives of the childcare system, measures must be defined to help families, i.e. material giving and organised activities and activities developed in children’s institutions, i.e. the institutions of that system. What is significant in most European countries is that the share of women employed is expected to rise. It is also expected to further increase the share of households headed by mothers who support children. Ladies and gentlemen, a large number of companies are not working, and neither are the workers. Or they're on paid leave, unpaid leave, sick leave and company bankruptcy. In order to ensure the maintenance of these families, this should be a promise in the DOS election campaign. We Serbian radicals will not accept this law because it is unreal, unprincipled, intolerant and quite unprofessionally processed and therefore I propose to the government to withdraw it from the procedure and to re-adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6020	No more reports. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the principled search and put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, in principle. For 112, against 51, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 15, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill, in particular. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic and Veroljub Arsic. The government, the Health and Family Committee and the Legislative Committee have not accepted these amendments. Do the applicants want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6021	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with the explanation of this law, I have also heard a statement that, at the time of the payment of obligations to the supported persons, no warm meals and regresses have entered, however, it has often been indicated in the Court's decision that all types of income are paid to the maintenance person, except for those relating to the payment of taxes and contributions. At the very least, I'm surprised to see this kind of concern when passing a law like this, because the most frequently supported faces are children and children who are younger minors. As a parent, I know how much it takes to raise a child and take the right path, so I asked this amendment to increase the percentage for the supported person at the lower 10% limit and at the upper limit 25%. Just one more thing surprises me about this law, that this government may have been a little far-sighted and it looked long-term, because it's pro-Westernly oriented, as you like to say it often; however, from the West you don't bring us the quality and fine things that you can use to this country and this society, you're already bringing us affairs and the government is also knowing what kind of people it was made of, made one of these laws, so that through your maybe the next affair, at least financially spared itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6022	The word is Božidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose with my amendment an increase in the percentage amount of the one proposed by the Government. Personally, regardless of the amendment, I can say that even that amount I suggested cannot be enough for what he should have intended, but, in any case, the amount is greater than the amount proposed by the government. These are the amounts that don't go to the budget. If the funds received by persons who are supported are not financed from the budget, then the resolution ministry should, if nothing else, deal with what its task is, which is a social problem and take into account all the social aspects that come in these cases, when situations arise that in certain families certain persons are supported. And, above all, you need to approach from a humanitarian aspect. As a result, I was also invited to propose such an amendment, to increase that amount so that those affected by the fact that they were already supported by a larger amount could meet their basic needs over one month, not just biological survival, as the government has suggested. Because if you look at the old way of calculating through the net salary and the old legal solution Art. In 310, which spoke of certain percentages, or if now these net wages that are uniquely advocated by this DOS government, through gross wages, the percentages that are predicted in this way, and the pure mathematics of crossing the net into gross than the Government itself said that it applied a certain coefficient, in every mathematics, whenever you want to use it, it's always the same, it's going to be smaller. In this way, in any case, both the human and social aspects of this government have not been affected properly and it goes to the soul and the Secretary-General, Mrs Matkovic and at all this expert government. What I deeply believe is that Mrs. Minister, I do not want to insult her, a true Christian, I believe that she is a mother, and I believe that she and I will pray to God that she herself and a large number of mothers who will be users, children and mothers who support them, who tend to their education, that those faces have now become sustained, that she will personally not come under these percentages and that God will not give it to her, such an accident. Also, as Mrs. Matkovic said, the honourable MP, Komic, for this speaker, as much as yesterday, when she used the vocabulary to look like some new duchy speech, known from the Brozovese era, as soon as possible, that she and I believe the vast majority of female MPs in this assembly, if not this amendment, then the next amendments proposed by the SRS to this same member and which provides for a more humane, socially fair sum or amount of funds to support than the one made by the Government, that this same woman group, if not for this time for the next amendments, will show that they are for social justice, that they are for those who are able to be fairer, more human and existent to live than Mrs. Matkovic anticipated.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6024	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6025	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have an extorted law ahead of us, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to move on to a different accounting of profits. I guess there'll be more laws like that, even though the deadline is very short, by June 1, I guess it'll be about June profits and then maybe there's time. What's this about? This is where the government deals with math. Unfortunately, yesterday afternoon and this afternoon, all I could do was follow these discussions about what gross earnings are and here I promise not to get involved. Practice will show who was right and whether gross earnings are what the worker earned or what they brought him more contributions. There's something else I resent the government, especially the ministry that could've gotten a little bit more power and that this law at least in some segments was more detailed. It's just that we have a white plague and it's fashion among our children to divorce. That's quite obvious. You can ask around about that. You don't need any statistics anymore. Our children are getting divorced a lot easier than they are getting married. They don't get married until about 30 or after 30, and sometimes that marriage just brings a child and a child from grandfather to grandfather, from grandmother to grandmother. Parents are divorced, they have a life of their own. There's a problem that should be regulated by this law. A problem in which this law i.e. The change and addition of the law unfortunately doesn't affect what we do with the white plague, what we do with divorced marriages. How to ensure who the recipients are, older, powerless, divorced women, mostly, and underage children. I don't think the solution so far has been good because it has shown in practice that people have been very easily divorced. And when you have one range now between 7 and 22% and it was between 15 and 30 percent, which doesn't matter, when you have a range that stays on the judge's assessment, then, although in most cases I have to admit that judges care about a child or who is supported, you suddenly realize that even the one who gives support when to support those who are not currently employed can't start a new family. So it turns out that once a divorced man and woman stay divorced forever. One spouse because there is no source of income, and another because it gives support and then has no source of income to make a new family. I dealt with this matter as an MP in 1993, when, on my proposal, the Assembly, although most were completely different political orientations, accepted amendments and additions to the Law on Social Speed on Children and that law has not been changed since then. I see it's very little planned for a change now. Mrs. Minister, women, should be more interested in this law than in mathematical budgets and offer us a law that will not be European or modern, but will suit the Republic of Serbia and try to bring some of our ends back to life, perhaps in a way that this law provides, but not well enough. I especially think of Vojvodina, and I especially think of certain environments in Vojvodina where the birth rate is on the verge of collapse. So I suggest you accept these amendments, because around the SRS MPs have accepted that gross and net, as you say it will be, give about 6.7% of what you gave 7, but we believe that this is not enough and that the supported persons should be entitled to an even greater percentage than those provided for in this law or which were provided for by the Law on net earnings, so this is now translated into percentages. So I suggest you accept these amendments. I don't think you have much of a task in the ministry to handle this law in detail and to try to find a law that will help us to run children again in our villages and cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6026	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 53, there were no abstentions against 109, they did not vote 23, out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Government, the Health and Family Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6027	The substance of the amendment tabled mainly contains what we, the Serbian Radicals, stressed, but there is obviously no goodwill from the government's representatives, or, more specifically, there is no goodwill from a majority corporation called DOS. It may also be interpreted, if these funds are allocated from the budget or if the Government has additional costs if it accepts this amendment, but here the Government appears as a legislator, i.e. it leaves the possibility that judicial authorities, when making a decision, will be able to protect more dependent persons. I don't see why the government has been so persistent or, peoplely speaking, it is stubbornly saying that it would be bad if the maximum of 22% increased to 30% and the minimum, as we Serbian radicals suggested, 10 or 15%. The point is maximum, although in practice we all know very well that rare court decisions, which relate to this and this problem, which determine maximum separations, in this case would be 30%. This is evidence, another proof that the ruling majority has no intention of accepting any amendment, no matter what its content is, no matter what its advantages are in practice, and is not proof of what you are always saying - that these amendments and additions to the law are included in Europe. In Europe, you are involved with some other laws, laws that I have told you to follow, laws on the legalization of marriages, and you have among you who are present as MPs, in this way you are in favour of them. There are some extreme cases where you might have it in mind now, so you want to protect yourself. There are extreme cases, say, where on one side and on the other, a man should pay for maintenance, as is the case recently in Social Democracy, where the man who exposed the girl has on the other hand a boy with whom he can also have a marriage union, which you will legalize.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6028	Mr. Mircic, please refrain.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6029	I'm just explaining the examples. I didn't mention anyone. Irregularity in the O.R. I don't know why you're so excited, nobody's affected by these examples, but that's life, that's Serbia, as you like to say, or individuals. If nothing else, you must admit that you are going to benefit or order those who in such unnatural marriage communities tomorrow may pay for the maintenance.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6030	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 57, against 117 abstentions, there was no vote of 9, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Government, the Health and Family Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6031	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in principle I spoke about the importance of Article 1(2). Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family. I believe that there was room for this area to be settled in general and this law to be adopted in a unique way and to solve a number of unresolved issues and many of the shortcomings that already exist in the existing Law on Marriage and Family. I expected the Proposer to submit such a proposal in which the entire area of family and marriage would be regulated in a unique manner, one law, and not like this, in a piece, in fact, by agreeing only two members, which relate to the height and percentage of giving and maintenance. It is of great importance to pass the Law of Marriage and Family Relations precisely because every society, including our society, gives great attention to unsettled persons, persons who are legally entitled to support, and above all children, exhausted and old, sick. The law provides for many solutions, and at first glance we can understand that it is a good solution. In practice, however, you will encounter a number of problems and, in practice, the court will, from case to case, determine all the facts that are very important for determining the height and percentages for supporting maintenance persons. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, and I suggested that the percentage increase as compared to the proposed one, because I thought that the percentage, at least 7% and the highest of 22%, was insufficient for the patient. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that this percentage increase and I suggest you adopt an amendment that I remain in general with.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6032	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 53, against 119, there were no abstentions, no vote was 10, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. This concluded the examination of the draft law in particular and the decision on amendments. Does the Proposer's representative want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) If not, I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular and put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations in general. I ask the MPs to vote. For 121 against 52, there were no abstentions, no 9. A total of 182 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are moving to item 16 of the agenda: - Proposed by the Law on Payments in State Organies and Public Services, you have received a bill from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Petar Jojic, Branislav Blažić, Lazar Marjanski, Toma Busetic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Veroljub Arsic, Natasa Jovanovic and Milorad Mircic, as well as the Committee for Labour, Borary and Social Affairs. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration, the Administrative Committee, the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Labour, the Boring and Social Affairs, as well as the Committee on Education. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. The Legislative Committee proposed that, in the context of the legal-technical regulation of the text, in Article 1(1), "the Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group" should be replaced by "the Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group", and the words "the Vice-President of the Permanent Working Body" should be replaced by the words "the Vice-President of the Permanent Working Body", which shall be coordinated with the names of these functions set out in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In Article 11, issue 1, point 1: "44/99" should be replaced by the number "49/99", and point 3 should state the numbers of the "Official Messenger" in which the Law on the Receipts of People's MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was published, and that is: "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", No. 7/91, 22/91, 28/91, 48/91 and 68/91. In Article 12, after the words "years", the other texts should be deleted, which shall be subject to legal and technical harmonisation with the provisions of other draft laws, which are in the process of adoption. These proposals were accompanied by a representative of the legislator, who was present at the Committee's session. I'm opening a principled search. A representative of the promoter is a minister of justice, if I'm not mistaken. (Louds from the O.R.: Where's the minister? He has no obligation to be here. He has no obligation under the Rules of Procedure. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Are the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, looking for a word? No, I don't. No MPs have been reported, I can conclude the search if you do not sign up. I'm asking you. I didn't give him a word when he was gone. That's what you and I are saying, all of us. No no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no. Here you go. I'm not gonna close the debate, so sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6033	Mr. President, this morning you informed the National Assembly that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has asked to stop the debate on the 15th agenda, because the mandated promoter, the government's representative who has been authorised here as a representative, is on his way. The National Assembly accepted that by voting. Now you're telling us to start a new agenda, and again we don't have a government representative in the National Assembly. Now, whether it is the Government's selective decision when it will be able to discuss one law without a representative of the Government or before the work of the National Assembly. So I resent you for accepting that there are no government representatives in the O.R., and you have not informed us that the government has notified the National Assembly to request that this item of the agenda go without a government representative. Because we're not little children here and we don't serve to be played by the government. I accept that the government no longer sends a representative, since until now the ministers have not come to the session. Here, we don't need a representative either, but that should be a principle, not a point to point. What was the reason at all then, Mr. President, for us to postpone one item of the agenda by which there were no representatives of the government, and now to discuss the other, by which there are no representatives of the government again. I don't think you've established the principle that this assembly would be guided by and that this principle should be clear to the MPs, that we act on this principle. It is truly incomprehensible that none of the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia would want to say anything about the bill in front of the MPs. It's like the law fell out of the sky. We are proposed by the government in this assembly of laws. Is there more of a responsibility for the government than to send a representative to give us additional assurances or to be there while we talk about the bill, which is why it is truly unacceptable that you have now started a debate without a single member of the government in a hall where a session of the National Assembly is held. I have to put up a protest on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group and say that that way we don't want to participate in lawmaking, that no one should want to participate. This is not a machine to which someone will send a bill and wait when that law, the bill will vote. These are MPs and they have objections, and maybe they didn't get it right enough, maybe they didn't realize... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Maybe they're not, I'm ending up, maybe they're not professional enough. Anyway, Mr. President, let us know if the government has at least any representatives capable of coming to at least some part of the agenda. Let's work on that agenda, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6034	Of course, I do not lay down the rules under which the session will take place, but it has been established by the Rules of Procedure. A replacement order of points 15 and 18 has been proposed, and the government has notified that there will be no proposing, which is quite logical, reasonable, and also in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Amendments have been proposed and the Assembly has declared itself. There's no government report here. The Rules of Procedure did not establish that it was an obligation for the debate to be conducted only with the presence of the promoter. Besides, he might be late, maybe he'll come, but it's not our place to get into it. It's not a matter of Rules of Procedure, it's a matter of political assessment and evaluation. It is our responsibility to continue the debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and in that sense I have offered a word to the representatives of the parliamentary groups. If they do not answer for a word, the word has the first declared MP Garcevic Vladimir, followed by the MP Radojko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6035	The Honorable President and the Presidency, the line is empty, the pay concerns are here. Looks like the 420,000 employees of the state service seem to be looking at what this front row looks like now. But I would like to say this: that this act that is offered to us eliminates something that is a fundamental achievement, collective agreements, in Europe, and beyond. This eliminates the extreme impact of workers and ways of negotiating and decision-making for 420,000 public service employees. The government is taking it upon itself to determine the coefficients, to assess jobs, to assess everything. I don't think there was a question about collective agreements whether there was some agreement or not. The question was the basis of the money she had. On the other hand, this act does not offer the same coefficients. How? If you say someone can work better 30% to get a higher salary, I'll take it specifically, if that's 10,000, 30% increase is 3,000. That's 13,000. He won't tell anyone who works in the community congregation that he doesn't have a good community. It works out of the community, the results are very good, and the wages will be 30% higher. What happens to education, health care, so can we function as if we have a 30% higher contribution to work? I don't think we can. Therefore, the basic branches found today at a low level in their incomes, in personal incomes - health care, education, so I think there is also one part of the state administration, which also has low incomes - will remain in the situation of classification that they do not have the opportunity to achieve 30% and will automatically receive and their working effects will be 30% lower. On the other hand, the question is, what is the purpose of the union in state institutions? Is he supposed to exist or not supposed to exist? Will he work or won't work? He's not here to negotiate what's most important, the standard, the wages, the price of work. So nothing can affect. Perhaps this law for all of us would be more complete if we had here today with the law of the offered coefficients, to see them, so that maybe we could give an even more complete picture. Looks like the government and the service are offering a law that shows nothing, and then they'll sort it out. How's he gonna sort it out? The decree will come, and you MPs, raise your hands for what is unseen. You can't see anything here. I suggest that this material, as such, be withdrawn, to be given a sample of coefficients with this, so that material can then be considered as a whole, where we will see a complete concept of government, whether it can be obtained or should be returned to collective bargaining. The relation to this also shows the presence of members of the government. If they wanted to explain here... I don't want the presidents of the parliamentary groups to give me an explanation of the law. No, let the members of the government come to say how much will be the basis of that and that. We have the right not to hear from the Official List. If it goes on like this, we'll vote it all out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6036	The People's Messenger Radojko Petric has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6037	Respected Presidency, honourable MPs, this law on salaries in state authorities and public services, the Government takes over and centralises how to determine salaries for around 420,000 employees in state bodies and public services. The establishment of a base for the calculation of wages, the calculation of the complexity of jobs, the classification of paying groups, and others, is being taken over by the government. This puts aside power and collective contracts in public services, in the part of determining wages. The question arises whether, in spite of the best intentions, this kind of centralisation can adequately resolve a number of specificities that are present in so many public authorities and public services, a large number of employees in the region of the Republic. The case works, I would like to point out a proposal to determine the salaries of employees in local self-government authorities. This is regulated by Article 6. The bill, where it is proposed that the only criterion for the construction of salaries of elected and appointed persons in municipalities is the number of residents in those municipalities. In fact, there is a difference only in whether the municipality is below or above 60,000 inhabitants. The number of inhabitants is an important criterion for determining the complexity and responsibilities of the tasks of elected and appointed persons in the municipality, but it cannot be the only criterion. It is normal to take another set of elements, such as: firstly, the size of the municipality's territory. There are municipalities below 60,000 inhabitants, which are on the territory, not counting Belgrade municipalities and other larger cities, much larger than those with more than 60,000 inhabitants. Consider how many problems arise there because of the lack of construction of the road network, the problems of organising local public transport of citizens, the problems of building and maintaining an electricity network, building a telephone network, building, maintaining and providing conditions for the work of rural ambulances and creating conditions to provide personnel for these rural hospitals, the number and dissociation of rural schools with a small number of students. Secondly, the degree of economic development of the municipality should be taken into account as a criterion; thirdly, it would be logical to respect the geographical position of the municipality as a criterion. Here I mean the suburban municipalities, the municipalities of the hill-mounted area and others. I believe that these are all really justified reasons and that the government should have the hearing to accept these particular suggestions and correct its proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6038	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Petar Jojic, and the next is the MP, Mr. Bratislav Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6039	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in relation to the draft law on salaries in state bodies and public services, the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to establish a basis for the payment of salaries, for which it has no authority. The basis of salaries in state authorities and public services must be laid down by law, which means that the National Assembly should regulate this issue by legal means. So the final decision on this issue cannot be made by the government, both in terms of fundamentals and coefficients, because this area must be regulated by law. A team earlier, as the law refers to 420,000 employees in state authorities in the Republic of Serbia. In Article 3. The bill states: "The basis for the billing and payment of salaries is determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia". That is why I propose to the Assembly not to adopt this proposal, so that it does not become a rule that in the Republic of Serbia we rule regulations rather than laws, which is visible precisely from Article 3 of this bill. I propose to the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, that this proposal should not be adopted and that the majority, as a legislative body, should decide, not one minority, 10-15 of them to make and propose laws and to rule regulations, because that would not work. It is known that the law and the constitution have distinguished both the powers of the parliament and the government, and have been constrained by the government's rights in relation to parliament, because elected representatives of the people to whom the people have entrusted the legislative authority, and it is the government who will propose and account to parliament. Parliament, as a legislative authority, is also authorised to regulate this area proposed by this bill, which is at the adoption. So once again I propose, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, that Parliament and the representatives of the people pass laws and rule the law, not rule the regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6040	The word is by Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as representative of the parliamentary group - first call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6041	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from day one, the government's attitude towards the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been clear, and according to one of its two most important functions, according to the control function of the executive authority. Today we have a law that introduces imperialism into the Republic of Serbia. Dusan Silni would not assume this much authority and claim to run a democratic state. Imagine a law that says in the first article that regulates how to determine salaries, supplements, fees and other receipts of elected and appointed persons. And when you read how you edit -- he says the basics, the coefficients, the rankings in the pay classes will be carried out by the government of the Republic of Serbia. So what does this law do, what is the function, what is the purpose of this law? The Serbian government has dared to write in this bill that it will determine and pay to the MPs. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says we should control the executive power. Now find me one employee who controls the one who determines his salary. Then I'm asking you, who's really in control of who and who's pulling who's dysgin'? Even the amendment that I have proposed, that the salaries of Members of Parliament should be determined by law, did not pass, but would determine the Government by means of a regulation. Why does this government work? Why does it take over? I would also be willing to accept this bill if everything in it had been defined, if we MPs, the representatives of the minority, had read the bill, given amendments to that law, and said - this coefficient not so much, but so much, you disagree, but everything passed the legal procedure and the law was passed. You're here to regulate something that can't be regulated. You say the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will have a salary that will not be higher than the salary of the vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He's twice as tall now. You have a TV report on it, they ask people how much his salary is, and he says - 20.000,00 dinars, and it's in the Vojvodina Assembly. Now find me in this law a mechanism which will defend the law and which will introduce that one and that one, who has this and that function, has a salary like that and that one, or that one and that one, which has a function here and there. Where are the criminal provisions, who will be punished if the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina does not pay salaries in accordance with government acts, but makes a decision at the meeting of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, and says - we have money, we will pay off like this. That's why there are no government representatives here, they're ashamed of what they're doing with Serbia. They're talking about democracy. Your mouth is full of praise for democracy, do not come down from the media, you will be irradiated more than Perčević and all the others together who were once insolent. You'll be beamed up by the cameras.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6042	Mr. Nikolic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6043	I expect a long time ago, I expected as I went to the pay phone to give you your first warning, something late today, a slow reaction, a long psychic second. That's why they're not here today. I'd ask you to keep your mouth shut while you're listening to smart words. I'm convinced that now that you haven't read the law, it's clear to you now, but you're going to have to shut up and vote, so at least keep your mouth shut while I'm saying I have the right to speak. If you can't ask the ministers why they don't come to the National Assembly sessions, when you can't ask them, why they set you up for salaries, then at least keep your mouth shut while I speak, it's at least a sign of recognition so you can say this if you're allowed to. The law says the government of the Republic of Serbia will determine the salary of the president of the Republic of Serbia. Have you seen it anywhere in your life? Is there anywhere in the world that a man chosen by a people in direct elections has to ask the Prime Minister how much his salary will be? The Prime Minister is the emperor. Those who choose him in the assembly, ask the Prime Minister - what will be our salary. What kind of state do you make here? A country in chaos, a country where the Prime Minister is everything and everything. That's not true. We also have the President of the Republic, and the President of the Assembly who replaces the President of the Republic when this, as is now happening, cannot perform his duty. This law is no good. No good, you put 420,000 employees in the hands of the Serbian government, not in the hands of a law that regulated that the Serbian government would determine them. What pay grade looks like, did someone tell you? We have received the exact basis for payment of contributions for disability and pension and social insurance for eight categories of workers. Now for 420,000 workers, we don't have a category, we don't know how much that's going to be. What will be the lowest basis for payment, which will be the lowest salary in state authorities, which will be the highest? Don't miss some laws so easily. If you were in opposition, and if the Serbian government, she, the dictator, had proposed such a law, would have sat down the UN Security Council, at your request. Now you're in power, so you think that when you're in power, anything that's wrong can pass. Think about everything that's going on here in the National Assembly, think about what's happened since December, from the last election to today. You know, I've been in large mines where there's a precious stone coming out, where a dozen people blow off a block, blow off a huge rock without the use of explosives, tiny punches at the same place, at the same pace, stronger or faster, right into a certain wire. That rock that looked monolithic in September began to collapse in December, and now it's tiny blows...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6044	Mr. Nicholich...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6045	And what did you want now, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6046	I wanted to get you back on the pay law in the state authorities, and your obligation under the Rules of Procedure, under Articles 98 and 99, is to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6047	You're better off when I'm not talking about the subject. I haven't read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6048	It's my duty to warn you if you don't stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6049	I know it's your responsibility... Did you warn me?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6050	If I don't warn you, then I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure. So, I'm giving you a notice based on article 101 for the violation of Article 98, to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6051	What's my warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6052	First.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6053	First? All right, you're gonna lose the next election... Will there be others? You'll lose the next election because you can't act like someone who won...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6054	I'm giving you a second warning because you're not sticking to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6055	I just have to warn you, maybe you don't know that, my dear lady, these are all camera footage.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6056	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6057	And your behavior remains recorded throughout Serbia and I, wherever I appear on TV...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6058	I am now obliged to take away your word after you continue to violate the Rules of Procedure, and two measures have been given to you. So, in accordance with Article 102, I take away your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6059	What did you do?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6060	I took your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6061	Here, I keep talking. (Tomislav Nikolic continues to stand behind the pay phone, even though his word was taken from him. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6062	And that job means when you take away your word that you need to get away from the pay phone. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes for reasons, and based on Article 102, which I can't hold in session because Mr. Nikolic won't step away from the pay phone, and he was obliged.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6063	I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum to continue the session. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6064	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure and it's a injured member of 100th and 101st. You, Mr. President, were not present when you were replaced by the Vice-President of the Assembly, took the floor away from the president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, Tomislav Nikolic, contrary to the rules of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of Article 100 provides for the possibility that the President, or the chairman of this case, may give notice, and the notice is given by Article 101, in order to remember or remember your colleague, the MP who approached the speaker without the National Assembly's permission, which was not the case; which was not the case; who spoke before he asked and received the word, which was not the case; who, despite the warning of the National Assembly President, in this case, spoke of a question that was not on the agenda. First, there was no occasion, Tomislav Nikolic spoke as part of the agenda, but it is obvious intent and how clearly you see it when your colleague presides. It's characteristic for everyone at DOS to lose their nerve. I have one piece of understanding and we Serbian radicals have an understanding, it's hard to be a ruling coalition, it's hard to listen to what opposition MPs say when they criticise, you have to get used to it. It is a price to pay, but the anxiety shown by members of the Civil League of Serbia, who have more functions than membership, we cannot tolerate that anxiety. A similar scenario was during the meeting of the assembly last week when you removed Vojislav Seselj from a representative of the Serbian Radical Party, contrary to Business. What do you want now? Is there another scenario for you to remove Tomislav Nikolic, then one at a time? What bothers you that the Assembly is doing normally? Our task, the task of Serbian radicals, is to criticise the proposals of your laws. We may still walk away from the legal provisions a little bit, but democracy is evidence, democracy is respect for the assembly procedure, gentlemen, and you can't do it this way. Please, President, allow a representative of the Serbian Radical Party, Tomislav Nikolic, to have the right to say this item on the agenda, because nothing has been caused, nor on any basis, to give a warning and take away the words spoken by your colleague. I strongly appeal to you, fellow fellow Members, for the Assembly to work in some normal atmosphere. Don't let the tensions grow. Since the rise of tensions in this congregation, no one will be well, especially those watching us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6065	You, of course, Mr. Mircic, know I can't change that decision. The decision was made by the chairman, he was authorized to do so. I can't even comment on what you said, because I really wasn't in the O.R. We had almost three days of proper work here in the Assembly, including a mid-day debate that was surprisingly constructive, interesting, justified by the confrontation of various arguments, regardless of the MPs and Minister Matkovic disagreed in everything, it was a very good debate. Whether each of us at times determines in different ways the measure and the moment in which the Rules of Procedure should be strictly applied, the Rules of Procedure are very precise, very clear and each individually assesses the moment when a measure should be applied. These measures are always justified in both the first second and the third minute and the first second. It's a matter of feeling, a matter of fatigue, a matter of individual sense of atmosphere in the session. These criteria, by the way, change from day to day and I ask you to continue this session by accepting Mr Nikolic's measure, no matter how he personally experiences it, as a measure that has been expressed justly and to continue to work. Please don't throw it away. There's no reason to raise the tension. The word is Branislav Ivković.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6066	Dear Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, I would like to first, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, to support the presentation of the president of the National Assembly of Mr. Martians, but in some ways to suggest. The burden is to hold a session, it's not simple, each of us still comes out for a pay phone, especially we opposition MPs use the opportunity to announce what is cut when we give an interview, so it's being mounted and it's quite different, and it needs to be understood. I suggest, Mr. Chairman, that you may try to be changed by someone else, and that the burden from the vice president should be explained to every vice president of the assembly, and that might be easier, because it's obvious that the vice president has been in a situation multiple times in which he may not have been in an awkward situation. (Tomislav Nikolic: We don't want this other one. That's a good one. ) Every vice president of the assembly is equal, Mr. Nikolic, and I think that would be the right solution, that all vice presidents have the right to replace in continuity. To get back on the agenda, a bill on salaries in state authorities and public services. What can I say? We are once again in one position when we begin to think about what is true, what is wanted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and what really seems to be. On the one hand, when you listen to government representatives when they talk about new taxes, taxes, reducing workers' rights, they prove to us that they do so in the interests of workers. Now we hear them talking about decentralisation, saying that every local government should be left with the right to manage, leave them with enough financial resources, and we find out for example. that yesterday the government of the Republic of Serbia set a record in the country's history, introduced 17 forced administrations on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It totally ends the results on September 24th. We need to call the OSCE to intervene, because eventually there will be local self-government in all 180 municipalities in the territory of local self-government. We now have the Law of Salaries in the public authorities and public services. I think we need to repeat the information that's already been said here, a law relating to 430,000 workers. Again, it is proposed by the president of free, independent unions and other trade unions, who is otherwise DOS-minister, and by that law is a fine-tuning member of the union war, which is a collective contract. So, we have a position, a very infamous role of the minister and president of the union to lift the largest amount of union struggle, and that's a collective contract and move on to a profit account. In fact, the union is a completely marginalized role. For what? In the fight for workers' rights. There are 430,000 workers in state authorities and public services. But we're going to let him talk to them, so they're going to say what they think about him, but now we're even talking about the purpose of work, the activity of employees. We have different local self-governments. Why is the president of the Belgrade City Assembly more valuable than President So Backo Topola or Vranje, because the one there in a small place, if it works well, if it fights to give its place and its local self-government quality programs to all those who want to invest foreign capital or private capital, if it makes a number of projects for the use of resources for tourist areas, for clean and healthy food, if it does projects for existing capacities where dirty technologies are, if this is a pleasure area where we have water tanks for Serbia, turns into some possible sophisticated facilities, so who can limit the salary. The government of the Republic of Serbia? And now you have the government of the Republic of Serbia that says -- we're pushing for workers, so on their behalf, we're cutting their severances, we're introducing them with a hot meal tax, etc. On the other hand, we have the Government of the Republic of Serbia talking about decentralisation. And what's he doing? It proposes a law that the government of the Republic of Serbia takes 430,000 workers upon itself, to make them pay. Well, is it decentralisation or is it total centralization? Where's the stimuli for work? Where's the motivation? That's 30%. Please, if we want a market economy, if we want to develop local self-government, if we want to reward the president of the So, the president of the municipality, the secretaries of different secretariats, who draw their end, who make profitable programs, who have the opportunity and know how to make their own marketing, to develop rural tourism. You have a thousand ways in this country to create, now in conditions where there is no embargo, at least so far there are no threats to any aggression, the progress of the end. What are you bothering him with? By ranking -- he's the main boss in Belgrade, then the bosses are involved in cities, then there's a little bumpy, and maybe that tiny pumpkin can do 10 times as good a job as the president of SO Belgrade, both for the country and for the end in which he lives. So this is totally destimulating the bill. A law that makes a clean cook who won't bring local self-government anywhere. We need to make that clear. The budget of the municipality, the budget of local self-government depends on taxis, on traffic, on the level of citizens' standards in the municipality, and directly on which the salaries of local self-government employees also depend. I therefore recommend that this law be returned, that a collective contract be made with employees of the public services and that it be given to the market of intelligence, knowledge, if you want and values, that it determines how much someone will have a salary, so let them also have a $100,000 salary if it has brought five million dollars to its end, which are invested and which have improved the standard of citizens in the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6067	Here you go, Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6068	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, this law is not acceptable to the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group. However, if the law were to go back to work and if the government tried to change Articles 3 and 5, I think this law could be acceptable to all MPs. What's this about? It is really illogical that the Government, under Article 3 of this bill, determines the basis for the calculation and payment of the salaries of the President of the Republic, the MPs and others chosen by the people, and we choose the Government here. So it's a really centralist system that shouldn't be a measure of new authorities. I also consider Article 5, which says that "the classification of the pay groups of employees of Article 1 of this law and the coefficients for the billing and payment of salaries is determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia" to be re-deployed. It's really very illogical. I propose that the government establish a draft law establishing the basis, classification of payment classes and coefficients to be determined by the competent committee of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's quite acceptable, because that would at least keep the congregation's dignity as the highest home. Article 53 of our Rules of Procedure, when it comes to the responsibilities of the Finance Committee, which is in charge of this particular matter, states that, in addition to other issues, it can also consider and decide on other issues in the area of finance, which could be subject to Article 3 and Article 5, so that the Finance Committee determines the basis, classification of payment classes and wage coefficients, even if elected, or selected state bodies. So, first of all, I think of the President of the Republic, the MPs and others who are elected directly by the citizens. We will not harm the dignity of the citizens, nor will we harm the dignity of this highest legislative home. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6069	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6070	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have for no reason avoided one fact that we are obliged to analyse when we speak of this law. We are obliged to find an answer to the question that the law so far regulates the payment of salaries in state authorities. So, do we now maybe live in a society where something like that isn't regulated by law? We live. Since 1 January 1998, there has been no law on salaries of government employees, and today we are practically introducing order into an area where there are many more bad examples than the examples we should mention here as good. He's right, Mr. Nikolic. He mentioned a great illogicality by quoting some articles in the newspaper that said the president of the Vojvodina Assembly's salary is 20,000 dinars, and the president of the republic's parliament's salary is 10,000 dinars. But imagine how many such indifferences there are in 420,000 situations where civil servants receive wages. That's where the order needs to be introduced. Order is being introduced by the government. If you suspect that the government is capable of something so capable, then not only one government function, a function it insists on seducing order in the area of salaries of civil servants, but the entire government is challenged. The assembly controls the government. If we as MPs are not satisfied with the salary the government will prescribe for us, the basics and the coefficients, if they are not satisfied with other employees of state authorities, they will change that government. The government therefore also takes into account situations where it defines someone’s salary for the consequences of such a decision. We found ourselves really in a very difficult position. The systematicisation of jobs is under way to correct all these illogicalities that I have talked about and mentioned in the discussions of other MPs. A colleague, Nikolic, mentioned one. But what about the presidents of the court? Two municipal courts in two different places -- three times the salary in one court than in another. How do we solve this? What about the presidents of not the municipalities and the city, but what about the presidents of the two neighbouring municipalities that have double or triple-increased costs in relation to the examples that should be more difficult. So we found ourselves in a vacuum where we're trying to seduce order with very concrete measures. The government will prescribe a basis. The government will prescribe a coefficient. The government will bear responsibility if there is no good in both parliament and those on whose behalf it is doing so. It is necessary to allow the government to consult with the unions. No one's going to the unions. Whoever thinks he's bypassing the EPS union, the health union, won't go well, and the government doesn't. The systematicisation of jobs is 420,000 individual cases that have to be treated fairly, and such a thing will certainly be done. I think it's much more important to say that the law is reintroduced after three years in an area where there was no order, that these are the first concrete moves in this sense of seducing order. The example mentioned is obvious and, unfortunately, it is not a lonely example. That's a lot of them. I think we have a duty to tell the public that this is the first step in the process of introducing order in that domain of our life in which citizens have the right to know who spends, how they spend their resources. Nothing more and nothing less. The government is responsible for that. We chose the government. Among other things, by our choice and by our own will, we have shown our willingness to respect government decisions and, among other things, its expertise in assessing the value of our work and the value of the work of all other employees in state bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6071	He has the word Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6072	This is the second performance, I have the right to three, during one legal solution, as president of the parliamentary group. Do you hear the comments, Mr. Martian? [[jamour in the O.R.]] I, for general pleasure, come from where Mr. Raka Radovic is now. It's a comment -- it's a treasure to us, and it's a real relationship between fellow MPs, who try to work together. I want to say this - it is not disputed to introduce order, but the content of that order is important, the content of that order will hurt Serbia painfully. You know, whoever comes new to where someone works, the biggest mistake they can make is to say, well, from this moment on, it all starts over again, it starts over. It's the biggest mistake anyone can make, whether he's a university professor, a factory worker or a minister in the government. For even before him, they sat thinking men, and before him many things and bad things were done. What happens about the next story -- when it comes to property transformation, the right of workers to do autonomous transformation, and if you hadn't taken that right away from them, most of them in this House, would have continued their own transformation, would have had many collectives that know that 60% of their ownership, would have 300, 500 places today in Serbia, today, with business partners who deliver re-promatials or who are traditional buyers, 500 places in Serbia would have talked to inopartners, the government would have the right to control corruption, crime and everything, and we would have big investment capital. Instead of what we have -- we have a total stalemate, we have a government that wants to do everything on its own, process of work, system theory and organization, those who have taught it or taught it, they know, the narrow throat of production is one channel with many places in order to wait, and it's known how it ends -- a breakdown. We have 430,000 employees' salaries. It's not the EPS, the EPS doesn't belong here. Even if he was, it would be a disaster. So here are public services and public authorities. And now, instead of sitting down with the unions, who technologically know their jobs, make collective deals, leave the creators free to have that stimulation if they do a good job, so let the next municipality have the president of the municipality and five times the salary, if he did for his community what he had to do and made the municipality a good one, be an example. You're making an orderly, but it's the worst thing the government has ever prescribed. What's worse for the government, the government is talking about decentralisation, local self-government. Now the draft law on small and large enterprises will come, and now it is a funny response from the government, because the government just resents me, as a pronoun, that I am centralising this law because I am predicting the agency, although I said it is not going through the regions of Serbia. And what the Government, which advocates decentralisation, is doing -- takes the right and the President of the Assembly, who has chosen you, the MPs, and the President of the Republic, and the President of the Municipality, to make her pay, and also says -- is also worth the president of the city's assembly as vice president of the municipality, and less is worth the president of the Kragujevac Assembly. Perhaps he would be worth 10 times more if he were to negotiate with the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister, finally the flag - Kragujevac. Pejo's been trying to get here for five years, but they're not giving him the U.S. Therefore, please, I advise you - don't let us pass this law. This law is a pure-tuning, destimulating effect on quality people, does not leave room to stimulate those fighters who want to work successfully and quality, to profit their end, citizens in their local self-government. It's just that this government, who wants to do everything, is going to choke, it's not going to do anything in the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6073	The word has a folk MP, Bratislav Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6074	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, which is on the agenda, is a law that needs to do everything that has not been done so far. The largest number of speakers so far spoke about the salary of the president of the Republic, the government's salary, the salaries of the president of municipalities, Belgrade and others in Serbia. No one has said a word about a job in education, about a health worker and others who make up almost 420,000 employees in this country. It's about them. This is a law that needs first of all to regulate these relationships. If a few dozen or several hundred high-ranking officials are not satisfied and 400,000 employees are employed, it will be a good law, and I say it will be good. As for the co-operation and contacts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Union, under this law, I tell you, Mr Ivkovic, and everyone else, there have been more of these contacts than under any other law and I can tell you that all three union centrals have given principled consent to this law. Maybe you don't know that, because you've never talked to the unions, except Tomislav Banovic. This government is talking to all the unions. So, ask the health care workers, ask the educators, you'll see that they're all for regulating these relationships, and they expect a lot from this law. And finally, someone said there are no coefficients here -- there is no one reason, because the coefficients will be settled in negotiations between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the union.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6075	The word is Mr. Ivkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6076	This is a replica, you know, not a third time. I'd like a fellow MP to listen to me. I'm glad one of the presidents of the independent union, as DOS MP, stopped here independently and represented the union, and he probably said it all. It is certain that some medium solution, which may well be, is not the best extremes, that perhaps in health care, certain pay classes are introduced in education, where they should be stimulated by particularly undeveloped areas. It is also possible to transfer a percentage of solidarity from richer municipalities to poorer municipalities, but it is not good for a catcher. Anyone who deals with management, manufacturing, that's what they'll tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6077	There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6078	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a question for Mr. President - will he give me a warning if I say DOS is the worst or if I say you lose the next election?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6079	What's DOS, I didn't hear?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6080	You heard, Mr. President, you heard. You won't give me a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6081	No, I won't. You don't believe that either, so neither do I.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6082	It seems the only thing Mrs. Micic can do. I've already asked you once to establish a uniform practice with your vice presidents, so we don't look at the Bob who's chairing and what we need to say, what we shouldn't, what we can't, what we can't. We're always telling the truth, it just seems that Mrs. Micic is a little bit more in the way than you are, because that part of DOS is really the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6083	I expect you to move to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6084	So I want to, I'm just talking about the agenda -- what's going on in this assembly, you can see in front of the public, in direct transmission. And what happens in the Serbian government is clearly not seen in direct transmission, but we can only read from DOS newspapers, which are controlled by Zoran Djindjic, to lead one harang against Vuk Obradovic. Apparently, working on jobs as the president of one team, he ran into the ban on Zoran Djindjic, Dusan Mihajlovic or Vladan Batic, so now he needs to get rid of him. Mr. President, do they laugh at you, do MPs laugh at you, Mr. President? (From the O.R.: No, to you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6085	Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, start talking about why you called.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6086	I'm talking about what's on the agenda today. The newspapers are full of what is happening in the Serbian government. Obviously, the ministers aren't here today and not just today, but today it became clear to me why they're not here. They can't be disciplined to have everyone here at the same time, and they can't turn their backs on each other, because they don't know what's behind the hill or what's gonna happen to anyone in absentia. Therefore, do not expect ministers to visit this congregation at all. We should work so that certain laws only empower the Government, which will bring on behalf of us some sublegal acts, so that it completely counter-constitutionally allows it to be that legislative authority, and we here, i.e., here. You, the general majority, are just someone who will push buttons. We Serbian radicals do not agree to be the one who will only press buttons the way the government plays and how it would like to play. We came here to think and to criticise in the name of the people what the government is doing, as many places as there are critics. (Lowers from the O.R.: Theme. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6087	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I'm warning you, four minutes have passed, and you haven't even started talking about what you've come up with.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6088	I'm talking about the law, Mr. President, I don't know how you don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6089	Four minutes of introduction.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6090	I can have a ten-minute introduction.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6091	Please start talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6092	I'm talking about the subject, I'm talking about the law. (Lowers from the O.R.: About what law? () First of all, it is not true that this problem has not been regulated by law so far. There is a Labour Relations Act, and it regulates how salaries are paid to workers in public authorities and public services. It wasn't necessary to pass a special law, but if the government had already dared to give such a single bill for consideration, then she certainly shouldn't have done it this way. We as parliament must not allow the government to determine both the coefficients and the pay grade and to suspect how it will do so. Basically, what one law needs like this contains is exactly what -- which are the coefficients, which are paid classes, and about them should be our debate going on. Not about what all the salaries of employees or who will establish that salary, i.e. the Government or the official who manages the state bodies or the President of the Republic or the competent authority of the National Assembly, etc. Based on which parameters, which coefficient, we don't see here. This is an empty law. It is amazing that the government has dared to humiliate parliament to this extent, to refer it to a law like this. We've been humiliated here on many occasions. We are also humiliated by the presence of most of the MPs present here. Serbia has been humiliated by many who sit in this hall. (From O.R.: Theme. ) This is a problem that citizens will decide on in some of the next elections. This bill must be withdrawn from the procedure, otherwise it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6093	The People's MP Dragan Colic has the word, followed by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not a bit surprised by that. ) is that according to this agenda, there are no government representatives, because the government only thus confirms all my discussions and all the arguments that I have made so far about the inconclusiveness of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, from this pay phone. The area in which 420,000 employees work is least interesting for the government and the government's authorised representative. I see the government's representative under this bill should be Vladan Batic, but we should be a little more tolerant here. It is possible that a representative of the government, Mr. Justice Minister Vladan Batic, is probably busy forming gangs dealing with the hunt for Serb bountyed heads by the UN tribunal...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6095	Mr. Colic, for God's sake, take care of what you say, brother for God's sake.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6096	Maybe he's taking instructions from his employers somewhere. Why can the Government of the Republic of Serbia determine the complexity, responsibility (can this be the president), working conditions, titles, occupations, pay-out coefficients? Why isn't that regulated by law and not by an executive act? If the working conditions are discussed, then members of the government of the Republic of Serbia should have extremely high salaries, as the conditions of government members' work are almost impossible. They work in luxury cars, stamps "aud" and others, which include heklers, such as Justice Minister Mr Batic, while staying in Pozarevec. I read that in your DOS newspaper. They work in the conditions of scandals, affairs, such as this latest one, whose main ideologist and strategist is none other than the one who set the Federal Assembly on fire, Zoran Djindjic, because Vuk Obradovic found crime in the government's own members.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6097	For the second time, I warn you to take care of what you say. If you are not aware of this yourself, please be assured that we others are aware that you are not talking about what is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6098	I don't think the government has earned any more serious treatment from our people that it has any honor and should resign because of all this. Instead, the government needs brave and stoic to endure, with the smile of a stewardess who knows there's something wrong with the plane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6099	You've been really preparing it. The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarević has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Zivodark the Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6100	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are going to Europe - it was the slogan of DOS when it came to power. We will submit everything to the smallest law to be in line with Europe. That's how they commented, that's what they promised, and the promised law doesn't lead to Europe today, but who knows where. They've moved and taken positions, and now from those positions, they're proposing laws that sometimes border on humor. This law does not lead to Europe, because I do not know how Europe will accept a pay-out in state bodies. Perhaps someone, which is probably the Government, will have some of their own arches and measuring units that measure special efforts and working conditions so that people working in the bodies of state institutions are also paid differently. Democracy is not respected this time, so now you're going to the centralized pay system. Someone from DOS even went so far as to tell TV cameras, and this is Mr. Djindjic, that they pay government members not even needed but they should work and have the satisfaction of working in the government. One of them didn't just say who had to pay to be a member of the government, not that he was still getting paid, because it's a dick working in the government. You're talking a lot now and you're using all the different touches that come in favor of us. European wages should be applied by this law, but how do you do it, because you haven't cleared up the personnel picture yet, it's still cloudy for you, you have to set people up for you, and then you can only think about that plan. This law aims to bring about diversity, and this diversity is also transparent in Europe, and you are now going against this Europe. The first members shall be listed by the authorities and organisations covered by this proposal. Then the wages are calculated by base, coefficients and additions, and there will be problems because of these coefficients, who will determine that? The government of the Republic of Serbia determines the basis and accounting of salaries. I mentioned in the previous sentences that whoever wants to work in the government has to pay for it, because those places are historically established, so whoever wants to pay and get into that history. It's all on this top of the pyramid. Coming down, we reach cities that are bound to the vice presidents of the National Assembly. Is that in European norms too? At the end of this article 6 is autonomy and local self-government. The government's desire is to decentralised autonomy and local self-government to the level of local communities. It's an analized by this law. Do they have to equalize all the local communities? The elected and appointed persons in municipalities over 60,000 inhabitants, it is discrimination for those municipalities of 12,000, and vice versa. Then in society there are comments where anyone works, how much does he receive, etc. The government should regulate the special situation of 420,000 employees classified according to complexity and responsibility. That's the same problem in Article 5. In particular, the titles and occupations that are regulated by Article 8 should be established. The President of the Republic is also scheduled to regulate himself by this law. We know why it's all presented now. In fact, what will the President of the Republic of Salary do when he is to act as a historical subject, and we know who you propose, or who he is now as the future President of the Republic. There's no promoter today, there's no government, there's no you, because the people don't actually see you. To us you say unblemished punishment, and our people say, "It is a green grain pie." The affair over Vuk Obradovic was projected by Djindjic and his followers. It's also known why, and it's because of his radical tenacity about the discovery of crime. I just wanted to tell Mr. Jovanovic that the government was first elected to Segedin, so the government then elected you as MPs from DOS. So this is all contrary to your ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6101	The People's Messenger, Živodarka Dacin, has the word, and then the Messenger Rajko Baralić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6102	Dear President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People, this bill on salaries in state authorities and public services, which we have today, is certainly a law that has been waiting too long for all employees in the field of health, education, judiciary, culture. I'm not going to say, as far as wages in local self-government and these higher levels are concerned, it's certain that there were significant differences between the middle and the middle, but as far as I know, the previous law said that everywhere in health care was equal pay, in education, in culture, in education. The only possible variation was in the 30%, if the employer had the opportunity to, and mostly, in health care it was not possible, because we depended on the funds that were, as today, very little in the budget. I would like to say that there are very divided opinions about whether a better collective contract is already used to by now or by announced paying classes. Despite the shared opinions, a number of health workers have always been positively oriented for this, that paying classes will bring something that will significantly improve personal incomes in health care, i.e. that we, health workers, too, will climb on a scale more and get closer to those that have, at least so far, been present in our society. Clearly, it depends on the money found in the budget. We agree, we heard on several occasions, and here it is said that poverty is present and that poverty should be shared together, but the question is how. No matter what wages are wanted to increase here and in other areas, at least that's what we really expect, God forbid that in the paying classes of health care they're going to be the reference to which they're going to be reduced, perhaps in some receiving companies, to replace the missing funds in these areas. By the time word got out that this law was going to be, we had the knowledge that there were some warning strikes for an hour, of course, in those companies where the wages are far, far better than in social activity. I would like to say that, above all, as a health care worker, I look forward to definitely solving health problems and that we all expected a lot from the new government. But at the same time, I also have to say to point out one letter that came to the Health Committee, namely me as president. I'd just like to say if it's really the union's participation in the talks, because actually, there's one dilemma from the proposed law -- nowhere to be mentioned union, although I don't think anyone from the government will be able to escrow out 420,000 people who are all organized in some unions. Absolutely, there's no mention of at least some orientation of what these receipts are, which are probably waiting for us as of June 1st. The Health and Social Protection Union of Serbia is signed by President Stevan Djordjevic - they, as you have probably heard, have announced a protest rally for 15. (it is at 11 o'clock in the Union House on Tuesday), to express their dissatisfaction with the fact that both the government and the resolution ministry have not found time to talk and, in fact, to show each other what it is they want to do, to affect the improvement of the material position of health employees. He says, "In his obligation to protect employees, the Health and Social Protection Union of Serbia wants to contribute to a quality solution and access constructively. The irrational antagonism was defeated in September and December elections and has no place in the government's officials' behaviour. Previously, the declared transparency is not promoted by an attempt to secretly alter employees' rights, a unilateral act by the Ministry of Health. This was not done in Boyic's horrors either. If we recognize that the government also has the right to have children’s diseases, it will not reduce the harmful consequences of such actions. Starting from the indisputable, that MPs of the National Assembly are elected by the votes of our members and our patients, we take the right to address the Assembly committee with a request that we have balanced access and represent patients and employees, people and the state at the same level. There is only one question - whether this did not lead to a meeting between this union and the resolution ministry, which was known in advance that the Union will no longer have the right to signatories, nor the possibility to participate in the formation of payment classes and, in fact, in the personal incomes of employees here, above all, in health care." I ask you once more to think about it, because a large army of people is employed precisely in all these social activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6103	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Rajko Baralic, and the next is the MP, Mr. Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6104	Madam Vice President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, esteemed journalists... (Glass from the O.R.: Theme. The theme is that you're always out of the picture. You affirmed the principle of power-sharing during the election campaign and during the inauguration of the Prime Minister. You have suspended this principle by means of a proposed law. Among other things, and because it is not really normal, it is not logical, regardless of what can be practical, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia determines the way, determines the way and the amount of salaries of MPs of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and other elected officials who, in every sense, are higher instance, or other, different instances, do not have to be higher than the Government. Even Article 7 reads as follows: "In accordance with the act of the Government of Article 5 of this Act, the level of coefficients in the state bodies determines: 1) The Government for persons who appoints; 2) the official who manages the state authorities for employees of that body; (3) the President of the Republic, the competent authority of the National Assembly, the Government and the Constitutional Court, for employees and appointed persons in the services of those bodies". It remains unclear who determines the salary of the President of the Republic. Since the first article does not say that the Government does so, and since Article 7 also says that the Government does so, but only the President of the Republic determines the salary for its officials, then I ask you to define it. It's not the key reason I wanted to say something about the proposed law. Obviously, we've already talked about this in the adoption of some other laws, that the collective contract, as one of the most important flows of union struggle, has been suspended and payment classes are being introduced which you previously spoke of in a pesoratic context during, as you say, 10 years of difficult opposition struggles. Also, it is not clear how one or more unions will participate in the talks, in the negotiations, I apologize, for me and the negotiations - the talks. For civilized people and negotiations, there must be conversations. That's why I said so, except when these warnings are made, of course, then it can be different. There is no guarantee that the government must negotiate, but we only have the verbal promise of the former union official that it will do so. As far as local self-government is concerned, therefore, the assembly of municipalities and what they are responsible for, we have earlier suggested that the Ministry of Local Self-Government not be abolished, that it should not be united in the Ministry of Justice. I think we were right. We would probably have a minister of local self-government here today who would make opening remarks that we could normally communicate with, to face arguments, but it was a matter of your will, as it would be a matter of your will to adopt such a law. So far, municipalities have had the opportunity to choose, could be used by a republican average or municipal average. If the average was more favourable and such a situation was in the municipality of Cačak, the municipality of Gornji Milanovac and other municipalities. In this way, municipalities where the economy better stands, in which other employees earn more than others, in some similar municipalities, will not be able to use this right. This is not good and it is not fair, because local self-government cannot be viewed outside the context of the practice and the results of the enforcing in the territory for which it is responsible. As for some other things that Tomislav Nikolic spoke of and was not properly understood and wrongly earned one measure because of an unequal criterion,... And are you his lawyer, perhaps? He says Tomislav Nikolic that you are not his lawyer, God forbid. It is quite unserious to talk today about such a law as to earn half a million people, half a million citizens, of which there are probably two million inhabitants of this country, and not knowing what really is the position of the promoter, that he is not present here. Unless you think that Mr. Vuk Obradovic, who signed this bill, should not have come here today, but since he was fiercely embarrassed, he had no courage. Here, I haven't earned a warning, thank you for your attention, and I'm going to the scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6105	The word is made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic, and after him Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6106	Ladies and gentlemen, the government has come out with one legal proposal that is necessary anyway. The government has applied its own criteria to this proposal, and what is surprising is that the government takes on a huge responsibility in advance. The responsibility of the government is that of the three elements that determine the height of the salary, the government determines two. It's a base and a coefficient. And it's not essential, it might be normal, but the government reserves this right as a discretionary right, a right that is not available or expressed in this law, and it won't even be proposed to this Parliament, let's see on the basis of which parameters these bases are calculated. What are these parameters? As is said, the coefficients are calculated on the basis of some parallel parameters, i.e. based on these five basic classes or categories, so they should be given an explanation of which is the basis. Of course, she'll change. We assume that this base will be real, that it will come from the average income in the Republic, but the law needs to say what they are and what parameters they are. What the Government is, in this case, not a proponent, but a representative of the government in front of the parliamentary group, is that the government will try to be as fair as it is when it comes to paying off those financed from the budget. It is absurd to argue that the Government will be so just, for the simple reason that in the very proposal for a law in article 6, coefficients, or criteria on the basis of which coefficients are calculated, are not realistic and are not fair. You can take whatever example you want, but in any case, the government has to have a basic etalon, a basic function, based on which, comparing with the others, determines the salaries. If it's a local self-government then it has to be a standard, if it's a national MP, then it has to be a basic measure. It was obviously done here by the principle of who has more influence or who has more medialy left influence on the majority of the DOS parliamentary group, so, for example, in the first group, the authorities of territorial autonomy and the city of Belgrade. Unlike them in the third group, for example, the presidents of municipalities are over 60,000 inhabitants. Of course, in this law, as usual, the government said that criteria are responsibility, complexity, and working conditions. If these are real criteria, and it's not a criterion on which this categorization of the size of municipalities would come out, then it shouldn't have made this much difference. Of course, it was compared to the wages and receipts of the MPs. These are rare examples in Europe, especially for you, gentlemen, who are saying that we are joining Europe with legal projects. Where did you see any country in Europe that the president of the circuit assembly or the local kabadiah, as your presidents, the mayors, like to say, is above the MPs in their parliaments? Nowhere, gentlemen. It's nowhere in Europe. There are honours and rewards everywhere in Europe to be found in the republican parliament, but in Europe it is regulated. You're here trying to place the parameters and comparison of the MP as approximately the lowest number. Below, the presidents, or elected, were appointed persons of municipalities below 60,000 inhabitants. I quote this to you on purpose as an example, because obviously there was a trap, and the government pre-calculated that we would argue here, so the MPs would defend their interests, and the presidents of the municipalities of their interests, and those who are most vulnerable don't have the opportunity to say from this pay phone, and these are the employees of the administration, they're all those who belong to a group of 460,000 employees who are funded from the budget. Instead of keeping this little bit of work left in the administration, professional people, you put them quite literally in the last category with this bill of law. Everything that's defined, everything that's written in the law, in this law that you're proposing, which I assume you're going to adopt as well as all of this, as a voting machine, is going to be a government obligation. All the stories that this will later be compensated by different adjustments fall into the water. The government can do that, but by law, it doesn't have to. So if you took care, as some here point out, in the first place and in those who are employed in education, they had to go into the higher category, regardless of what the basis is, regardless of how disrupted the coefficients are, but at least you had to protect them in the legal proposal, don't put them in the lowest and last group. What's their base gonna be? The foundation of educational workers will be the one that Gasa Knezevic in a break between the two drinkings tells teachers. Is that going to be the basis? He's the government, he's the government's representative. Blacksmith, what are you holding your head for? I know it's hard for you, but he's got a point about it, my Kovacevic, and there's no cure for him. What is essential and where is the greatest injustice, and where the government will not engage in the reckoning and will not regulate the law, these are public and public utility companies. Look what the absurd will be. Let's put aside this injustice, but we'll get to one absurdity. An expert man, extremely useful and necessary for the work of administration in a local self-government municipality, will be paid much, much less, as will the president of the municipality, than, for example, the director of a public utility or public enterprise, such as the market, the Public Enterprise "Parking" or the Institute or the public enterprise of building land. When you look at it, it's under the authority of local self-government. The local self-government under this law should wait for elected and appointed persons to determine the coefficient and have their hands tied. The capital, or salary increase, will continue to be where the greatest injustices are. Or leave a local self-government, best example: where the government's direct authority is in public enterprises such as "Serbishum", Elektroprivreda and the oil industry of Serbia and others. The government instead of prescribing the criteria and saying - gentlemen, your maximum cannot be above the reception of the MP or vice president of the Parliament or the Prime Minister, and that difference in the name of solidarity will be transferred to pay for the personal incomes of educational workers. No, the government won't engage here. The government here lets collective agreements be signed, a collective contract will be signed to verify the union, of course the union from that public enterprise, and there will be enormously high personal incomes, i.e. profits, and here where this little church is financed from the budget will be unevenly and unequally distributed. Don't, gentlemen, at all costs hurry with the proposals, especially with the adoption of the law. It's better to think about it and pass a good law. Since the government intends to form payment classes on the basis of this law, we will face major problems, or you who are in the Government, will have major problems, and these problems will not pass all of us sitting in the Assembly. It is better to think about and make a good programme, a good legislative proposal that will be and how a good basis for paying classes, so go to parliament for parliament to adopt this. Countless examples are to support all of this that we Serbian radicals are always talking about, countless examples we can give. For example, for the first group where the coefficients for the authorities of territorial autonomy and the city of Belgrade are highest to the coefficient for the calculation and payment of salaries of vice-presidents of the National Assembly. Here's, say, what an injustice, the freshest example, Milan St. Protic, who was temporarily employed as president of Belgrade, should have paid with his merits, with his work, such as the vice-president of the Assembly, who neatly warns Serbian Radical Party MPs and has tried to throw them out, regardless of what she does, is still an injustice. Or, the president of the Autonomous Province Assembly, which has a much higher salary than the president of the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian Prime Minister, to whom the salary serves to promote his autonomous ideas along with others sitting at the chair table. Still, there are obvious examples that we can see for ourselves, and you too will understand. You have a man until he says his full name and last name, so you do not understand this affair that Djindjic has set up Vuka Obradovic until names are said.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6107	The People's Messenger Joca Arsic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6108	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill of this law is trying to regulate matter, as some claim, which has not been arranged so far. I'm a little different-minded. It seems to me that a lot of this matter is trying to regulate this law has already been regulated in the field of public services and services in public authorities, at least, labour laws or other sublaws. What is a problem with the adoption of this law is a fundamental problem, i.e. an irresponsible government relationship with this assembly, because, as we have heard several times, there are no representatives of the government who would defend or explain this law, and in the signature is named Vuk Obradovic and Minister of Justice Vladan Batic. Apparently, they have other, more pressing jobs than what they've proposed to this assembly with this bill of defense. It is obvious that they have other things to do, which shows one ignoring relationship and cannot bring this congregation into full trust with the legislator of this law, according to the solutions offered in this law and the matter that needs to settle life issues of 420 or 430,000 people. This mentions different data, the material says it's 420,000. What bothers me personally is that the government is trying to put itself above the Assembly by this law, above the largest legislative body, which changes constitutional solutions if the government chooses the Assembly by this bill. I think we'll probably expect one such legal project in the new bill of elections, then we'll choose a government that will appoint a parliament and president of the Republic, because it determines their salary by this law. Whoever chooses you will give you a salary. Instead of being a reverse system, this assembly should regulate the coefficients and relationships that will regulate this matter by amending Article 5, as well as the members of the 3rd and 7th, and that the Government will then arrange it for the competent ministries, for the resolution authorities, for the apparatus that covers and works for the government and public services, in the state bodies, with this being in line with the coefficients set by the Assembly. This is how we have this proposal from the beginning from the middle. The first is arranged by the president of the city of Belgrade and his salary relatively to the vice-president of the Republic, the vice-president of the Serbian Parliament, and further everything goes towards an independent adviser in the government of the Republic of Serbia who edits the office apparatus. On this other side, we have no one to determine the salary of the President of the Republic, who pays the President of the Assembly, and who pays the Prime Minister and the Ministers in the Government. It's said here that the government will edit it. Please, the government can't edit what's none of her business. It's none of your business, 'cause this is where things get mixed up. They mix so that the organ that chooses the other organ gives more power than it belongs to, and that is the basic problem in this law. If we gave in the amended proposals of Articles 3, 5 and 7 of the coefficients and the basics where the Assembly would determine from the President of the Republic to the bottom, then we would have arranged relations and we could clearly see what this looks like next. Another limiting factor exists, and no one mentions it. Please, we have brought the budget of the Republic of Serbia. He explained everything in pay and pay grade and gave frames. We can only make these solutions in the budgets of the ministries and public services budgets, pay further, but we don't know what to start from. Like I said, we start in the middle. And, another very important thing. We hereby delete Article 9(1). The law on special rights and duties of the President of the Republic, which we adopted and published in the "Official Messenger" 11 since 2001. That right we gave him, that he has four or five average personal incomes as the basis of his salary, is now being erased by this law. Like I said, a month ago, we had this law on the agenda. Why did we give such a solution to the amendments to the Law on the Rights of the President of the Republic? And, in the end, it's safe to arrange this matter. It is necessary to edit in one democratic way but in this order that I have proposed, not underestimating the MPs of this assembly or those chosen by the direct will of the Serbian citizens, and the government and all authorities are elected by means of a direct path. So here's the system that's going to fix the whole relationship, but like I said, from the beginning. Please, because this is how we introduce each other's practices. We all say we brought democracy. I don't think we've even unpacked these kind of legal projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6109	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6110	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to point out one political fact that is becoming increasingly evident to everyone in Serbia, and it speaks of the ingenuities and prerogatives of the National Assembly's authorities becoming increasingly in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as the back of the superior, i.e. the highest legal act of our country. In addition to the fact that the National Assembly is losing its dignity by taking away the word of Tomislav Nikolic in ten seconds, with three warnings and for nothing, except by showing that there are certain parliamentary groups that should be removed from the side or that should have incomparably less rights than the parliamentary rights of the other groups in the National Assembly, I would point out that this law directly violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and what is problematic in the proposed text of government law. I expected the president of the Assembly to react to this fact as he reacted in his own time to the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which it introduced monopoly on imports of oil derivatives, business of some other excise goods and so on. He was right at the time and today he would be right, but his intervention and the intervention of most others this time was missing. Namely, art. 82. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the highest legal act in the hierarchy of legal acts, says the National Assembly regulates its work and organisation, way of achieving the rights and duties of MPs. In order not to be misunderstood, the government may give people’s MPs in the National Assembly an incomparably greater income than those set by the National Assembly itself to its MPs. But this is about the direct denial of the legislative authority, the direct denial of one who should not only control the executive power, but one who should make all political decisions, all the measuring decisions, and the government as one of the executive authorities, because we have a bicephal executive authority, and a decision to implement. Here, unfortunately, we have one defacto change, if you want constitutional jurisdiction and ingenuity, above all, the fact that the government assumes on itself what cannot possibly be in its jurisdiction. In no case can such decisions be and cannot fall within the prerogatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or of any other executive body of authority, President of the Republic, etc. It is quite obvious that the law governing the way in which wages, supplements, fees and other receipts, selected, appointed and employed persons can only be passed by the National Assembly, which should determine, if you are already speaking in the text of the law on payment classes, to determine which payment classes, which are ranges, from the lowest to the highest incomes, depending on the complexity and scope of the transactions being carried out. It's something that determines the National Assembly. It's her legislative authority and it's something she has to do. So the fundamental difference and our fundamental observation is that something that as an ingenuity or jurisdiction belongs to the National Assembly goes to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the opposite of even the basic principles and principles of logic, as sciences of correct opinion. In fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia has given itself the right to establish the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, but at the same time, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has given itself the right, therefore, and has put itself in charge, that it determines the level of the coefficient in state bodies. Now, there are very vague things in article 7. The bill that the government has brought here before the MPs, which is to determine alternatively who has the right and the possibility to determine the coefficients. So it's not cumulative anymore, it's alternative determination. Again, we do not know when, at which point, and in which case someone will have the right to make a decision or in what way it will be determined. These are primarily the Government, then the official who manages state authorities, for organ employees, and the third is the President of the Republic, the National Assembly, the Government and the Constitutional Court, for employees and appointed persons in the services of those bodies. So does this mean, since this is not quite clear from the bill, that the President of the Republic will determine the pay coefficients for all those employed in the Presidency of the Republic of Serbia, all professional services, all those belonging to that body, will this be done by the Constitutional Court, will it be by any body or body of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Why isn't all this so specific about the law? It is said here that we will have reform laws, that we will have democratic political changes, and I would say that this has nothing to do with reforms, because nothing has been changed by this law, except that everything has been said and put into the hands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that should decide everything and everything, and what needs to be decided and what needs to be done, but also what it cannot and should not decide. It can't decide, not because we want to kidnap these powers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because we don't like the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not because we are a parliamentary minority or opposition political party in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but for the simple reason that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not allow it in any way. And that's something that I don't think can be ignored. I would also say that in this way we will lead to the creation of the power of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the Government will become the most important state body, incomparably more important, not only in the enforcement of the law, but also in the creation, creation and implementation of the law, and from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but also from all other bodies with which it must share, if you will, even the rights of the executive authority, because it is not the only executive body in the Republic, but it has taken over all possible powers and becomes one real, as once a party Leviathan, today the state Leviathan, who decides on everything, does not allow anyone to interfere with its powers and no one can influence its work. What I'd like to point out is the fact that we don't have a proposing representative here again. We expected that, since we had the case today, we had changed the agenda, i.e., we left certain points for later, due to the inability of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to attend (in which case we were talking about the Minister of Health of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who had some more important work than the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia) but it is obvious that some of the other ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia had more work to do than represent government acts in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Because, at the very least, they don't care what the MPs say, they don't care much about it, they almost don't care about it, and they don't think it's important or they don't think they're gonna hear anything smart. It may not, but it is the elemental order to show respect, to respect the dignity of this high house, and to listen to everything their political opponents are going to say first and foremost, because I suppose the parliamentary majority won't hear any criticism, because they wouldn't even go out with a bill like this. No Mr. Batic, no Mr. Obradovic. For Mr. Obradovic, we assume what it is ( since he has signed, as vice president, this bill), after these affairs that have been discussed, although I am always skeptical to see what kind of media hack is being conducted and it is obvious that some things have been set up, it is obvious that he has entered some... I'm not saying everything, nor am I going to protect him for what someone might have done somewhere, but it's obvious that it's about the fact that he's been banned by some representatives of political parties, representatives of the government, above all, the Prime Minister, but that's a topic for another time. I would just like to call on the parliamentary majority not to accept the violation of the Constitution as the highest legal act of this country. It is not, therefore, the rights of the MPs of the people, but whether the MPs will have a higher salary, whether they will have a higher or lower coefficient, it is something that we are opening Pandora's box, this time across, and we have done it so discreetly and secretly before. So this time we open Pandora's box, I'd say, wide. There is the possibility that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will take, as perfectly normal, the right to violate the Constitution on a regular basis, to take on ever greater and wider powers of government into its own hands, a growing prerogative government, which is something that will completely violate the principle of division of power, as something that represents the fundamental political essence of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the back of the superior, and I think it will be a catastrophic mistake for our country in general, perhaps even with unspeakable consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6111	There's a word Mr. Miroslav Martic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 98th House has been violated who says in his first position that the speaker can only speak of a matter that is on the agenda. I respect your tolerance and patience, especially when it comes to Members of the Radical Party. They are constantly violating this provision of the Rules of Procedure. Here, even the SPS MPs are laughing at their discussions here, but I can't understand that they have objections to why there are no government representatives here, 80% of their time is not about the agenda, it's not about the points being discussed, and then they're asking the question -- why isn't there a government representative here? Yeah, that's why there isn't. And by the way, MPs understand themselves in the economy, and in the right, and in the medicine, and in the health care, they understand everything, and they appear on all counts, and they constantly abuse this Rules of Procedure. 80% of their time is a time that has nothing to do with the agenda at the Assembly meeting. I will take a characteristic example - MP Veljkovic Miroljub is here cowardly because there are no representatives of the government, he spoke almost 5 minutes outside of the agenda, and when he finished the story, he talked about how much amendments and additions to the Law on Marriage and Family mattered, and then he left the session. And in the end, each of the MPs of the Radical Party who answered - don't get upset at all, you're here all the time telling the same story. And finally, Mr. President of the Assembly, I don't think it's right that you've allowed the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party to finish each one's story in terms of comments that Vuku Obradovic has put all this into place. I think you're insulting our fellow MPs with this, and if I were Vuk Obradovic, I'd imagine why the Radical Party defends me. [[National Ambassador Alexander Vukic requests replica]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-10-0.u6113	Mr. Wolf will get a replica, just to answer. You know, you pointed out a violation of the Rules of Procedure, sir, do you agree that you violated it yourself by the way you spoke? You agree. Then you don't need my answer. I would ask, since there are such discussions, and perhaps once again and perhaps for the last time to say - anyone who thinks that under the circumstances such as the session is otherwise held here, I ask you, fold the tabak, submit a motion to resolve the President of the Assembly, and that will solve the problem in the simplest way. If you think you can run the session differently, then it's the easiest thing to do. But as long as everyone breaks the Rules of Procedure, I don't think there's any other way. Here you go. (Employer Alexander Vukitch exits for the pay phone.) [[jamour in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, I'm asking you to finish the session, don't be impatient. We need to interrupt the session. You're right, we'll interrupt the session, the replica will be tomorrow. No quorum, we interrupt the session. If anyone likes this picture of Parliament, I accept it. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 129 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum, please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Ljubisa Djokovic, Mihajl Markovic, Željko Tomic, Ratimir Žirčević, Milan Radulovic, Zivića Predojev, Jakov Stamenković, Vjeljin Pavić, Milutin Svečinović, Branislav Pomoričko, Mark Jakšić, Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Prorokovic, Vladan Jovičić, Vladan Jovičić, Karol Kermeci, Radic Jokovic, Bratislava Đurić, Momčil Trajković, Petar Misic, Ion Cisamaš, Milos Radivojčević, Istvan Išpanović, Juhas Atili, Dragor Hiber, Miroslav Martic, Pal Šandor, Boško Ristić and Zoran Boštić. For the morning - Dragan Shormaz, Nedi Arneric and Siniši Mitrovica. Only afternoon away - Branislav Kovacevic, Milorad Stanulov, Milan Milosavljevic and Radomir Naumov. The delay of Natasha Micic has been announced. By the way, it's not that I've granted leave, it's just that I've been informed he's not coming. I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to be attended by the President, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move on to the 16th item of the agenda: -LAW OF OBLIGATIONS IN THE COUNTRY OF State AUTHORITIES AND PUBLIC SERVICES (continuation) The word has a folk MP Mr. Vukic, a replica from yesterday.
