ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3536	Due to the conditions in which it is being attracted, I believe the proposal is very well-founded because the conditions of adjudication for cobwebs in Serbia are difficult. That is why it was important to accept this amendment, because I think it would have to accept a deal with tax administrations that the cobwebs would have had in fulfilling their obligations to the tax authorities. This has been proposed because there have been talks with representatives of independent activities and taxpayers who are depreciating their obligations. That's their proposal. This wasn't just given to fill the time. This is part of the electoral body that helped bring this government to power. So take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3537	Anyone else answer for a word? He has the word Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3538	I want to make a brief note. It would obviously be better in our legislative system, especially in the IRS, that we can achieve space for discussion and discretion. But as for the cobwebs -- I'm not talking about some individual examples -- most of them worked, earned and paid taxes. However, as many speakers mentioned yesterday, one reason for changing this flat-rate taxation is that many abuses have occurred. I think at this point, given our country's arrangements, what the equipment and ability of the Republic Public Revenue Administration would not be a good time to get into greater discretion from the Republic of the Public Revenue Administration or the State so that it can account for taxes, especially in this domain. On the one hand, it would be contradictory -- as far as the spiders are concerned, we're trying to establish order, and on the other hand we're opening up one space that seems to me, at this point, is not suitable for discretion and, God forbid, for some abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3539	Is there anyone else calling for word? Nobody. I am putting Mamula's amendment to the vote. For 73, against 99, she abstained four, did not vote 14, a total of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 42, paragraph 5, the amendment was submitted by MP George Mamul. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 78, against 97, the 7. did not vote 8, a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 43 of the Fourth Amendment by MP George Mamul. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word Mr. Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3540	Keeping a business book is the essence of a flat tax. The amendment was proposed because talks were held with representatives of the taxi association, the lawyer's chambers, independent craftsmen, so you know that it was the identification of the electoral body, which voted for this government and helped it come to power. Don't think the benefits of the state always seem like justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3541	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 90, against 92, abstained 5, did not vote 9, a total of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, George Mamul, submitted to the 51st Amendment. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the MP withdrew his amendment. Member of the 53rd Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3542	I have submitted an amendment to Article 53, where points 1, 2 and 5 are said to be exempted from this article. Namely, it's about patents, small patents and technical improvements. In that sense, they are exempt. As I said yesterday, these newspapers are practical things and are applied in practice, in production, so when they are confirmed in practice - only then comes taxation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3543	Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 133, there were no abstentions, there were no 12 votes, a total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 56, paragraph 1 of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Pelevic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3544	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Vice Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 56 which should be changed and read: "For the implementation of the educational programmes of fun and original folk music, as well as newly-compromised music based on original folk music, which is determined by the competent authority of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Serbia - 45% of gross income. For newly-compromised folk music representing a ham and spine, according to the competent Ministry of Culture, costs are not recognised." I explained that there is a huge difference between folk music that relies on original music, original folk music and newly combined music, which really represents spine and ham and that we can hear on many television channels. Also, the concept of folk music is very wide. I don't see any reason for solo singing and serious music to be released 45% and fun only 10%. I can't accept that fun music is so unquality as serious music, or solo singing. If the government intends to impose another culture on the Serbian people, then that's another thing. But, as you know, solo singing and serious music, which I usually appreciate very much, is not rooted in our people. We also see it after visiting concerts of serious music and solo singing. So I don't understand why, say, jazz, rock and roll, or some other kind of fun music is so demoted by this law, compared to solo singing and serious music. Indeed, we will never convince the Serbian people to listen to solo singing and I don't understand why singing solo is so much better than singing fun music. Also, what I'm saying is that the concept of folk music is also a very broad term. It's original music, it's music based on original, folk music, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we have newly combined folk music that represents real ham and spine. The tapes and records that are recorded by selling Dad's field, or selling his father's tractor, or selling a few acres of property -- that singer will never fill any hall and will never sell any tape. But on the other hand, we also disrespect Leka Lukic, Tozovac, Toma Zdravkovic and all those who represent part of our Serbian culture. The real folk song, or the original song, or the one that relies on folk music and the greats of our folk's original music, we can't compare it to those who sing in the style of "You're gone, charm you're not." That's funny, but that's exactly how it is. This law compares them and puts them in the same basket. I think it's not good and it doesn't make any difference, and there's no reason for 45% to be free from the tax solo singing, and only 10% of the fun music that's part of our culture and our original folk music, which is also part of our culture. I ask the MPs to take this as truly well-intentioned, because it is our culture. Our culture will never become solo singing and serious music, part of it, I appreciate it, but we are Serbs and we have our own music. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3545	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting MP Pelevic's amendment to the vote. For 82, against 93, the two abstentions, not voting 11, a total of 188 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment to Article 58 was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the amendment promoter want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3546	Just for a little while. The rate of income tax here is very different. What's this about? There are different categories of singing, patents, etc. These differences in these tax bases, for example, work, one patent can also be worth $5,000, and some can be worth 1,000 dollars, and the base of income tax... It's 20%. I suggested that it be 15%, to make it even.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3547	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I suggest that we declare the amendment of MP Lazar Marjanski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 58, contrary to 134, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, a total of 199 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 58th Amendment were submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic and Djordje Mamula. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3548	The tax rate of 20% is not in line with the Constitution. There's a difference between 14% and 20%. This is about authors, or copyright owners and industrial property rights. Instead of stimulating authorial creation, the 20% rate is maintained, it means continuing the policy of continuity with these attitudes about the tax rate. That's why I think we should accept this proposal and make it 14%.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3549	Does Mr. Pelevic want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? He has the word Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3550	In principle, I think the moment will come when we can do all sorts of finesse in our tax code. However, if we look at the practice of past years in our country, every time something that makes a big difference between different types of profit arises. Believe me, we tested those ideas. Surely, if we change that rate and it's different from other types of income, everyone told us in advance that a lot of things will overqualified into so-called. copyright, and perhaps even worse, many people who have a normal job, where taxes and contributions are paid, cooks and pensions, are likely to be fired, to be transferred to some so-called a new independent status, to be paid only by those copyrights. That's the first problem. The other thing, we talked about yesterday, it's not enough just to look at one step and say it's a whole bust. As far as farmers are concerned, 20% of them do not show what a real intervention is in that category of population. In fact, when you look at the whole situation, then we see that it's a lot smaller. It's important here that we have the same rate of arrest, so that something doesn't overqualified. But to see the specificity of the situation, we already have in this order the normized costs that allow that category to be reduced from about 7% to 16%, maximum. So I don't think it would be good at this point, when we go into simplification, transparency and honesty in the system, to introduce the possibility of re-qualifying things, to open other valves. We can therefore resolve this situation through normal costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3551	He has the word Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3552	Ladies and gentlemen, this government first introduced a 20% tax on books. And this is how the publishers failed. (loud from the O.R.): That's not true. Throw out this clerk who throws it to me. The MPs have the right to pay me, and she can't. (Gorica Mojovic: I said it wasn't true. ) Gorica Mojovic, ideological secretary of the Alliance of Communists Belgrade, for culture. It's all clear now. Ladies and gentlemen, a 20% book tax has been introduced. The books of Ivo Andric, Milos Crnjanski, Borislav Pekic, Dobrice Cosic, Dragoslav Mihajlovic, Antonija Isaković, etc. are now being taxed. In addition, a tax item of 20% is introduced on copyright and industrial property rights. What was the case before, in the communist system? First, publishing work was completely tax-free. Then Tito's time was taxed on a ham, so it was administered in the sphere of culture, but in a very liberal way. There was a Republic Committee on Culture, which submitted one copy of the published book, and it thus pro-forms, gave everyone the solution to being tax-free, unless it was notorious pornography or something like pornography. Shundu succumbed exclusively to pornography, and not written but only pornography in photographs. Now you've taxed all the books. Instead of undermining copyright rights under the same item, under which they tax regular earnings from employment, which is 14%, or reduce compared to that tax, because a very small percentage of the population is able to deal with intellectual creation, whether it is scientists, writers, innovators, inventors of patents and other people whose intellectual rights are protected. You're simply trying to contain every desire and motivation for material reasons for people to deal with this kind of creation. Of course, you can't contain all creation, because there are people who are able and that are starving to create. But you're making it worse for the general conditions of intellectual creation, and you didn't stand up for it in the election campaign. And it is contrary to that program of yours with which you went forth before the people, promising him golden hills and valleys.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3553	You will receive the right to a replica, and then, Minister Djelic. (Tomislav Nikolic, from place: She recognized herself by function. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3554	We'll talk about it when they come to the agenda of the former function and who did what in the past. I must say, it is obvious that some MPs are very consciously causing a public confusion. At the last meeting of the Assembly, we adopted the Law on Transport Tax. In point 11, books, publications of interest in science and culture, are exempt from sales taxes. What has caused some confusion in the interpretation of the Ministry of Finance, is that it will have to adopt a special regulation that will entail criteria on which books and publications will be released from the importance of science, culture, etc. Until that regulation begins to apply, taxes are paid. In doing so, I must say, the most confusing are those who, in some sense, might be considered merchants. No one is talking about this: the highest participation in the price of a book has exactly the margins, or use. In negotiations with individual publishers, i.e. bookstores, we have reached some agreement, primarily the thinkative representatives of the Committee on Culture of the Serbian Parliament, which in co-operation with the Ministry of Finance prepared this amendment, which was adopted under the Transport Tax Act. Many bookstores have accepted that the burden of rebates, meanwhile, until such a regulation is passed, is taxed. It means that book prices don't increase. The fact that some are concerned that the magazines of the country's type, "The Great Serbia", etc. will now be under the auspices of the expert commission of the Ministry of Culture, which will assess whether it will be taxed with 20% or not, we will discuss it. As far as the law is concerned, I'd like to say something about this law that's on the agenda today, and to take advantage of the opportunity not to make a mistake: 20% of the income tax is being talked about. In Article 56, it is very clear what the normised costs are on the copyright fee, so it is not true that the total copyright fee is taxed by 20%. You have a standard cost of 65, 55. So 35 to 40% of the total fee is taxed by 20%, which gives a figure of 11-12%. I'm sorry some people here don't or don't know how to count. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3555	The word has Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3556	I would like to add a few facts to what the MP mentioned and to respond partially to what MP Borislav Pelevic said earlier. In our system, like in all countries, we have rates even after the normized costs. Let me give you a few facts about what that brings. If you look at it, you will see that as far as culture is concerned, and we have compared ourselves with many countries in the environment and in the West, and as far as taxes are concerned, we are very mild to that segment, and that's good. I think the culture in these terrible years that we've survived, one of the foundations that's been best supported, and it seems to me, although I haven't been here all the time, helped to survive. That's why we have such standardized costs where the vat is actually paying an effective rate. In Article 56, these are copyrights, and in copyright we have a selective rate of 7%, painting 9%, if you're looking at authors and literary works it's 10% tax total, if you look at translations it's 11%, and in the end, if you look at estradius, Leka Lukić and all those I'm proud of, it's 18% through those normized costs. If we look at the economic strength of those who do, it seems to me that it's not quite inappropriate, it seems reasonable.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3557	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 87, against 106, one abstention, did not vote 7, a total of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted the amendment to Article 58. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3558	As usual, the minister did not say anything, and this lady who spoke before the minister said such a nebulose - simply, like most DOS MPs, and did not read these bill proposals. Ma'am, in Article 52, it reads loud and clear - the income from copyright is considered a fee made by the obligor on the basis of: in point 1: literary, scientific, professional, publicist and other works, studies, reviews and so on. So read it. If you're already going out for this pay phone, at least read the bill and talk here competently. Dear People's MPs, the promoter wants to tax this law with 20%, it must be known for the public, the following categories of people, listen, writers, scientific and professional publications, drama artists, musicians, painters, cartographers, lecturers, actors, and not to list any further. So, the proposer of this law wants to tax copyright with 20%. He wants to practically tax the spiritual product of a nation with 20%. That must be known. Is it possible for a patriotic and responsible government to propose? Of course he can't. This government isn't like that. That's completely obvious. Then, the legislator wants 20% to tax patents and technical improvements, or, as the bill puts it, all the rights of so-called industrial property. Stimulately, there's nothing. It means that gifted people, who deal with such things, are taxed by 20%. If by any chance Nikola Tesla were alive, living in this Serbia, he would not be able to charge taxes to this government. I suggested that this rate of income tax on copyright and industrial property rights be reduced from 20% to 5%, and that Mrs Neda Arneric attends, and we see since this new assembly meeting began, that she does not usually attend this meeting. I'm sure your colleagues would support this amendment. So I suggested that it go from 20% to 5%. Since he's not here, you can see how interesting this is. I'm also sure this university professor, Stevan Lilic, will not support me. For reasons he doesn't even write, gentlemen. He mostly overwrites them from the other one, so he doesn't care.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3560	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an even better proposal, to tax on copyright and rights arising from related rights, with only 5%. A moment ago, Gorica Mojovic brought out some nebuloses here that had nothing to do with the truth. First, she was the all-powerful ideologist of the SK Belgrade, when I was banned from the 7 books, by only calling the public prosecutor from the City Committee and saying "no". (From the gym: 'Cause of the ham. Like a ham, it is. All that's against you is a ham, but that ham will come to you in a political sense, don't let God in the other one, so that Chad doesn't move right away. Furthermore, here Gorica Mojovic says the Ministry of Science or the Ministry of Culture will form an expert commission. No, this is what the Treasury is supposed to do. Secondly, you are the top censors who will decide what science is, what culture is, what is ham, what is spine. Who are you to decide that? What are your criteria? Only ideologically. Just now, Gorica Mojovic has publicly announced that she will only have ideological criteria. What does the SRS issue? Publishing the Big Serbia newspaper, you're in a hurry to tax it. You've moved a little bit, because Greater Serbia shares free citizens. So you won't have anything to tax. Next, please? DOS is touching us. Furthermore, the SRS publishes a scientific journal that bothers you, which is the "Serbian Freedom Thought", because we've revealed what kind of crime you're dealing with. But that magazine is also shared for free, thank God, so you won't have anything to tax there either. This is where you discovered your motives. You will tax and choke everything that is not your will, and all the publishers and bookstores and all the other intellectual creators will be in your hands at all times, because they will be terrified of you. As soon as they object to you, their intellectual work will be subject to taxation. This is the essence of your idea, your concepts of action in the scientific and cultural sphere, in the overall sphere of intellectual creation. It was taught by Gorica Mojovic in SK, when she lit and burned with a Serbian intellectual and cultural scene, especially in Belgrade. She's going through DOS now. That's the policy of the entire DOS. Obviously, if it weren't for that, you wouldn't be going out with a bill like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3561	The word has a National MP, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3562	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not the subject of this assembly session of preservation of the cultural values of our society. We could talk about trying to re-establish those traditional cultural values, those cultural values that never had the chance, during the period of rule of the parties of the previous regime, to live in our society. Anyway, we're dealing with facts. This tax only taxed parts of income generated on behalf of copyright or income obtained on behalf of another intellectual labor, certainly not all income. So it is very clear and precise in the mentioned members, quoted here by Minister Djelic, where taxation is made, whether it is the means achieved through copyright or intellectual work. So we deal with facts, and we leave cultural values to the Ministry of Culture, which is why. In any case, if the ministry doesn't do what needs to be done, citizens will bring an adequate court on it. So, if we can get back to the topic of today's session and try this job to be done in the most concrete way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3563	If no one answers the word, I will put the amendments of MP Miroljub Veljkovic to the vote. For 59, against 132 abstentions, two did not vote 8, a total of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Jovan Deretic submitted to the 59th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3564	Dear Mr. President, dear fellow MPs, I have submitted an amendment to this member for a simple reason to correct one mistake. There is no financial consequences, nothing changes under this law, but it corrects one oversight. In fact, revenue from copyright and industrial property rights, which the obligor - author or owner of industrial property has achieved for a work that he has produced for more than one year, when determining income, is divided, at the request of the obligor, into as many equal parts as the years of work have been created, and not for more than five years. You know that no stronger scientific work has been created in five years. The deadline for all more serious scientific works is approximately 6, 7, 8 or 10 years. So I suggested that from five years of age to ten years, if this government has not recognised anything to the scientific creators, let it acknowledge at least one reality, which is the length of the creation of scientific works. I've been working on the book "Serbia, People and Race" for 20 years. You'll say it's an exception and the exceptions don't make laws. That's right. There is no exception that in one serious scientific work it lasts eight to ten years. On the other hand, I warned at the previous meeting of the Assembly that too much tax was determined on the incomes of copyright and written and speech. They said they taxed the book with 20%. That's not true. The book was taxed at 60%. The donor pays 20%, the printer pays 20% of what the printing book, the publisher pays 20%, and that's 60% in total and plus the author 20%. This taxation has forced publishers to close the door almost. So the house Nolit, which you all know well, announced that it would have to, in order to meet the new tax obligations, each month to sell one bookstore or room. It's the same case with other publishers. There is even worse than this -- the Serbian government is introducing censorship. We thought that the time had passed and that there would never be censorship in Serbia again. Serbian government agents go by bookshops and say the works are withdrawn from sales, as their content does not match the new political course. That's what happened in Rad's bookstore and check if you don't believe it. Gentlemen, I thought what was done at the time of Walter Weiss' dictatorship, but Joseph Broz's alias, would never happen again in Serbia. Now we have a new situation. This entire section of four was copied from their predecessors from word to word. Even their predecessors, who they like a lot to criticise, didn't have much to hear about culture. To them culture served as an ornament on banquets, this government culture serves as an object of taxation. What do they mean, destroying the Serbian book? They want to import it from Brussels. What kind of policy is this towards Serbian culture? I guess they think we don't need culture, that we don't need a book, that authors and scientists need to be taxed instead of encouraging. This isn't durable and this has to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3565	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3566	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment by Dr. Deretic is good and should be accepted, and I can testify that what Mr. Deretic said is true, that it has already begun to remove certain inappropriate books from Belgrade's bookstores. All that is against mondialism, which is against the NATO Pact and which is dedicated to Serbian national consciousness, history, pride and dignity, is inappropriate for DOS rule. There are scientists who spend their whole lives doing a great scientific work, such as Vujaklia, whose dictionary of foreign expressions and concepts is unconquerable, such as Vladimir Dvornikovic, who wrote several books, but is one fundamental – the characteristic of Jugoslovena. One who's spent his whole life writing a fundamental piece comes into a situation that you admit to him that he's only been doing it for five years, which is completely missed. When you burned to kidnap intellectual creators to fill the budget, then it's clear to the people what the country is like, because if we wanted to kidnap like you, we could have kidnapped before. Every government is kidnapping, but we're not nearly as close as you're about to kidnap. As far as Gorica Mojovic is concerned, which is bothered by "Great Serbia", "Great Serbia" press and scientific works. It has been published as a special edition of Vladimir Putin's book, Batric Jovanovic's book "Crnagorci about itself", a special edition on the scientific work of Professor Laza Kostic, a special edition on the historical role of Colonel Veselin Misite, etc., a whole series of special editions. Among them is the Protocol of the Sionic Wises, since that book is constantly being attacked, and no one can read it, at least 5,000 copies that intellectuals read it, see what is being attacked and why it is being attacked. So, you've been a little wrong about your grades. You can say again that this is a ham, but it will show that your intellectual consciousness is a ham. It's a real ham. For you, ham is all that is ideologically inadequate, not what is worthless, and in that we differ. As far as the Democratic Party is concerned, you've printed the party newspapers. The newspaper was called "Democracy", and you remained in debt to ABC - Glass, 30 million dinars in 1997. That debt hasn't been paid yet, and it's reached somewhere up to 200 million. On several occasions, "The Voice of the Public" wrote and called Djindjic on it. Never has the Serbian Radical Party remained in charge of printing "Great Serbia", "Serbian Free Minds" and other books in its edition. You stay in debt, so change the firm, so he's no longer a publisher of the Democratic Party...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3567	Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3568	Well, when Time falls into debt, then shut down the paper. You think you've shut down the company, you've shut down the newspaper, you've shut down the debt. No, the debt remains.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3569	Replica, Mrs Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3570	My intention, of course, is not to deal with the ideological pasts of the MPs here, but to count and tell the truth, since Mr. Seselj has now mentioned some alleged debt. He showed here what the SRS is talking about, which I and I have no objection to, and it's like he's hanging out with such editions. As for the Democratic Party, since Mr. Seselj, as he has shown so far, does not want to see the truth, nor does he know how to count, nor does he want to see what really happened. As for the "Democracy" list and the alleged debt to the ABC-Glas press, as secretary of the Democratic Party, I found, last year, that the alleged debt was the product of an original counterfeit. And based on the police investigation, it was proven that it was a fake. The debt, based on which the Democratic Party's jury account was blocked for a time, was removed from the Democratic Party's account before these elections. So it's obvious the police proved it was a fake. So Mr. Seselj here now represents what is right for him, not what are the facts. I pray to Mr Seselj, since it has been proven that the Democratic Party's "Democracy" list has not remained in debt to the Press Glass, to say from which means, and in what way for all these great, scientific works, it has managed to secure funds, to print them in millions of circulations and free distributions to the people, and, of course, it does not pay taxes and not bring funds into the budget. So what he was talking about is not true, and please let him explain how the Radical Party provides millions of circulations for its editions, so numerous. I think we should give a whole lecture here about what they've been publishing, how they provide these millions of sums and free shares of books to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3571	This was a replica. Without what Mrs Mojovic is looking for, it can ask... (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: Give me just one minute according to the Rules of Procedure. ) Please, let us finish the debate, Mrs Mojovic and Mr Seselj. Please continue the discussion at the cafe, I'm not talking about who's printing the party papers, because it's not the subject of the debate. We're talking about the amendment of MP Jovan Deretic. I ask all MPs to discuss what is on the agenda. If no one is answering for a word anymore, I will put the amendments of MP Jovan Deretic to the vote. For 74, against 109 abstentions, 11 did not vote six, a total of 200 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 68, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the MP Nikolic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3572	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another member of the government's handling more than the taxpayers, than this has ever been the case and what would have been normal. In fact, the tax revenue from immovableity under Article 68(1) shall be gross income from Article 66(2) of this Act, reduced by the normised costs of 20%. There we heard in the explanation that there could be tax evasion, that funding of state and government liabilities would be severely compromised, unless the item was adopted, or if the normised costs from 35% were reduced to 20%. Let's think about the consequences of this increase, which is almost 100%. If you admit to the norms at 20% or 35, it's about 80%. The price of the rent will increase, Minister. Many earn this income, which you tax on Article 68, in rooms that are rented. If you cut him down, you admit the costs from 35% to 20%, he'll overpriced the product he's selling or that he's producing in a leased space. You're consciously going to raise the rent, and you say there won't be any inflation. That's absolutely impossible. As soon as you increase the price of the rent, the price of the product will increase, and then the standard of living will be severely compromised. Maybe you'll fill the budget, but I don't know who. If citizens continue to buy only bread and milk, the question is which products you will be able to find this ambitious budget, as you have presented to us and how you adopted your majority. Therefore, I suggest that you reconsider that those who do not use Articles 2 and 3 of this article do not apply cost accounts, but want to be recognised as standard costs, recognise the normised costs of 35%.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3573	Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3574	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is good, because if accepted, it protects the owners of the business space that betray their business space, admitting them a higher percentage of the costs. It's mostly maintenance costs. If it's a new business space, it's usually out of town, with some exceptions. This business space is hard to issue, and even when it is issued, it is hard to charge. Anyone who hasn't been able to charge for a business space in months is in a situation where they have to pay taxes to the state, and she doesn't care whether the tenant paid him or not, no excuse can be in front of the state. When it comes to business space in the city center, then it is already a time-consuming business space for which maintenance goes much more money and usually a deal is made between the owner and the tenant, to reduce the rent price so that the tenant will invest something in that business space. Here the owner is in a situation that much greater means of issuing maintenance than is average. As for Gorica Mojovic, if the counterfeit was made, then someone should be in prison, because the counterfeiting of the 30 million dinars at the time, and the current perhaps 200 million, is not something that should go unpunished. For several years, the Democratic Party's account has been blocked and the Democratic Party has done business through some wild account, or completely without an account. Now, if they've lifted the blockade, maybe they've blackmailed the owner of ABC-Glas printing, or his forgeries have been found, but no one's in jail yet because of that big, terrible forgeries. As far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, we all finance with our own resources. How do we achieve them? From the membership fee, from the sponsor. Of which sponsors - what do you care? It's our business secret. But tax authorities can find it through our account. The exact amount of cash inflow on the account is known to be the amount of outflow from the account. If there's no crime, you can't tell us who our sponsors are. If you say so, you will plead guilty. (Glasses: What is the membership fee. ) The membership fee is 30 dinars per year and is paid regularly. So, what you'd say is transparent, and you'd like a list of sponsors now, so if you were blackmailing them, to pin them down. You'd like to put me in a mental institution, and the Serbian Radical Party to make it impossible for him to do business. Yesterday, in a statement by the Democratic Party, you asked me to go to jail or go to a asylum. You're a much better nutcase because you're going there indefinitely. When he goes to jail, you're afraid - I could get out any minute. Now, this is the policy of the entire DOS, especially the Democratic Party. What Gorica Mojovic was doing as secretary of the Ideological Commission of the City Committee of SK, she is doing the same now within the DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3575	Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 119, two abstentions did not vote 14 out of the 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 69th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the amendment promoter want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3576	So, Gorice, Dusko Mihajlovic has determined that you don't owe more. Bravo. I have suggested, honourable MPs, that the income tax on immovable property be reduced from 20% to 10%. I suggested it with confidence that you would support it. But now I'm sure more than half of you DOS people don't even know what this law is about. Not a single smart proposal you, the MPs of the DOS, have accepted in the last few days. Serbian citizens saw everything and heard everything. I believe not -- I believe, but I'm sure 90% of you DOS don't know what we've been discussing here these days. You're the draft laws that you unanimously support, so like a voting machine, you haven't even read it. Now I can test you out quickly when I see you in the lobby, if you've read -- here, I'm giving you my right hand. Part of your MPs, which is obvious, that's what the cameras see, now I see from here, read the paper, the part pours alcohol in front of the bar...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3577	Mr. Veljkovic, that's something to do with the president of our parliamentary group. You take care of your amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3578	I'm talking about my amendment to draw attention to my amendment. And he's been shopping all over town, especially those from the women's political network.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3579	Mr. Veljkovic, I remind you twice to return to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3580	Here, I'm going back to the subject. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, your primary task here is legislative activity. You have to understand that. And the only task is legislative activity. So you have to read the drafts of the law. The people chose you for that. People pay you for that. So you have to read it. I call once again on you to support my amendment and to reduce the income tax on immovable property from 20 to 10%.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3581	Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For 57, against 113, the abstentions were not voted 22, out of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 77th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the amendment promoter want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 77. I have submitted this amendment in order to draw your attention and indicate that the tax rate on capital gains is 20% too high. It needs to be reduced to 10%. For what? If capital gains were to be reduced, in the present circumstances there is justification. In fact, if it remained a 20% rate, it would reduce real estate traffic. It is known in practice that one number of contractors is in such a situation and that it resorts to non-verification of the immovable transport contract. If 10% of the rates were to be reduced by this tax, we'd have a higher percentage of the contract's checks and a higher percentage of the billing rate. The state would benefit more, since there would be no disguised or delayed overtures of immovableity in the court, nor transmitted through land and cadastrian books. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you adopt this amendment, because according to the current real possibilities of citizens, there would be no delay of the contract or any blockade of the traffic of immovable property. It's in practice evident and that's why I'm pointing this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3583	Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For 59, against 107, the abstentions, did not vote 21, out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 82. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the amendment promoter want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3584	This amendment is about the previous amendment I made to this law. It is a similar type of income and the same type of taxation, and the same procedure by the Serbian government that has increased the tax rate, so far applied, by recognising less costs to those who issue, not this time, but equipment and other values. I suppose you're going to vote against this amendment now, but then don't go to the cameras of state television, and all the other TVs, and you're constantly trying to convince us that there's been a tax reform, that individual interventions are going to be smaller, but there's going to be an expansion of the leprosy of the taxpayers. It's about the same bonds as last year. Maybe this year there'll be fewer of them, because you'll be taxing them more. There are no new taxpayers here. There's no one here who hasn't been taxed so far, so you can expand the glue. So you've decided to strike a higher budget, maybe it's monetaryally justified. Of course, when you write a budget of nine billion marks, you have to fill it somehow. I think of all the budgets and all the allocations that citizens in this government of yours will have to provide during this year, but I'm warning you only one thing -- there's a limit to which people can pay. Beyond that line, I'm convinced, you won't be able to charge taxes or punish people. You once used them to a government they didn't like, which they didn't like, which, in their opinion, didn't work well, changed on the street. That precedent has passed, and it's over -- now it's always going to happen. I therefore recommend that you pay little attention to the taxpayers in Serbia. If something by the state hurts, that's when the state puts its hand deeper into the taxpayer's pocket. If you do not accept this amendment, you accept that you are taxing more than ever.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3585	Is anyone answering for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3586	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment should be accepted because those who rent equipment (it's mostly about machines) or means of transport (it's mostly about trucks) have old and often old equipment, old, already very spent machines, and it's rare that new trucks are available. That's the situation in our economy. Let's get out of the farm machinery. That was said, even some DOS ministers talked about it, but now, when more tax exemptions are due to be given to renting these machines, they are silent. Now's the time to show off. If one has a combination, for example, that combination rents, or any other agricultural machine, or a machine for any production plant, it only has 20% tax exemption. He can't do much with that 20% in the maintenance of that machine, and when the machine rents out, it's spent much faster than when it's used itself. Because someone else's hand never controls a truck or a machine, like the owner's hand. I purposely simplify this, so that both you and the whole public knew what this legislation was about and why our commitment to release is to be 35%, not just 20%, as far as the minister proposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3587	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 55, against 110, the abstention one, did not vote 19, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 83rd Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. He has the word Mr. Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3588	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is an amendment to Article 83 paragraph 5, point 1, which says: "a single win from games of chance to an amount of 10,000,00 dinars." I suggest this goes up to 100,000.00 dinars, this taxation. In fact, we know that there are a lot more winnings in gambling than 10,000.00 dinars, and we had opportunities, once we increased it, to reduce the number of players. I think it's realistic that it's 100,000.00 dinars, who gets in the game of chance, is free of that tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3589	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 48, against 106, there were no abstentions, no vote was taken by 31, a total of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petrovic to article 85. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. He's got the word, Mr. Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3590	The Honored Presidency, honourable MPs, respected members of the Government, by amendment to Article 85, I proposed not to tax other incomes of natural persons for the tasks carried out, in exceptional circumstances, in the affairs of national defence, for non-professional persons, for civil protection jobs and for the protection of natural disasters. In fact, here it is proposed to pay 20 percent of the taxes for those physical fees. There's an explanation there that it had previously had the treatment of personal incomes, that certain contributions were paid. Although that's the case, let's see if it makes sense for these fees to be taxed for example. The following jobs -- there's a forest fire, there's a hundred citizens coming in, voluntarily, or they're calling to put out a fire, to prevent the creation of personal damage to the property, not to get the citizens hurt; or when the flood, a hundred people come in here to fix the embankment, there's a tax to be paid. Or, let's take anti-urban protection -- a man on duty in the country, doing certain jobs, getting dressed up in the sky, he's running to the station to see if he'll let him use the rockets. But he needs to pay his taxes for that, too. I think it's really unsustainable. On the other hand, it is exempt from paying taxes to receive members of the electoral commissions and the work of the censusors. I think it's okay that they're freed, but can it take precedence over when property and citizens are really being saved, and when they're threatening a much wider threat -- in fires, floods, or in defense of the city? I think it would be logical and appropriate for the government in this section to accept the proposal and to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3591	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 53, against 106, there were no abstentions, there was no 9 vote, a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I ask all MPs to draw their cards when they leave the hall, after passing the service, the number of present is reduced by 22, and I ask you to keep that in mind and carry your cards with you when you go out, and to insert them when you return. National MPs Gorica Mojovic and Milena Milosevic submitted the 3rd amendment to Article 85. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment. Since the amendments to the MPs have been adopted by the Government, by the Committee on Finance and by the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubodrag Grbic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted, and the Legislative Committee has concluded that this amendment has been accepted in an appropriate manner through the amendment of the People's MPs Gorica Mojovic and Milena Milosevic, who accepted the committee. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. I put to vote the amendments of the coat of arms MPs. For 23, against 124, abstentions 6, 12, a total of 165 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 85th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word Bozidar Vučurović.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3592	I suggested that the amount of 1,500 dinars be changed in terms of "average income at the level of the Republic". By accepting MPs Gorica Mojovic and Milena Milosevic, it would come to the same, approximately the projected revenue of 10,000 dinars. However, the projected revenue of 100,000 dinars loses much of the budget. After all, I can withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3593	I find that MP Vucurovic has withdrawn his amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 87 of the 7th Amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to article 87. He has the word Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 87. I have tabled an amendment to the amendment to Section 1. With my amendment, I proposed that the censorship of untaxed total annual income be increased from 300,000 to 500,000. This type of taxation should be applied to those citizens who have higher incomes during the year without taxing those citizens who earn income below 500 thousand dinar censors. Given the announced inflation and the economic power of citizens, I think this censorship should be increased from 300,000 to 500,000, so I suggest that, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3595	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. I am putting Jojic's amendment to the vote. For 49 MPs, against 95, one abstained, not 17, a total of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 87, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stjevan Kesjejic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3596	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 87(1). I believe that the total income for taxation at the annual level proposed by the government is less than what could be expected to be realistic by the end of the year. The government's own proposal clearly recognises inflation that will be under way in the current year. The fact is that today little anyone can boast of paying taxes on this amount. That's what she's saying. If we know that the consumer basket costs about 120,000 dinars on an annual basis, it means that three times the amount of annual tax the government would have in front of it as a real inflation rate in the coming period. That inflation rate is much higher than Minister Djelic used to say here. The fact is, DOS promised citizens that private citizens' incomes would be much higher than they are today. It is right to expect that these promises will be fulfilled. In view of this, I believe that untaxed income should be increased by a year to 350,000 dinars. In this way, it will be citizens, and it will be a large number, which will pay taxes on this amount. But there will be no real increase in income. There will be a nominal increase. Life costs will be four times higher, as the government predicted as an inflation rate. In fact, the government predicted a much smaller rate - 30%, and it is realistic to expect that the cost of life will be four times higher. For these reasons, I propose that the total amount of taxation of citizens' income for natural persons in the calendar year be increased to 350,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3597	Is anyone else answering for a word? Nobody. ) I am putting MP Kesajic's amendment to the vote. For 42, against 107, there were no abstentions, they did not vote 24, a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 87, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Mamul. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3598	I propose an amendment because the conditions in which economic activity is carried out are very difficult. It is therefore proposed to increase the untaxed share by 61 dinar. I don't know why this hasn't been respected, since everyone knows the conditions under which it's done. The fact that so far some amendments to the Democratic Party of Serbia have not been accepted, and most of them have been rejected, do not think that the majority prevails in the public as well. But if refusing those amendments means we're going to meet new elections, then I think we're on our way. [[Applause, partial.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3599	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3600	I'd just like to say that there's an estimate here. And this has been in practice for several years in our legislation. The only percentage to see if 300,000 dinars are that limit, below that tax is not paid. So only for those who have more than 300,000 dinars, which means if you divide by 12, you see that these are those who have six times the average salary. In our Republic, if we look at January, is that supposed to be that limit over which one of the mild taxes begins to be paid? If you look at income tax rates in Europe where it's progressive... As you can see, here in the proposal is a fair approach and does not refute. In fact, in a year we'll have a synthetic income tax for citizens who will be mild, progressive. The only question now is whether this limit should be preserved six times, which seems quite enough, well above the average of our country, above the average of what our citizens are experiencing, above what our businessmen are experiencing, without talking about pensioners, since the average pension is below that, or should at one given time transfer that limit from 6 to 7.5, as suggested here. I leave MPs to judge. It seems to me that six times the average is enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3601	If no one ever answers their words again, I'm putting the amendment of Parliamentarian Mamula to the vote. For 83, against 85, the abstentions were not, did not vote 6, a total of 174 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 89th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3602	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think this member is similar. I submitted an amendment to article 89 on a tax base of up to 150,000 dinars is paid a tax of 10%. I suggested 5%. For what? 10% that's, like, 400 marks, or 12,000 dinars a month. So whoever has 400 marks of average monthly salary and 12,000 dinars has a good salary. This includes personal income, field, warm meal, overtime, travel expenses, night work, work on holidays and Sundays and extended work. All that work needs to be paid 1,200 dinar taxes. If personal income is less than 100 marks, then they will pay 20 marks. I suggest 5% because 600,00 dinars would come out. For 600,00 dinars, a man can buy 50 kilos of bread, etc. In the second position, you suggest between 150,000 and 300,000 dinars, plus 15% for over 150,000 dinars. I suggested 150,000 to 400,000 dinars, plus 5% plus 8%. I think 8% is more real than 15%. In the third position, you say over 300,000 dinars plus 20% for over 300,000 dinars. I suggest that over 400,000 dinars be 15%. That is why I have proposed this amendment, because the gross workers and others have received up to 400, 500 marks. In that case, we would save most of the workers and others who have small profits. People who have big profits can pay and should pay, and people who earn up to 200, 300 marks, let them pay less, and that's 5%. 1,500 to pay taxes, that's big for one employee.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3603	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment of the People's MP, Lazar Marjanski, is put to the vote. For 47, against 101, there were no abstentions, no 24 votes, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic submitted the amendment to Article 89. (The People's MPs withdraw the amendment. ) I find that the MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic withdrew the amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 123 of the amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 123rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3604	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Serb Unity Party in Article 123, paragraph 1 requires that the taxpayer to whom the state owes be freed from the interest of 0.2% that he owes to the state. The biggest problem is the farmers who gave the state their products, and for several months the state is late to pay them for their product. Also, agricultural pensions are more than a year late, and interest is charged to government bonds. For an unmistakable children's allowance, the state also does not pay neatly. All these bonds have obligations to the state. I suggest that the state release them from these interest rates, or charge them at the same rate as 0.2%, if that's what he wants to collect from the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3605	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Nobody. ) If no one answers the word anymore, the amendment of MP Dragan Markovic will be put to the vote. For 62, against 74, the abstentioned four, not voted 34, a total of 174 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee has concluded that it is legally possible and that it has been duly accepted through the amendment of the Government that the Committee has adopted. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3606	I asked for interest, at a rate of 0.2% a day, to be calculated at the level of the Econtaneous Rate of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. The government has given an amendment which, aboutly, means the same, because the draft and proposal of federal laws reduced it to an econtamination rate of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3607	I find that MP Vucurovic has withdrawn the amendment. Member of the 125th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does MP Markovic want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 125, paragraph 2. - "If the taxpayer has claims from the state on any basis (unpaid pensions, unpaid agricultural products, non-paid children's allowances) he cannot be forced to pay taxes. "What does that mean? In earlier years, it was the case that if agricultural producers do not comply with their obligations, and they are asking the state, state, regardless of what agricultural producers are asking them to do, they come and take their property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3609	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) For 77, against 85, abstentions 5, did not vote 16 and a total of 183 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposed amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic to Article 130. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Kesaic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 130 that determines the means and time of forced collection, in Section 4, to delete the words "or at night". In this way, it would avoid the will of certain tax authorities, tax authorities, to draw conclusions on the basis of a free assessment when they make a forced charge at night. Otherwise, our people are all stressed out, and you might think that someone's running into our house at night asking for payment, even if it's also about the fees that are real and it's possible to make them. You never know who will be the one to order that job, or charge, to be done at night. For example, it may happen that Justice Minister Vladan Batic determines a group of masked people who will make the collection with nylon socks, and that the locals, who are not otherwise taxpayers, are suffering from it. Of course, the next day, the justice minister will say that the tax collectors were obliged to open wide the gate to carry out a shift of guard duty at night. That is why neighbours, who will be harassed by the arrival of several cars, including children's cars, should suffer to collect from tax collectors what they owe the state. I therefore believe that we should not allow such an irresponsible man to determine the time and manner of charge, for he and when he does, the next day will announce that he went to read flowers in the garden of that taxpayer. That's why I think most people should call on reason and not allow individuals to do and do justice and legal things at night. That is why I propose, and I am convinced that you will accept this amendment, that the words "or at night" are deleted, and the amendment I have submitted will certainly be accepted by most of our country's citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3611	There's a word Mr. Seselj says:
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3612	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be important to accept the amendment of MP Stevan Kesejić. Why? Because he's a member of 130. Proposal for a tax on the income of citizens, contrary to the federal law on the executive procedure. That's what lawyers know if there's a lawyer among you. Batic has been a particularly successful lawyer since he became minister of justice, and he has not been before. The Implementing Procedure Act prohibits overnight collection of debts. So, even when a court sentences a forced payment, it is forbidden to do so at night. It has to be done in business hours. This is something lighter than a court fee. What the executive government is doing is always secondary to what the judicial authority is doing. That should be you from the ministry, if you're lawyers, so you know. I know why Djelic doesn't know or why he doesn't know Dejan Popovic, and he doesn't know anything. I assume you're a lawyer and you should know that, so suggest that your minister accept this amendment in time. I know that you have knowingly abolished the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, but this law will fall in the Federal Constitutional Court if this provision remains, because it does not comply with the relevant federal law concerning the executive procedure. Here the rules of the executive procedure are also applied in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Law on the Executive Procedure, because this law is detailed and does not enter into the enforcement process. What does it mean that these rights are given to the tax authority, as it stands here? The tax authority estimates that there is a risk of postponing, and it concludes that it is done at night. Of course, it's about private apartments and houses. This isn't about legal persons, because it's impossible for legal persons to charge at night. If there's anyone in legal records who's employed, except maybe a night watchman, and there's not a lot of legal people with a night watchman. After hours, they lock the door and the tax authority would have to break in. Breaking-in is not allowed again, without court permission, not allowed into an object where there is no owner, unless he tried to notify the owner first, so he enters when the owner is in the facility etc. As for Covic, he does it with automatic rifles, and so does national television. Mladjan Dinkic has automatic rifles at the National Bank, as well as that of your Zabunovic, he has mistakenly hacked into the Federal Customs Administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3613	Come on, please, let's get back to the agenda, Mr. Seselj. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3614	You know, that's what DOS deputies are looking for, Mr. President. I didn't mean to mention Covic anymore, but the DOS MPs simply want Covic to be on the wallpaper. Here, I'll grant you a wish, we'll apply for Covic to be voted out of confidence, and we'll talk about him all day, if you want so much. This is a very serious thing. Your law will fall, since there is no minister here, he has no idea about it, and I'm not surprised he has no idea. Minister, come on, it's very important, and let the lawyer Mamula tell you that I'm absolutely right, the law will fall on the Federal Constitutional Court unless you accept this amendment. We're well-intentioned, we don't want your government and your congregation's most embarrassing in the federal constitutional court. We're warning you in time and we're asking you to make it right so your law doesn't fall.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3615	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 69, against 98, with five abstentions, did not vote 16, a total of 188. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The legislative committee submitted the amendment to Article 31(2) of the amendment. The Committee on Finance adopted this amendment, and the proposing representative agreed to this amendment at the session of the Legislative Committee. Since the amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the proposings, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The legislative committee submitted the amendment to Article 140(1) of the amendment. The Committee on Finance adopted this amendment, and the proposing representative agreed to this amendment at the session of the Legislative Committee. Since the amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the proposings, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Legislative Committee has submitted to Article 143 of the Third Amendment. The Committee on Finance adopted this amendment, and the proposing representative agreed to this amendment at the session of the Legislative Committee. Since the amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the proposings, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 156, paragraph 1 of the amendment was tabled by MP Stevan Kesejic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 156 paragraph 1, I suggest changing the length of forgiveness, saying payments, that after three years, the cost of forced payment is written off. I suggest that this period be reduced to two years in consecutive years of tax, interest and fines on tax violations and the cost of forced payment. For a simple reason, I believe that after two years, it would be sufficient to determine that the tax collector is unable to settle his obligations. Which is why I've been waiting three years. Secondly, I believe that other taxpayers, who regularly pay their tax obligations, would be brought into an unequal position, given inflationary flows and debt-confidential relations that they regularly settle. I also believe that by reducing to two years, after two years of write-off, new conditions would be met for the creation of new commitments, which would practically allow for a faster rotation of the renewal of funds. In this way, it would reduce the possibility for the trustee, or the taxpayer, to be sent to longer maintenance of the fines due to unmistakable obligations. I also believe that due to the conditions in which citizens have currently remained with great debt towards the state, DOS should have that in mind, as they called on citizens to disobey the public. In this way, great obligations have been made by citizens to the current government, namely the DOS majority in parliament, which will certainly not forgive citizens' debts, even though they have promised them, or called them on that civil disobedience. Finally, since I see that you are very interested in what I'm talking about (you are reading the newspaper), I suggest that precisely because of the interest of this government, this amendment is accepted and that we make it clear that Article 156 is changing by making a payment that has not been made by force over the course of two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3617	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 53, against 110, there were no abstentions, no 22, a total of 185. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 166 of the Third Amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted the first amendment to Article 168. The Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 169. The Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 170. The Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 172 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in Article 179. The draft law provides a feedback to this provision. In accordance with Article 134(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 134 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, the National Assembly particularly decides whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I ask the Financial Committee's rapporteur to make a statement on the Government's proposal contained in Article 179. It's a bill of law. I give my word to the MP Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3618	The General Interest of the Finance Committee has adopted a practically complete law, including that member.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3619	I put to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia contained in Article 179. The draft law, on the feedback of this provision, for which, according to the government's assessment, there is a general interest. For 112, against 43, one abstention, was not voted 34, a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 179. It's a bill of law. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the 180th amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, George Mamul, to article 180. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (The People's MP withdraws the amendment. ) Since the MP has declared to withdraw this amendment, I find that the amendment of MP George Mamula has been withdrawn. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular and the decision on amendments, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? He doesn't want to. ) I conclude the search of the draft law in particular and put to the vote the draft law on income tax on citizens in general. For 122, against 19, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 14, out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on income tax for citizens. As the National Assembly adopted the Bill on Income Tax for Citizens in general, I note that, when preparing the Law for publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, the legislative committee proposals relating to the legal-technical order contained in Article 105, contained in the report of the Legislative Committee, agreed by a representative at the Committee's session, will be introduced in the text of the Law. This concludes the fourth item of the agenda. Just one notice - the Management Board's session will be in the first break, not in 13 hours and 30 minutes. We're moving to agenda five. I would like to inform you that we have already adopted a proposal to carry out a joint principled search on the following laws: a proposal for a corporate tax, a proposal for a law on property taxes, a proposal for a law on taxes on use, the holding and carrying of goods, a proposal for a tax on financial transactions, a bill amending the Law on housing, a draft law amending the Law on amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government and a proposal for a law on income tax. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - COMMUNITY PREPARATION OF THE COURT OF Tax LAWS A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on the draft laws proposed by MP Dušan Proroković, I am opening a joint principle search on a group of tax laws. Are the representatives of the motionor answering for a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has a finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3620	Dear Vice President, fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you the key points of these five proposed tax laws in a few minutes. I'd so much like to be precise, because there's been a lot of debate and talk about these measures. This, to be very clear, is not the biggest tax, they don't bring the most into the budget. To some extent, that's bad, because if we look at some of them, we see some laws that should be exactly what a good part of the budget should be, because we have provisions that tax on the economic power of the subjects. That's what's supposed to be the base of our tax system, because that's fairer. However, it is impossible at a given time. That's why I think it's important, though, that no matter how many of these taxes aren't the ones that bring the most money into the budget this year, to take a good look at them, search and see if they're suitable for our country. For the proposed laws, I think they're good, with the fact that in these last two weeks, what's most desirable is a big public debate about whether we need a cell phone tax, whether we should pay some taxes on rifles, whether we should pay some taxes, and what kind of real estate. That's good, and I have to say that through this debate, as the amendments the government has made, and it's been a week since she suggested, there have been some changes, and I'd like to explain why, and what they are. That's good, that's an illustration of that approach that we want to bring to our public debate, which is that what is being handled by citizens, from the economy, is very public, very officially, very solemnly, that you as an expression of popular will have full insight into everything taken from our citizens. If you look at these five tax laws, you'll see, first of all, that there are no new arrests from our citizens. The only thing that's done here is two things. First, everything that has been introduced in a secret (sometimes, not for all laws and taxes), in haste and without insight of the National Assembly, this time it is seen as a palm of the law and will be able, from now on, to decide only the people's will, which you express. It's one very important thing. With these five laws, we have united many taxes, taxes, things that some ministers or government could introduce themselves, and that you as a National Assembly, and hence the people's will and people, couldn't decide. With these laws and with what you have voted so far, we have put ourselves on the path, as a democratic state of Serbia. From now on, we'll decide on these key things like taxes, where they belong, in the Assembly. It's the first and key thing we do with these five tax laws. The other thing that happened, it's some fundamental change that was introduced by this law, it's that we introduced, no matter how small they were today's budget revenues (unfortunately), one dose of progressiveness. This progression is reflected in the fact that with these laws, those who have a new and very strong cubed car, they will pay more proportionally than those who have a "florid" and a "flag". It's done everywhere and it's fair. Those who have large houses in very wanted locations will pay more proportionally than those who have an apartment, than ordinary citizens, and that's also good. Now we get to the point -- those who have a mobile phone today -- and given our structure, I think that in the long run, that law and tax, when there is enlargement, holding mobile phones in our country, will be reduced. At this point, however, the possession of a mobile phone, as well as other things I have mentioned, is one of the most reliable signs of economic will and the power of our citizens. Thus, we are introducing through this progressiveness and through these laws, I would say, more justice into our system and we are going through this, though modest, but a decadent step in transforming our tax system to tax under economic power and it has a moderate dose of progressiveness. I say -- moderate -- too progressive leads to the escape of capital, and that's where we have to measure ourselves towards other countries and what is given to our people. Progressivity is the same measure of an orderly European society, not only France or Germany, but also of the countries around us. Look at countries where there is no progressiveness, I think they have a social model that, that's not the one that feels the country's recovery and isn't exactly the one that's fit and around which there's no social consensus. Now let me move a little bit into the details of these various laws. If you look at the Company Tax Act, the first thing that should be noted is that with 20% of our country is very competitive. In all of Europe, that is the lowest rate, except Hungary. In Russia, there's talk of a lower rate, and so far it's only introduced to citizens. So with that rate that was so far, it seems to be an appropriate low rate that looks at the state of our economy at this point, on the one hand, but it's also but one of the key arguments for foreign investment. This is what will help with many other things to restore our economic growth and activity. If we look at what happened in the basics, just here, it's all those who worked on the proposal that was being studied today, we looked at the practice of Serbia and all those solutions that many others had, so we separated what gave good results and what led to abuse. By the way, we've led to some reductions, some firmer ground for what needs to be taxed. I have to say that the vast majority of the businessmen we talked to, both social and private enterprises, supported it. They supported it because, if there is to be one tax on the profits of businesses as anywhere in the world, it must be just and cannot bear in itself certain provisions that open large valves for abuses. That's what we've been trying to avoid at this point. If we look at what happened in the same mahu, and we have seen here, you have before you the amendment of a group of MPs, who have accepted all the committees, it is that at this point in time our country still approves a slightly larger portion of the tax exemption from the company's profits, for some purposes and look who they are. We introduce one tax, there were plenty of stories about culture, here's a strong message for culture, for the first time in the tax history of Serbia, 1.5% of the maximum income, which can be given for culture and which can be rejected for the company's profits. It's a very strong message for our culture, it's a very strong message for all those who are in all these activities. I think we will continue to strengthen one key segment of our society, which is traditionally our strong point. Thus, we move on and allow all businesses, both small and large, to make some shift in that field and to invest in culture, and this tax relief towards the state allows them to do so. But when we looked at sports, and humanitarian purposes, and everything that's noble, what some companies can invest in, that's where we went from three to three percent, we increased that share. And when you look at it sumily, we've gone from three to five percent of what can be rejected from corporate profit tax, if it's invested at this point. We know very well that the budget can't support a lot of these funds. We open up the possibility for businesses, especially those who do well, because of them, of course, we think that what they get through fair business, return to our country, our citizens, to what is most noble, which is surely culture, spiritual activity, sport or humanitarian action. That's what's contained in this tax. I would simply like to point out one more thing at the end of this tax, since there has been a lot of debate over foreign investment, and one proposal contained in this law, where reliefs that existed automatically for newly established businesses are lifted. Unfortunately, practice has shown, in the last 10 years, two things. First, that these foreign investors, given the situation in the country, were often those from the Virgin Islands, from Liechtenstein. Unfortunately, it was often those who first transferred the capital in a hiding place, and then returned it in one way or another, and not only did they manage to wash the capital, but they also managed to avoid the tax. Of course this capital escape problem cannot be solved by this law, but it is obvious that if you look at foreign capital that wants to enter this country legitimately, it was not a provision that was crucial to them, and believe me, we have talked to foreign investors about these provisions, and with those who are here, and with those who are yet to come, and already in this law we have what is appropriate. It's that all companies that make losses in the first five years create such a tax credit that they can then beat for future gains. That's what's good, because then we create one ambience, we create interest for those investors, not to enter our country, get rid of taxes, wash off some capital, and then run away. We have here a provision that has already been in the law, and which is the right -- to attract those investors who are here on long run and who want to share the fate of this country and this people and want to invest in a long time here. That's what exists everywhere and gives good results. That's what the real thing is. Of course, as I have already mentioned, very quickly, through which week, a new draft of the law on privatisation will be passed a new proposal of a law on foreign investment, which will further improve the ambience that, therefore, this capital, which is not in our country, comes in the right way, not to be a magnet for some capital that wants to be washed, not to be a magnet for some capital that does not benefit our country, but wants to come in here briefly and then go washed away, without any good economic effects for our citizens or our economy. If you look at this, we have two more key and important provisions in this law. They will help our citizens and our businesses. First of all, if you look at small businesses, they even have a tax credit that can reach 30% of the investment made. Here we have a strong message for small and medium-sized enterprises, giving them even more than those big businesses, because we all know that they will be one of the key drivers of economic activity in our country. Finally, if you look at companies that are newly established in a business unit in underdeveloped areas, their profit tax will be reduced over a period of two years, in proportion to the participation achieved in the total profits of the company. Unfortunately, in our situation, we don't have enough money in our budget so that we can go to some strong programmes to go into territorial support, to develop undeveloped municipalities. There is much in fiscal decentralisation, which we talked about two or three weeks ago, and that will help, but this provision also aims at the right place and helps those companies that want to establish units in underdeveloped enterprises in underdeveloped areas, to do so and to make it easier for them to do so. I want to move on to the other four laws now. As far as the property tax law is concerned, there's been a lot of talk. It's just, as far as our citizens are concerned, the ones who live in the apartment they've been in a long time, we haven't changed anything. For those of our citizens who live in these environments, in their family apartments, what was reduced in the first wave of depreciation, the amendment was returned to the original amount, it's 70%, and if you look at those dinar amounts that should be paid, nothing has changed. It is simply a revaluation that has been done in recent years for inflation last year, and in the following year it will be even smaller. So nothing will change for them. Those stories that were about having big farmers who lived in them, farmers who built something bigger house, because there were better times, and today they don't have much income and they won't be able to handle those taxes, it's just not true. We'll look at the bill in this debate, in this search. With this depreciation and base, which of course sees where this house or apartment is located, one house in the village is not valued as some house in Dedinj. Of course, and how much less is worth it, because these people can't betray that house and we know, because it's our economic reality, that in these houses live people whose economic power is much smaller and lower than those who live in the villas of Dedinj. Speaking of fairies on Santa -- there's a change. We have here for the first time, which is the right thing for us, for our people, for our tax system, we have reasonable progressiveness. I repeat, reasonable, because at this point it is not appropriate to have extreme progressiveness. There's another law we'll be talking about in a week, the law on extra income and extra profit. That other problem, which we're not going to talk about today, is being treated that way, not with this tax. It wouldn't be appropriate if we had enormous progressiveness at this point, because it could stop some investments in construction, it's blocking construction, and that's not what we want right now. However, this progressiveness will allow those who have large apartments or large houses, as anywhere in the world to pay proportionally more, in fact progressively more, which is good. That those who have apartments or villas whose value exceeds the higher amount in German marks, that goes up to 2% of the value. So, for our citizens, we're still at 0,40%. Those who have large villas, relatively greater economic power, which is good, and I hope that a lot of such citizens will be, increasingly in our country, pay something I call -- moderate progressiveness, that is, 2%. If we now move to the Law on Taxes on Use, Holding and Wearing Certain Goods, and there we had a big debate. This is an expression of a new quality of democracy in our country, and by adopting some amendments by the government, we show that this debate was necessary, necessary and good. Let me only mention two or three more things. First, this tax does not introduce any new procedure against our citizens. Nothing new. It's simple, as I've already mentioned, what's been introduced by a sneak, this time it's right in front of you. Today and in future, we can measure the results of such taxes, and of course one moment, which is not today, decide whether something should change or end more drastically. As far as mobile phones are concerned, he is today one of the reliable signs of slightly greater economic power. If you look at the tax imposed on it, let's look at the 85%, those who have prepaid cards, with them the revaluation we have made does not reach what has been transferred and the additional inflation. So they actually pay even less. As for those 15% who are on the postpaid or on the accounts there is simply done the usual revaluation that existed last year. So there's nothing new about it. There's nothing exciting about it. In a few years, we'll be able to see if it's appropriate the moment when there's a big redistribution of cell phones in our society, when it hits a large part of our middle class, or even lower layers. I think it would be appropriate to reconsider that law at that point. If we look at what we're talking about around some objects, if we take the boats, I'd like to note that we want there to be progressivity there too. We have catering facilities or people who have bigger facilities. Just because we don't have a synthetic taxation of our citizens' income, we have to do so in this way. separate or cellular, let's look at where this economic power is and once again with moderate and reasonable progressiveness, we take it where there's some greater economic power. It's not directed against these people. It's just a normal approach. If we look at what we did after the public debate, we see that we have further reduced what was on small boats, up to 5 meters, with or without cabins, we have further reduced it to 300 dinars by at least no cabin. We've had a lot of contacts with those who own it, and though, I say it very openly, we're here for a few dozen, and even hundreds of dinars, we've had a bad shot. Through this debate, and further discussion and debate, I think we've hit it right now, just because those who have these facilities today, agree that these things are appropriate and good. Also, if we're talking about the car, it's the same story again. I won't bother the MPs again with some too many details, but let me say two or three specific examples. And in there's nothing new, it was there, and there's just, it's just, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it'' However, if you look at that strongest car, we can wonder if it's for some new jeep, some stamps, that I don't make them unnecessary advertising -- that's where we're talking about a thousand marks a year. However, if we look at the price of those cars and look at those new cars, there is no depreciation, which has changed from 30% to 40%. So the text that suggests 40% of depreciation to you here, so it's not 6 or 8 years anymore, that's what will allow those who have a slightly older jeep, to cut that tax, and also for new jeeps, it seems to me that a thousand marks is a yearly suitable thing, and that's that moderate progression. It may be a very common case with our citizens, who bought for example. Used car, some mid-cubics, I wouldn't name any stamps right now, since they're foreign. In that case, the people who imported a car that was used at one point, who was 6 years old, according to our calculations, that we checked with those who have that car and who do that job, will be about 3 to 5 marks a month for that car. So, the procedure doesn't exceed 2-3 packs of cigarettes (although with an excise stamp), and we think it's quite moderate, well and convenient to a middle class, which often has that car. If we move this way to our home car, let me talk about the flag this time, about the Florida, that's where we see things haven't changed, even, I'd say, if we look at the revaluation, that's something lower. This government will prove through a series of moves that it will support the flag, support the whole combination, but of course the part that makes cars, that's where things haven't changed. If you look at the depreciation, we're here somewhere at about 460 dinars a year, there's nothing shaking, there's nothing inappropriate. I think in this state of Serbia, for someone who has an older vehicle than the flag, who pays 460 dinars a year, and someone who is somewhere at the top of some economic power, who has a new jeep, and it pays a thousand marks, it seems to me that we have arrived somewhere, which I would call, back to some moderate and reasonable progressiveness at this point. As far as guns are concerned, we have the same situation. This existed, however, because the MUP never wanted to deliver a list of those who reported the weapons, this law simply did not apply. If at this point we look at our difficult history in the last 10 years, this tax may be asking a broader question, it doesn't ask the question - should our peasants have a hunting rifle. No, and there were some stories about it this morning. I don't think they should pay a big tax on that hunting rifle, and again here I want to point out that from these 600 dinars, as far as it was, we've reduced to 300 dinars, so this time, and through additional consultations, we've made a shift and I think we've hit even better what's called a moderate progression to the economic power of our citizens. However, if you look at a slightly wider issue of carrying and holding weapons, if we have about a million pieces of weapons in our country, to a population of 8.5 million citizens, today may not be the time to discuss it any more, but today we finally have the fact that you, as a term of national will, can talk about it and ask yourself, is it appropriate to have so many weapons in Serbia, is it okay that some natural persons have 30-50 pieces of weapons? And today when they ask -- so I can't pay that tax, why don't you give some rebate -- of course it's possible to imagine that there's some kind of degressivity there. It's up to you to talk about it. The government thinks that at this point there is no degressiveness there, but it is very good to ask the question - why do some of our citizens have 20 or up to 50 pieces of weapons? Why do they need one of those arsenals? For what? What are those purposes? Does anyone need that for any kind of security? Anyway, and these amendments that we've brought in, we've cut down on those smaller weapons, like a hunting rifle, and we think we've also found moderate and reasonable progressive here. Let me just finish with the fourth Financial transaction tax law. We had a very strong public debate about it -- so why do we need a tax on financial transactions? Bankers, corporate people, entrepreneurs, said so and came with bills, said that in many ways this tax could lead to an increase in the cost of capital and further intervention in them. I think that debate is very good, it's good that it happened now, because we've finally united what was two fees that were introduced without your knowledge, and today we know where we are. We think it's appropriate at this point for these 0.30%, given the state, and what can be done. You believe that we're going to follow this very closely, and it's certain that one of the grips of our economy, which will be first in line when we fix the situation, will be this, because really, if we look at not only that intervention, but also the one we're not talking about today, because it's on a federal level, and that's the commission taken by the PDO on every financial transaction, we're going to have to keep an eye on it and gradually reduce it. Today, I publicly declare it before you, and it will be one of the priorities, in order to reduce the cost of doing business at the same time and to reduce what can truly be achieved by a higher cost of capital. Finally, the fifth and last law that is before you today, the Tax Tax Act -- and that's where I'd like to explain a little bit, perhaps more precisely what it's about. This fund tax law is a constituent part of what you voted two or three weeks ago, which is the first promising shift towards fiscal decentralisation. I will allow my colleague Shumarc to show you why there is nothing against the building, through further consultations, what we have decided, and perhaps even clearer, not only through reason, but also through some amendments, which will be before you at the next session, to show that this does not end the desire of this authority and the Assembly that supports it, to go against the solidarity of housing. Simply by uniting what was before, i.e. two local taxes, fees for the use of municipal goods of general interest and contributions to solid housing, if you look at percentages, there you will see that we have, of course, the effect of moving on gross wages. If you look at the sum, it looks smaller, but actually, it's the same thing. Because it's included moving to gross wages, if we hadn't cut those taxes, it would have been more of an intervention than an economy, and it's certainly not something we want right now. Therefore, this sum that you are proposed today, up to 3.5%, is the right thing to do. And let's not forget each other -- and that's where I would conclude about that law -- he's the first, perhaps modest, but a very important step towards fiscal decentralisation. Less dedicated spending, somewhere from the center, for those funds, is what local self-government is and how interested they are. It opens up, though small, insufficient, but the true space for action, we say for bossing, that more appropriate in its local environments spend these resources, that they have more freedoms and space to determine for those funds what is best to do within local self-government. That's what's good about it, 'cause it went too far into centralization. This is step one. What's not going to happen is decentralisation of control, because the debacle of our country is not what's appropriate. But this is the first significant step. That's why I think that law should be passed, supported, because otherwise we'd be on the verge of what was the budget. To conclude, we do three things with these laws. First, you today, like all our people, have this in your hand. We can discuss it today, tomorrow, and the months ahead. That's fair. I prefer this than the word "transparent." Secondly, this is the first time we have introduced moderate and reasonable progressiveness when it comes to economic strength. That's good. This brings us closer to not some Western land, but to our environment and some form of normality and order of our country. Finally, we make this one, though modest, but a very significant step towards fiscal decentralisation. That's necessary. Approaching decisions and the possibility of making decisions where they are most appropriate, because it is best to know how best to manage funds, it will be better not only for the Republic, but also for all our citizens living in these local self-governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3621	There's a word Mr. Dragoslav Šumarac, Minister of Urbanism and Building.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3622	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to the floor on the amendments to the House Act. According to public finance reforms, which Minister Djelic has presented, the government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing to be a member of 44. The housing law is deleted. As you know, there was 1.3% of the gross earnings there, as in separation. It's for housing. However, this does not mean that solidarity of residential construction is lifted. In the Fund Tax Act, as you know, 3.5% is allowed to separate into that fund. Thanks to - I must thank Mr Filip Golubovic, Mr Svedovic and Mr Pelevic for their suggestions, and the government accepts all well-intentioned proposals - good suggestions, at that percentage of 3.5%, we will allow municipalities to allow from 0.3% to 1% for solid residential construction. Given that the base is now bigger, that means that 1.3% will be even too much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, I would like to express in a few words the aspirations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in solving the problem, above all, of housing. First, I want to thank all those who voted for the new budget. As you can see, the budget provides for two billion for housing. The country's reconstruction directorate has ceased its work since 1 April. He's continuing his work as a housing director. That's where we predicted two thousand dinars. We predicted a billion dinars for the earthquake affected area of the Colubary County. The government of the Republic of Serbia, apart from the solidarity of housing that will be in the control of local self-government, also at the level of the Republic, will take care primarily of the homeless. Unfortunately, here I have to say, very reluctantly, the previous government was not an example of how to take care first of all of those who don't have apartments, of the homeless. Mr. Vice-President of the previous government himself admitted that the government was a priority to provide, above all, members of the government with apartments, and those apartments that crossed the 100 m2. In this government, as you have seen, take care of everyone who lives and pays rent to landladys of 250 or 300 marks. We're going to go to a solution to get apartments mortgaged, so instead of paying the landladys, they're paying that housing fund. In this way, unlike the previous government, we will take care, above all, of young people and capable people. At the Faculty of Civil Engineering for 20 years, no one was able to resolve the housing issue, unlike the vice presidents of the previous government who received apartments of 200 m2. There are many ministers in this government who live in private. One of them is Mr. Djelic. Thank God, I hope that anyone from abroad will come to this country to help set things right. I know that so far Mr. Joksimović and Mr. Kassi have been assigned to the garages that are less than 29 m2, and only as official housing units. By the end of their term of office, they will return to the property of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3623	There are MPs who have issued an opinion at the meetings of the committees of directors. These are the MPs Ljubomir Mucic and Slobodan Pavlovic. Any of them answer for a word? There's a word, Mr. Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3624	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have issued my opinion on the 8th item of the agenda - a proposal for a tax on financial transactions. However, this will not bother me to refer briefly to the other proposals for tax laws on which the debate in our parliament is united. Really, I'd like to make a point...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3625	Mr. Mucic, I'd like you to take your word for it when there's a debate on the principle of these laws. Now look back on what made you stand out. Of course, you have the right to answer the word in the debate on the principle of all other laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3626	I singled out my opinion, first of all, because the Law on Tax on Financial transactions, in fact, retains resources to finance the removal of NATO aggression and earthquakes in the Kolubar district at a single rate of 0.30, i.e., at two legal bases, at 0.15%, with 0.15 being for the restoration of the country, the tax, and 0.15% for the contribution of solidarity to the removal of the consequences of natural disasters, i.e. natural disasters that hit the Kolubara District. Indeed, there have been a lot of insinuations recently about the means to remove the effects of earthquakes and works in the Colubary County. Only now, from April 1st, from the day of adoption of the budget to today, has a dinar of funds to remove the effects of the earthquake arrived in the Kolubara District Directorate. Where did you spend your money? There are reports of all the money we spent and spent. There are decisions of the competent authorities. This part of the funds spent in the first three months of this year has a financial plan and has a report. Only, there is no one to adopt for 79 days, given that the government has not yet formed a Council of Directorates to decide on the deployment of funds for 2001. I'm asking for this job to be completed as soon as possible and to continue to rebuild the Colubary County from the aftermath of the earthquake. Also, the budget envisions three billion to remove the consequences on one and another basis. As we heard from Mr. Shumartz, it was proposed that two billion go for the Housing Construction Fund and a billion dinars for the rebuilding of the Kolubar County. If that's what I get. I think it's a skillful delusion, given that a billion and 590 million dinars were made last year, and this year only a billion for the Colubary County. With these means, we're not gonna do anything, nor are we gonna do this job that we started. All we know is that the official inflation rate in the previous year was about 112%, 113%. If we take into account that the prices of construction material have increased significantly more, even compared to the German mark course, I think that part of the work we started in the previous year in the first three months, this year we won't be able to finish. At this point in time, I don't know you gentlemen ministers, it's a shame that 2,000 people who worked both during the winter and for the New Year, without saving their health at the construction of the buildings, are left without a salary in the evenings of the greatest Christian holiday of Easter, that they can't accept their earned funds. Many of the facilities started have ended, somewhere over 120 houses, in the last three months, and the government has been unable to set its three presentations in the council for 76 days. If I'm in the way, then pick a new director. If the Government and the Ministry of Finance have transferred funds for three months this year by trusting the Directorate, I don't know what happened to the Department of Construction that it hasn't transferred funds for purposes in 15 days, to at least settle our obligations according to the works carried out. If this keeps up, my guess is that we won't get the program in the next month. Gentlemen, construction and reconstruction have been stopped, and perhaps that was your goal, as well as everything else, to stop what worked and worked in this Serbia. I remind you, the 1999 program was brought in by the end of March in the government building when the bombs fell on it. We have also implemented the program in air dangers, and now this is something worse, which cannot be explained to the people in the municipalities of this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3627	The word has a folk MP who singled out Slobodan Pavlovic's opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3628	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am for the first time in the role of the People's Parliament, and I have singled out my opinion, not knowing how this will happen in the sitting itself. Otherwise, I was going to sign up to participate in a principle debate about a whole package of these laws, including the House Act. Since it obviously won't be able to be connected now, I won't be answering for another time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3629	You have the right to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3630	I'm going to talk about this, which is why I've singled out my opinion on the apartment, but I'm going to say two to three sentences on Secretary Djelic's statement on the law package. He himself says that this is nothing new, that there are retained solutions that will not significantly change and burden the citizens, etc. Generally, Minister Djelic spoke of extremes. If you listened carefully, he talked about "fica" and the new jeep, and he didn't talk about what's between "fits" and the jeep, and there's 95% of those that the tax and all the obligations will apply to. In one word, the laws are not reformable, as Minister Djelic said, I think they are regimeally conditional and that they are taking money from the people. I ended up with laws in general. Why did I single out my opinion on the Law on housing on the Committee on Urbanism and Construction? Minister Šumarac is here, the chairman of our Committee, Petrovic, is there, and other colleagues. I explained it. I want the MPs to hear those reasons, because I was right to do it. The following proceedings regarding this law and the arguments that I made at the time have also been shown to be confirmed. Although, I must admit, I didn't understand what was last said by Minister Schumarac - that he would be allowed local self-government to do something that was not sanctioned anywhere by law or amendment or by any decision, so I just can't understand it. Basically, what is it? The amendments and additions to this law are abolished by a member of the 44th existing House Act, which defines strictly dedicated funds for solid residential construction in the Republic of Serbia at 1.3% and by additions to the 44th Law, are allowed to be allocated from these funds, 5% of the total funds to address the housing needs of military disabled people, these wars after 1991 and members of their families. So, strictly dedicated means. What is proposed for seduction of rights in local self-government to introduce 3.5% on the profit fund is only conditional. The account that Minister Djelic presented, if can be understood, has two shortcomings. It is one thing to give the right to local self-government from the point of view of decentralisation - I, as a MP, do not question it, but I question how and how these funds will be used. In particular, I am convinced that there are so many problems in the local self-government of the Dahpar for solid residential construction will not be and that in this way, in fact, it will stop an institute called solid housing building. The arguments I listened to on the Committee, first of all from the president and others, are that there were allegedly a lot of abuses, so the flats were given to officials, so they were used for other things. I'll swear it wasn't like that. But I want to say something else. At a time when I was deputy building minister, two years ago, we were doing a very detailed analysis of the functioning of housing funds in the Republic of Serbia and there were, of course, examples, in certain municipalities and enterprises, where these abuses were, but this is not a mass phenomenon and it can't be an argument. (A voice from the O.R.: Were you with Covic? ) I'll talk when Mr. Seselj submits an initiative for Covic's shift, I'll talk about it. You were mayor of Novi Sad, and I was at your place, so you had something to do with it. A large number of builders participated in solid housing construction. In order not to be here just criticising Minister Šumarc, Minister Djelic, etc., I will state to you, ladies and gentlemen, just after Mr Mircic insists on it, what happened in Belgrade in connection with the solidarity of housing. Please note that I have served two terms as vice-president of the city government and in charge of this area. Let me tell you, in Belgrade, solid housing has been functioning since 1972. Over 34,000 apartments of solidarity were built during that period, over 5,000 beds were built in single hotels. They were given to those to whom they were intended. Since 1990, a fund has been formed and over 5,000 apartments have been built. It is planned to build from 2001 to 20052. 1,000 apartments. What's very important is that you know this too, Mr. Schumarac, and you, Mr. Djelic, and everyone who advocates that this law exists, that 1,350 companies, institutions and institutions have applied for these five years. In these 1,350 institutions work over 400,000 workers, ladies and gentlemen. Of that, over 50,000 are flatless. Of those 50,000, 15,000 are over 25 and over years of work. At these jobs, ladies and gentlemen MPs and ministers, there were 15 large construction companies employed by over 50,000 workers. I don't know what else I'm supposed to tell you, which is why I've given my opinion. And let me say this, there was no co-operation with the unions about this law. I find that inadmissible, inappropriate, because if there's anything to cooperate with, it's supposed to be in this area. I am saying this because we have received an act from the Committee and the Government of the Union which has not been shown to us, but that is why I have an act from the Association of Military Disabilities which appeal to Mr Djindjic, Mr Marcjanin, Šumarac, Batic, Mr Cedo Jovanovic, etc. Not to read the explanation, that the hunger strikers have secured what they've been looking for for for 11 days. They appeal that this is not done, that we protect them, so that they do not again force them to strike non-institutionalally hunger or in any other way, to exercise their rights. It is obvious that on the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, when we discussed amendments, that is something the report also said, there have been many amendments, there has been no decision on the amendments tabled by three MPs. But there is a decision on amendments to repeal Article 1 and Article 2 in the draft law. Four MPs voted in favour of such a decision, including me, as an MP of the Socialist Party, and one who singled out the opinion. The amendment was voted by the Serb Unity Party MP, and two DOS MPs voted for the amendment. Dr. Vojislav Seselj: Which one? It's in the report. Therefore, Decision 4:3 adopted amendments, the law was rejected and its withdrawal was ordered. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia is on the move, and above all, the Ministry of Construction and the parliamentary majority, which I do not question at all the right to decide in one way or another. There is no Minister Batic here, when he sees a problem, he just comes out and says - gentlemen of the opposition, don't worry about Kosovo, Serbia, agriculture or construction, we'll sort it out. I'm not defending them from handling it. I am obliged, as a folk MP, to say what I personally think about this matter, to say what the Socialist Party's parliamentary group thinks, which does not support such a solution, to say on behalf of about 600,000 citizens and voters who have circled the list I've been on, I am obliged to hear that the table of this matter is not being advocated, because we are going to bring these two things into a critical situation. So, nothing personal, not against Mr. Schumartz, not against Mr. Djelic, not against Mr. Ceda Jovanovic. I speak in principle and I make arguments, please understand them. The government has conditions to propose a solution to how we get out of all this. It's a change of heart about... (President: Time. I'm done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3631	The president of the Finance Committee, Mr Nenad Bogdanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3632	I think that in the presentation of both ministers it was quite clear that the money, intended for the solidarity funds, would be singled out, by trying to do something that, in my opinion, is perfectly logical, which is that local self-government is given the right to assess in a certain way the need for these apartments of solidarity, and in that sense, to single out the money. I think that's okay and that was the first step towards decentralisation and that local self-government would think a lot smarter about it than it's ever been before. I feel sorry for those who lamentate over the apartments of solidarity, for not saying anything else. That's what we, who have now started working in local self-government, have managed to identify -- that there have been incredible abuses with those apartments of solidarity. The first abuses that were, were the abnormal prices for apartments of solidarity. It's just amazing how the gentlemen who decided this and how they negotiated the apartments of solidarity. Next, which was the highlight of immorality, which the apartments of solidarity were assigned to those who had no slight ties to it, and were even assigned to the officials of individual parties. Vojislav Seselj: Which one? () Of course, that's what we're going to talk about, we're not going to tell everyone, because when some people come out here to tell lies, some of them who talk, then we're going to remind them what this is about. Therefore, firstly, the boards of directors must be very precisely regulated by this law. I can't sit on boards of people who've used it so far to manipulate these money, so that they'll be the top eaters who decide how that money will be spent. The unions have to agree, it's very important, how it will affect and control the spending of these funds in the best way. Also, local self-government, these new ones, can't let that money happen to what's been going on so far. Therefore, the apartments of solidarity still have to exist, with me hoping that this country, finally, from what we've heard and everything we've heard about so far, will move on to a normal life, when every citizen of this country in at least a year or a half will be able to take credit and build an apartment for himself, not to work this way until now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3634	It's a business thing. Article 98. - "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda." Since our MP Slobodan Pavlovic made clear the facts and data, and Mr Bogdanovic gave one, again, myting and political speech, which does not have much to do with what Mr Pavlovic was saying. No, you've got connections. What do you say, Miss from the Požega? Would you like to come here? Mr. Bogdanovic here spoke of abuses in some municipalities. It was meant to be said who committed abuses, when, where, and in what municipalities. Secondly, the data provided here is very clear and accurate and they talk about the precise and defined distribution of these funds, and it is pointed to an undefined approach under the Profits Act, which we need to talk about. Lastly, and what you may not know, but it's true, that the unions have so far had one absolute participation in the work of the funds, and they have had a sufficient number of members. Let's say, if there were seven, they'd always have three or four members of their own, and they could have had a direct impact on the distribution of those apartments. (President: We are talking about a breach of the Rules of Procedure here). Finally, when it comes to this area, a lot of quality has been done. Therefore, you can't speak in this sense... This is the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3635	The subject is an objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm not going to get into what Mr. Bogdanovic was saying. He did not replicate that it should refer to Mr Pavlovic's exposure. Therefore, your reaction is inappropriate, because he did not replicate Mr. Pavlovic, but spoke as chairman of the Finance Committee, in which he has full freedom, if you don't mind, to express what he thinks he should. The words are now taken by the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, in the order of registration: Mr. Seselj, Mr. Dragan Markovic, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3636	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, at the disposal of the Solidarity Fund, there have been quite an abuse. Every abuse needs to be stamped individually, and when it is said that there were parties who illegally held these apartments, then it is necessary to state exactly who they are and who got that apartment. Everything else makes you extremely unserious. Secondly, when it comes to state housing, why don't you pass a new law here, that the state no longer has the right to give these apartments and for the record - from this moment on, it can't get an apartment or a minister or any other state official. Then that would be fair. You keep pulling apartments that are earned according to the law. Now, of course the minister will always have an advantage over the secretary or maid. I don't know where it's possible, that someone who's lower qualified and in some secondary workplace, can even get to the highest-ranking job for years. Don't make fun of it anymore. This is about seven tax laws, and it's a unique debate. We don't have much time to distract. If you open up the side topic, I can't wait. You know, I'm always willing to get into it, whatever you run. I'll try every law to make one or two remarks, since I don't have time for a longer elaborate. The first is corporate tax law. In the seventh part of article 51, you're talking about removing double taxation. The question of double taxation is a matter of interstate contracts. We have already had ratification of interstate agreements in several cases in the Federal Assembly to avoid double taxation. Then why do you do it? Both under the Constitution and under all federal laws, if taxes are paid in Serbia, they are not paid in Montenegro and vice versa. Your norm is too high. Third, where there is no interstate agreement, it is possible that our firm or a natural person can make a huge profit abroad, where taxes are not paid at all. There are emirates in which there are no taxes. I don't want to count it so I don't have to make a mistake, but at least two emirates don't charge taxes, and that's what you, Mr. Djelic, should know. The state of Vancouver, whose capital is Vancouver, has no tax whatsoever. There are only 10,000 inhabitants and it is quite soft for various business ventures. Now the question is, what is our goal? If someone who makes a profit there brings money here into the country, or if we were to distract him from making money, they'd have to pay a tax here for what he earned there. It's stupid from the aspect of state interest. Of course, there are those who have acquired huge capital here and brought it out illegally, and now they could bring it in here. You know, you need to investigate how they illegally carried it out, to punish the export, not punish the entry, and you have no evidence of illegal exportation. That's the problem. You're preparing some serious law, if it's quite seriously prepared, as announced. And whoever took the official NBJ course, at a time when the black market course was multiple times larger, several times larger, that's fine. Don't stop here when someone gets lucky, so in Abu Dhabi or some other emirate, they want to bring it here, and you say - you didn't pay taxes, you have no proof that you paid taxes there, now you have to come here. That means this member, and maybe you didn't mean it, but maybe Dejan Popovic got you into it. Don't listen to Dejan Popovic. Furthermore, here you are predicting a stricter income tax that other legal entities or profit organisations make on the market. Who is this directed at? Maybe political parties. What a political party can achieve on the market, when it sells its propaganda material or, the Association of Fighters Liberation Wars, War War Disabilities, etc. They're all non-profit organizations, but they're additionally funded by making pendants, badges, gambling, and stuff like that. That's what they sell on the market, they're additionally funded, and you'd like to tax that, too. Now, what is the essence of these tax laws of yours. It was my voice in the last government that, as I know and know, I find a way for the state to get extra money, and the government's obligations are huge -- and for social benefits, pensions, for this. I thought of it that way, so I came up with a cell phone charge, so I came up with a gun tax and a few more little things. It didn't seem like a little thing then. Now according to yours, it looks like a little something. You all attacked me for it. But now you're holding it all back, introducing double amounts and making one nasty mistake. You can't call this tax. It can only be taxes. We've been thinking about it, but as lawyers, experts, we know what we're doing, so we've introduced a mobile phone fee, a gun tax, and a few more details. It couldn't have been the law. Why? Because he's in college with federal law based on the tax system. It says that sales tax, profit tax, income tax, property tax, and property tax, as well as taxes on income from international traffic can be charged. These are the only taxes that can be charged. He can't tax his cell phone and he can't tax his car. You've now introduced taxes on all cars. That's never been done before. Car tax can only be paid as a sales tax when buying a new vehicle and reselling a vehicle. On the occasion of a new registration, a new owner, that's when taxes are paid. You now predict that taxes on cars are paid every year. I could even accept it if it could be under federal law, and if you would limit it: well - over 2,000 cubic metres, then up to certain years of age cars, three, four, five years, etc. There are a lot of poor people who even drive Mercedes, but 20 years old. Those who are now buying new Mercedes are taking a huge risk, because thanks to some of your judges, such as Private Simic and similar criminals, they buy bofl goods, fake products. They're just going to suffer a lot of damage. You're predicting something here about taxation of property that can also have terrible consequences. You want to subject the country houses to a much more rigorous taxation. You know, a lot of our country's people work abroad. They go from a poor village to Germany, live there for 20-30 years and show up in their native, poor village, and build a huge house where no one lives. So the neighbors compete who will raise a nicer house, show their success. Now, what are you leading to? Of course it's irrational what they do, but they have their own money. We can't ban them. No one lives in that house, and now you're going to hit them with big taxes, because houses are huge and represent real wealth. Don't make them do what they do with their money, they can burn their money at the stake. Why make farms if they won't. This benefits us from making houses. Here they employ labour, here they spend construction material, aid our industry, our economy, etc. Every penny they put in here, even in the most pointless thing, is useful to us. You are turning them away from it now. Why are you distracting them? Tax the villas on Santa any way you want, I'll back it all up for you. Not exactly those poor housewives since before World War II. And there's an orphanage in Santa's house, and there's some houses there, where there's no sewers yet arranged. These newly-compromised rich people or those who got fairies from the state, tax maximum, we'll back it all up. Don't make some stupid shit out here that can get back at us bad. Don't pass laws that are in collegiate with federal law, because it will surely fail you. He'll fall in federal constitutional court if we have a federal constitutional court at all. However, according to some earlier judgments, there are many things there. That's where a lot of judges should be arrested, maybe all of them. As for what you're doing around local self-government, you're making a mistake. Because there has been abuse of the apartments of the Solidarity Fund, you are abolishing the Solidarity Fund. Because someone's sick, you're killing them instead of treating them. If they don't need apartments from the Solidarity Fund, then let's say they don't. You now prescribe a new income for municipalities, 3.5% of the total income of the profit fund and you recommend to municipalities that this goes to solve housing issues. That's what the law says, you may have changed your mind, but by the time it gets to me that you've changed your mind, it's been a long time. There may have been amendments, but we'll discuss the amendments in particular. In the law, you recommend to the municipalities that it goes for residential purposes. It's a terrible mistake and I know it from experience. It should be the goal of every local self-government to liquidate the housing fund as soon as possible by encouraging the purchase of the remaining apartments, because where the state bureaucracy parts of the apartments there are the biggest embezzlements on the issue and there will not be an apartment that needs it most, but will be allocated to local bureaucracy. I ask that the law be abolished, so that they don't get republican apartment officials. That law exists and you have not yet suggested that it be abolished. You're now attacking something that's been done by law. Is the villa on Santa? It's not. Is it illegal to assign an apartment? It's not. One of those larger apartments was won by beating up claims, and the other left the widow Mark Ristic. She didn't buy the apartment, she stayed with the government, and it was deployed. Everyone else was up to 140 square meters. Don't point those things out when you don't even know what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3637	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3638	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that we need to clarify the bill we're talking about, given that one of my predecessors mentioned, and thus brought us into an uncomfortable position, the status of military people, the attitude towards unions, and the head of the parliamentary group who spoke before me mentioned our inability to define the problems and abilities of local self-government. As far as relations with wartime wartime people are concerned, I think the least right to criticise is given by representatives of the former government, since they didn't have enough moral strength to even acknowledge their participation in the war, but rather, you defined their injuries and their deaths as participation in the military exercise. The Solidarity Fund that existed and which worked in a way that we are not satisfied, was a Solidarity Fund that partially met the needs of those for whom it existed formally, but it was a good source of abuse and we want to deal with it. This does not mean, of course, that the state will not take care of wartime wartime disableds or all those users of the Solidarity Fund, but will do so in a new way by tax on a 3.5% fund, with the obligation of local self-government to, from that tax which will raise significantly higher funds (such as a larger tax base, because it is now taxed and regresses for an annual vacation and a warm meal) to allocate funds from 0.3 to 1% for the construction of apartments intended for the Solidarity Fund and users of the Solidarity Fund. As far as union relations are concerned, our relationship is very clear. We can't accept that we're running the policy that they're asking us to do right now. That, of course, doesn't mean that we're not ready to talk to them, but if these conversations are about printing money, seizing to maintain an existing social situation that in itself doesn't have a further perspective without serious and radical cuts, we don't agree. We do not deny anyone the right to a union fight, but we repeat that we will insist very firmly on the policy we have led so far. The bill that we came up with before you is not a bill that deprives the rights of wartime disabled people, but rather, a bill that, since the tax base is extended, will provide significantly more resources to build apartments from the Solidarity Fund. As for the approval followed by the extra-profit tax bill, you are obliged to answer why you have not suggested something like this before, since those who will be exposed to that tax are the ones who were the pillars of the previous regime. At the same time, the tax will cover not only buildings and villas in Dedinj or in downtown Belgrade, but also those located in, say, suburban areas. In particular, the buildings built on land for which they never received a formal permit, nor did they invest a single dinar to compensate for the benefits they achieve by taking possession of something that is owned by the state and its citizens. As far as the apartments that are assigned under the law are concerned, we need to introduce you to two facts. At its first session, the Republic government adopted a binding regulation that formally addressed the problem of functional dwellings. There are no ministers, there are no officials in the Republic government, there are no vice-presidents of the government, there are no MPs who have exercised their right under the existing law and got an apartment -- no cash, no compensation, and you will admit that there is a lot of room for something like that since many are in debt to this state. As for those other objections, which contributes to the conclusion that someone respected the law, we do not deny you the right to behave in accordance with the laws that you have passed, above all, by leading and caring for your own personal interests, rather than the interests of the citizens. Because you'll admit that 180 squares is a lot for the best MP, the best minister and the best vice president of the government, sir, and that besides 800,000 refugees, besides hundreds of wounded, besides hundreds of victims, there's not a lot of moral value in the act that you've done.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3639	Here you go. Replica, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3640	Cedomir Jovanovic is here again for many lies. All war fighters since 1991 have been governed by martial law. It is true that in 1991 and 1992 they were formally invited to military exercises, but subsequently the status was regulated by federal law. You should know, Mr. Jovanovic, not do the dirty thing. The law was only passed from the second attempt, because we had huge objections to the first version. The main problem of combatants, or war people with disabilities, is low disability. That's the basic problem. Secondly, as regards the money from the National Bank of Yugoslavia, the foreign exchange -- while we were in power of these foreign exchanges were used to purchase oil, Jugopetrol and Beopetrol and to obtain drugs. Only once did one company get a million marks. It is the Policy Company, with huge opposition from Serbian radicals. We talked about it in public. In those six months, as many Serbian radicals were in the federal government, only the Policy Company received one million marks per course, with our fierce opposition. You can find that in the U.S. government records, and we talked about it publicly, and everything we say is documented, because we're recording it all. It's about this. As far as apartments are concerned, the housing law has always been valid since the war on here, perhaps before World War II. That law hasn't been radically changed yet. The state can give its officials and officials apartments. Maybe now, but look -- maybe you haven't arrived yet to give your ministers -- in whose apartments do Kostunica and Djindjic live? They've got the rest of their father's. Who gave their fathers an apartment? Kostunica's father was a judge, and Djindjic was a communist colonel, and then the state gave apartments and large apartments in downtown Belgrade. Then where did they get those apartments? They were not born, neither in Belgrade. One in the Bosnian Boat, the other in Tuzla. They didn't inherit an apartment from someone in Belgrade except a father who could get it from the state. If you're asking the question of who the state was giving the apartments to, take from 1945 to here who was getting the flats. I can say it with the full right, because I never got a flat from the state. There's a law that still makes it possible. In these cases when it comes to Serbian radicals, one apartment was inherited and had to be assigned. What could have been done with him if he was in social property? The government couldn't sell it. You can't sell an apartment in social property. Next, the second apartment was compensated. The others who got the apartments got up to 115 square meters. You were the one who told Alexander Vukic that he got 180 square feet yesterday. One of the DOS deputies said that, it doesn't matter which one. Dude said 180 squares.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3641	Please do not have a dialogue, please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3642	I know it's 118 or 117 square feet on paper, and in the stenogram is 180 squares. Take care of what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3643	There's no replica on the replica. We're continuing to discuss the law. The word has been given by the MPs... Since the length of exposure is 10 minutes, I suggest we proceed at 15.35 hours. There's a session of the Administrative Board in the third floor room. [[After break - 15.45]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please continue our work, with a joint review of the seven draft laws within the fifth item of the agenda of this session. In order for us to continue working, we must first determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. The presidents of the parliamentary groups, Mr. Seselj and Mr. Jovanovic, have already answered the words. Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3645	Good afternoon and respect, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I wanted to take the floor when Minister Djelic is here, because I wanted to speak to him personally, because I noticed a kind of demagogy that speaks badly of the citizens of Serbia. That kind of demagogy consisted of him wanting to point out that someone who has villas on Santa, someone who has cell phones, someone who has boats, houses on water -- he's going to pay. And you who do not have it, be happy that he will pay, and find comfort there. That way, that approach personally, as a citizen of Serbia and as an MP elected by Serbian citizens here, struck me. Because it is not possible for Serbian citizens to see that they themselves will not pay at least two or three times more taxes than in the previous year. Therefore, here it is clear and loud to say -- a very small part of the tax is reduced, but mainly taxes paid by citizens who have the most ordinary apartments, the most ordinary car, will be paid two and three times more. But it is underestimating for Serbian citizens that the DOS government minister steps forward and says -- in principle, be happy. They'll pay a lot more with a progressive rate there, and don't see that you'll pay twice as much, because in your luck someone's going to pay a lot more, I guess you won't notice. Those who designed the first three-and-a-half times the budget are mistaken than last year. I repeat, do not calculate the 20 billion dinars that last year had to be spent on rebuilding and rebuilding the country from NATO aggression. That doesn't get into the budget. So the budget was 32 billion. We voted against it here, but you adopted a 127 billion budget from DOS. They are not salaries in education, health care, culture, in science planned to increase as many times as 3.5 times as the budget has increased. Where's the money going? They don't go into business. Because if they were going to go to the economy, the economy would already go. However, the economy is doing everything with 25% capacity, with a trend to work even less, because there is no support. Let the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs say he finished his visit to the IMT although the Union's director is independent. What kind of independence do you have? He's in the government he's working for right now. So don't be wrong. The workers are aware of what's going on. And the demagogue that goes towards someone looking forward to having someone who has a cell phone pay tax, and you who don't have the joy of paying for it, and you don't notice that you pay for it two or three times more, it doesn't pass. Let's get this straight, 'cause I don't want to make any statements to the press. Demagogy is also today's session of the Administrative Committee. No one invited your fellow MP to ask him if he wanted to participate...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3646	Mr. Ivkovic, a special debate will be held at the next session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3647	... If he'd been invited, he'd have found out what it was about. However, it is not called on to be a demagogy and to continue a media hack against a party that is perceived not as a political insolent, but as a political opponent.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3648	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups report for word for second time? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. The first of the people's deputies reported is MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3649	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, perhaps it's a good thing you've brought this debate together, that the same story, applied only to a few laws, we don't have to repeat it to you again. It would be useful to repeat more times when it would enter your brain, and to understand the consequences of not accepting even part of this story. But now, we're where we are. In these laws, we need to find what will be bad for the citizens of Serbia. We need to find what's good. In principle, the laws are good because their text, their form, form, means, is identical to the laws so far. But the laws are bad because they impose new obligations, new taxes, new impositions on Serbian citizens, guided by the terrible figure of the budget you adopted this year, and which must be justified mathematically, since the government of the Republic of Serbia is only mathematically looking at things, monetaryally, even though it wasn't even trying in the budget. At present, over 30 billion expenditures are probably uncovered by revenues, but let's see what's on the agenda. The fifth item is the proposal for a corporate tax law. I guarantee you, if you don't act kidnappingly, you don't need this law this year. This year, under these conditions of business, with such an economic, economic and social situation, there are no companies that will make a profit in business. And how, when it does -- here we go in the fourth month -- there's no production going on anywhere. It takes place, yes, yes, only congregation material is printed at a faster pace than last year. Find me a factory that has a thousand employees to work with. Find me a factory that, under these conditions that you imposed on businesses, will work so well by the end of the year to settle all taxes, to pay the workers and to remain the profit that will be taxed. You can find a fictitious profit in companies by taking periodic accounts, a final bill, and saying, I don't admit these costs, I don't admit these, they don't admit, and that there's some profit that's going to be taxed. But in this situation, when giants are on our knees, when there are no small and medium-sized enterprises, when we don't have any exports, when it all comes down to importing cheaper goods, than it has been so far, this law, except that it will exist in legal traffic, except that some companies will have consequences under that law, this law, as a source of revenue to the budget, you can immediately write off and move aside. I wish you'd turned around since September of production, so if I could say yes, I see you're trying, I see that production is moving, it's going to get in businesses. But Minister, in this situation, I don't know how you're going to make sure that companies pay their salaries to workers, and there won't be any profit. The next law is one that interests citizens perhaps more than other laws, perhaps unwarranted, but it's called property tax, and calls on citizens immediately to think about it -- what it will be taxed, what it won't, and what it will be taxed, will it be the same way it will be so far, or will it be otherwise? If it's any other way, if it's going to be a smaller tax, or if it's going to be bigger. This law brings higher taxes, makes higher rates for taxes. Then you can't tell me there won't be a bigger tax. Now there's a whole scale of immovableity, so you say, up to six million is 0.4, there goes 24000 plus 1%, and then over eleven million percent. This law will put many citizens in a situation that they will not be able to meet tax obligations. You've captured almost everything that can be taxed, it seems that many of you have an exclusive task of thinking about what else can be taxed in this country. It looks like Albania, at one point there were half of normal citizens, and half of them worked for national security. Looks like even with DOS, half of them are thinking about simple things, and half of them are looking for a piece of skin that hasn't been taken off, which can still be handled, how to put some more of the revenue into the budget. If someone opened the heads of a lot of DOS, they'd only find three screws-- entrance, exit and balance. You've turned into that. You don't think about anything anymore. You now have the budget as a basic preoccupation. I'm telling you, you're looking for a man in this society, think a little bit. You said the kids didn't have any perspective, they were running abroad, you said the factories weren't busy. Why didn't you change that? What makes you more successful in these seven months than the governments so far? In that last year, the government spent thirty-two billion, and you're planning a hundred and thirty-two. You're more successful at that. You won't be able to count on it for much success. By the end of this year, it can prove to be the reason for your departure from power. I'm convinced of that, and when I was convinced of other things, people who said I was wrong and not right appeared, and true, Mr. Minister, this property tax in many cases is inapplicable. You found property that doesn't serve taxation, which doesn't generate any income, doesn't make any profit. How are you going to prove to the peasants that they're going to start paying taxes on everything and everything, and even on the houses you're going to go to? Because in the villages, we have no record of the size of the house. You will begin to film the peasants of the house, to see how many family members they have, what tax it will be, how much the house is worth, but it seems that what you promised, that you will not introduce "shock therapy", seems to have been in fact the greatest deception for the citizens of Serbia. You're introducing shock therapy by hitting us on the head every day, and that's not shock therapy. Shock Therapy is the one that brings better, not the one that hurts your head. The government should hold a session if we have a government. According to the National Assembly sessions, which are the biggest commitment for the government, we don't have a government. The Prime Minister seems to be so angry at the National Assembly, he'll never come to the session again. And Vladan Batic, only when he finds another piece of paper, comes here to read it and immediately flees the session, to the point where we will discuss it. But you're introducing a tax on holding, wearing and using certain goods. It is true that we were forced in 1999 to fill social funds with taxes on goods, which you now want to tax, and the truth is that the funds were strictly targeted, but it was the year when we suffered destruction, let's say that the 50 billion figure is somewhere the closest damage NATO has done to Yugoslavia, and the truth is that it was the year when almost all the factories stopped working, because almost everything, the ones carrying the production, was destroyed. Now it's occurred to you to introduce a tax, because you say -- they have people's cell phones, they need to be taxed for having cell phones. Minister, I may be denunciating citizens now, but many have personal computers, many have satellite antennas, many buy black onions at the market, at a time when it's more expensive than citizens can handle. What do your agents, who do this, don't report that some of them have capter dishes? Look at all the sources of income, you didn't even dream about it. Many citizens take taxis -- right into the house, to establish their property, because apparently he didn't pay all the taxes he could pay to the state -- he's driving by taxi. Someone's going to the football game. Minister, where'd he get the money for the football game? Put a tax on it right now. The people's proverb says, "He's not undressing." Minister, you need to be taught that naked you can only skin. The tax on financial transactions - it should be abolished immediately. It was introduced at the same time I'm telling you, only if you're not planning on NATO attacking us again. It was introduced with a strict purpose -- earthquake, rebuilding and building the country, at 0.15% on financial transactions. You're now adding that amount and putting it into the budget, to spend it transparently. It was transparent -- 0.15 for the Colubary County, 0.15 for the country's reconstruction. And now, in the budget -- there's no transparency. Of course, you don't care what the MPs have to say. It's all about the housing bill. The very fact that the minister has admitted to the government's amendments that a mistake has been made regarding the apartments of solidarity speaks enough about how ready the government has been to propose laws to our situation. Not the laws of the European Union. Textually, these are the laws of the European Union, the content of this should be Serbian laws. The law in Serbia cannot be the wording and content law of the European Union. You invented a yacht tax - so how many Serbian citizens have yachts? Someone told you that Serbian citizens have yachts. You're not going to go after Ada Gypsies and those who made boards and rafts on the kegs, you're going to steal some taxes from them, are you? In Baja's garden, I hear, people are tearing up those rafts they made on the dam, driving around with neighbors and family, because you've pushed on their souls, or you've loaded their taxes. The next set, I would say, of social laws, awaits us in the follow-up of this session. This inhumane, harsh, set of laws that do not know Serbia at all, would be best if you withdraw. But since you're not ready to do that, we'll wait for you to vote. Since you're ready to vote - yes, it remains to be seen how it will be welcomed by the citizens. Judging from how some of you citizens, who already recognize you on the street, react, it's obvious that you're not going to have a good time on the street, you won't all be able to hide behind dark glass and not everyone will be able to track three cars each. As I can see, when many of you leave the National Assembly session, there's a mix-up about escorts, about jeeps, about the police, because there's no telling who's following who anymore. Ten of you come here with six escorts to the National Assembly sessions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3650	Mr. President, Madam Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that an injured member of the 99th is said to address one another with respect. Paragraph 3 states that the use of offensive expressions is not permitted. As a neuroradiology specialist doctor, who can think of himself as a man who understands himself well in central nervous system anatomy, means the brain, I think it's wrong for an MP to express himself about the number of strokes that DOS MPs have. On the other hand, as far as the profession is concerned, to which I can very competently call myself, it's also wrong to be told about the brain by people whose funeral is professional training. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3651	Here, Mr. President says that you've been thinking about me. You know what, I'm here, at this pay phone, at a time when the Socialists were much stronger than you are right now, burying it much stronger than you are right now. Let me remind you of the characters who are so rude to you now, and then they were stronger than all of you together. What I've been doing in one period of my life gives me enough experience to assess who's next in line. Take care, there's someone in this room at a high price.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3652	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, followed by MP Milutin Salesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3653	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, respected members of the government, I would like to say a few words about laws that tax local self-government and their negative impact on local self-government, or the level of municipal services, which will produce. Today, we learned that the government has withdrawn a law, or law, that is to say, to admit a mistake and to admit about a local income that was wrong. In fact, the Government's proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government provided for the abolition of compensation for the use of municipal goods of general interest. In my opinion, that's very bad. Why? Because these funds were strictly purposeful. They knew exactly what they were meant for, what they were spent on. I cannot agree with what the minister has said today, speaking of the overall effects of these laws -- that some of the revenues have been introduced secretly. Obviously, it's not about this, because the government admits it in the light of the law. The communal fee was planned to build special facilities in the area of municipal infrastructure, to improve the work of municipal enterprises. To remind you, the government has approved the use of this fee based on the submitted demands and projects of local self-government. The funds were directed at very concrete projects, which meant raising municipal conditions in local self-government for citizens in these municipalities and cities. By the way, that meant a better life. I will list several examples that show justification for local income, i.e. projects for which these revenues have been spent. For example, in Knjaževec 17 water lines were built, paved local road, in Žitište the construction of the water line began, in Vrnjačka Banja the construction of the sports hall started, in Arangelovac the construction of the garbage dump was completed, in Dimitrovgrad the construction of the sports hall began. It's put under the roof. The work is expected to continue. The abolition of this municipal fee may call into question the implementation of the projects launched. Why? First of all, because the new local source of income - the tax on the fund of earnings will not, in my opinion, replace this local income, for the simple reason that in the existing conditions of a major decline in production will not be achieved. Secondly, income tax funds do not, according to the proposed legal solutions, have a special purpose, have no mandatory character for the aforementioned municipal projects, but have been left to local self-government, municipalities and cities to decide on their own where and how much money they will spend, and some experiences from the past months say that these funds have been spent on budget deficits and personal incomes. This claim is proved or confirmed by the legislator, or by the Government, when the bill finds that local self-government, municipalities and cities are expected to direct these local revenues to the area of municipal consumption. Of course, I would hate to see a tax on a fund spend on something else and certain projects experience the fate of some of the starting objects. My colleague, a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia, from Prokuplje, or Žitorajje, told me that construction of four-year-old schools, part of the donations of the Ministry of Education, was started in the village of Banjevci, part of the budget of the municipality of Žitoraj. According to him, at the meeting of the Assembly, on the question of the council members when school will be completed and why no funds for the continuation of the school are foreseen in the budget, he received one final political response: who started the school, let it finish. I believe the Ministry will not take the steps of local self-government, but will carry out its obligations. As for the means of solid housing, I am glad that these funds remain. For many people in this country, these funds were the only way to reach the roof. Today, several MPs spoke about it. I had no impression that anyone had questioned the purpose of these funds. There were more words about how the apartments of solidarity were shared, but that's something else. In addition to confirming that this solution is good, those are the words of my colleague Slobodan Pavlovic, between the 1970s and 2001, more than 30,000 apartments were issued in Belgrade. Finally, for the proposer in the light of this law regarding this compensation, it is used many times and incorrectly - transparently. I know that word becomes DOS's trademark, but I don't think she had room for this case. Why? Because one of the local incomes known to be both height and purpose is abolished, and another is introduced for which only the height is known and the purpose is not known. I hope that the purpose will be in the interest of the citizens. And, another detail regarding these laws. Minister Djelic spoke today about the effects of these laws on the standard of living of citizens, i.e. on car taxes. That was argued and mentioned by the expensive car, of course, the ones that are the cheapest. The other day, a daily paper came up with exact data saying that these laws have a negative effect on the standard of citizens, especially in the pocket. They listed one example that I will mention here: for one vehicle of five years of age, a cube of 2,000 cubic centimeters, with all other taxes, contributions, taxes, insurance, etc. Compared to 4,000 dinars this year, 14,000 dinars must be paid. Of course, with regard to these negative consequences, if someone needs to be denied, the laws and what is written need to be denied, and we can very explicitly determine that. For all these reasons, I think the laws that are filed will cause a negative effect on the population standards and should not be accepted for that reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3654	The word is by MP Milutin Svedovic, followed by Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3655	I speak as a member of the Committee on Urbanism and Construction on the Proposal for a Law on Housing, in principle and as a member of the Committee on Finance on a Bill on Tax on the Fund of Profits, in principle. Rare are the parts of the economy that are not destroyed in this country. Such an area is building apartments on the principles of solidarity, which only allowed workers the right to resolve the housing issue. In the conditions of sanctions, the construction of apartments hired a construction operation, its co-operatives and many craft companies. The model has managed to withstand a few times, especially in the last decade. More than 5,000 apartments were built in Belgrade alone this way, and it is realistic to build about 2,000 more apartments in the coming period. Such a model of building apartments by the government has been assessed as being overcome and against the legality of the market, and no other way of resolving the issue of rights to housing for homeless and tenants has been offered. In my opinion, it is necessary to maintain a healthy pillar of this social and economic leverage by freeing the apartments from non-market charges. Therefore, there is no reason not to retain the right of employees to resolve the issue of roof over head, in terms of earnings that allow workers to buy one square meter of living space if they set aside two years of earnings. On the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, we voted against the adoption of the bill and that of Article 44. But, in consultations with Mr. Šumarec and Mr. Djelic, since the argument was that this 3.5%, if added to 1.3%, is a total of 4.8% (which is enormously burdening the budget that was made), an agreement was reached that the Bill on the Tax on the Fund of Profit, from this 3.5%, which is allocated to the profit fund, made one sliding scale from 0.3% to 1%, where local self-governments would be given that they could freely and decentralisedly decide how much funds they would define for residential and solid construction. I know it's true that there's been a lot of abuse around residential-solidar construction, but the previous speaker said that all of this should be stamped individually. I have a document here where it's individually stamped, but unfortunately, it only applies to the Municipality of Gornji Milanovac, where we branded it and we came up with one report. Let me just say that the control was carried out by the National Bank of Yugoslavia, the Office of Accounting and Payment - the subsidiary of Cachak and signed by the authorised worker of the PDO, where it is said - that from 1 January 1994 to 1 January 2000, the time period was covered by this control until the moment 17. Six. 1999. So, from the 1st. 1. 1994 to 17. Six. In 1999, when the funds allocated for residential - solid construction went to various municipal enterprises. And, where there was no fund, there were abuses of a small municipality of Gornji Milanovac in the height of 3,600,000 marks. From that moment on, no misuse of the money paid into the Fund was made. So, by applying 1.3% to every payout for personal income. That means, just because such funds are formed, where there are boards of directors, there's the abuse of money analyzed, but it's not analyzed about how flats will be deployed. But it's not the subject of this story right now. Elem, the Democratic Party of Serbia and the DOS will withdraw the amendments that we voted on on the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, but according to the agreement that the Government should include this proposal in the Bill on the Tax on the Fund, as you have been obliged to and to order municipalities that do not have funds, to form funds and to form boards. I would also like to ask my colleagues, Mr. Borislav Pelevic and Mr. Miroslav Veljkovic, whose amendments we voted for at the time (and no agreement with the government had been reached before), that they would withdraw them and that the government would commit to doing this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3656	There is a word from MP Miroljub Veljkovic, followed by MP Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3657	Oh, my God, you're starting to doubt each other. It is bound by the MP of the Democratic Party of Serbia, so there is no agreement. There's been a conflict. What's this all about? Minister Djelic uses the proverb a lot, you heard in his address - if you look at this, if you look at that and, Mr. Djelic, we looked at it. We looked very well at your tax code package, and there we saw terrible things. Dear People's MPs, a package of tax laws ahead of us, are the result of the 2001 budget of the Republic of Serbia that you adopted at the last National Assembly meeting. We Serbian radicals have warned you that the budget is hypothetical and, at the very least, wasteful. We warned you that businesses and citizens will not be able to withstand this kind of public spending. With many amendments, we have tried to influence you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to correct the proposed solutions, that is to less burden the economy and the population. Unfortunately, you disobeyed us and adopted such a budget and part of the tax laws. The consequences of such a statement have already been partially felt by the people, and when the holding of the first salary account under the new gross system and the citizens of the first bills under the new laws, around May 1st, they will feel even stronger. In your passion, you went so far that municipalities under DOS control and before the adoption of the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget, adopted municipal budgets. So before this assembly established public spending frameworks, municipalities under DOS control adopted municipal budgets. It's a disaster. I responsibly argue that the Vrnjačka Banja Municipality Assembly adopted the municipal budget two days before the adoption of Serbia's 2001 budget. I asked a man who worked on making that budget -- how could you adopt the budget when you didn't know, for example, how much of the municipality's participation in sales tax, how could you adopt an item in the budget when you don't know how much of the participation in the income tax in the municipal budget? You all know that the fund is, according to a new proposal, the original income of the municipal budget. Do you know what he said to me? He says - I got an oral order, I got the bill earlier, he didn't tell me from whom, probably from Minister Djelic, and he says they've adopted the budget on the other hand. In particular, this item -- the income tax, in Vrnjačka Banja's municipal budget, amounts to 20 million dinars. What if we don't pass that law here today, or the next day, when it's your turn? I don't think we're going to adopt him. I think DOS MPs will support my amendment, not to discuss it at all. So I guess in other municipalities, not only in Vranjacka Banja municipality, which you DOS control, municipal budgets are adopted in the same way. There is no law for you, no constitution, no nor nor nor nor nor norm. You here, in this congregation, are acting as a congregation procedure, and in real life you are doing, you can see from this example, a revolutionary terror and a strictly dictated economy. You promised the people a rule of law and a market economy, and instead we got new centres of power that govern the country and the economy by the dictatorship. It is enough to mention, for example, the Monopolies Regulation on Oil and Gas Imports, which was counter-constitutionally introduced by Mr Djindjic. Isn't that right, Mr. Martian? Mr. Martian, president of the Parliament, wrote him an open letter and told him - you broke the Constitution. Djindjic boldly responds to him through the press - what Constitution? Mr. Martian, since this assembly chose him, instead of immediately calling for an emergency session and replacing Djindjic, shut up. It means there's only one thing that's being fixed here. Do you know the consequences of this regulation, Mr Djindjic? It is my responsibility, since I have production capacity in this municipality, there has been no oil in the municipality of Alexandrovac for 7-8 days now. (Glass from Hall: Theme) Learn something other than that - the subject. Imagine that in the middle of spring, there are no grams of oil in the municipality whose basic income is just farming. Dear People's MPs, we have a new set of tax laws ahead of us. We have: corporate tax, property tax, financial transaction tax, profit fund tax, and finally, pearl over pearls, tax on use, holding and carrying goods. A moment ago, Mr. Nikolic gave you ideas about what else could be taxed, etc. This pearl will record world economic science, this kind of tax - on the use and carrying of goods. Someone said two or three days ago that only the air wasn't taxed yet. I think, as you have begun, that you will find some expert solution very quickly, you will find a way to deepen this people. All these suggestions, which we're going to discuss for the next few days, are bad. They're so bad, I suggested for a few of them through the amendments that they don't go into congregation procedure at all. So I can't fix any amendments. The rest, who enter the congregation procedure, we Serbian radicals will try to correct the amendments we have given to these laws. I want to believe that you will have more reason than you have so far and that you will accept good suggestions. I am pleased that one of these amendments has been accepted by one of the congregation committees. So you're slowly starting to learn. That's good. I also want to warn you that the people, the trade unions and the professional public are watching you closely. As you started, I am getting closer and closer to believing that this government will be the government with the shortest mandate in Serbia's history. God, I'm getting closer to that belief. Learn, honourable MPs from the DOS parliamentary group, and you government ministers, learn once and for all, business activity and citizens' standards do not rise to a higher level of fearsome tax burdens on these entities, but rather the opposite - tax incentives and discharges, and increased investment activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3658	The People's MP, the president of the parliamentary group, Mr Pelevic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3659	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, gentlemen of the Ministers, I would like first to express my satisfaction that the Committee on Urbanism and Construction has accepted the amendment of the Serbian Unity Party, i.e., my amendment, as well as the amendments of Mr. Veljkovic from the Serbian Radical Party, and Mr. Salesanovic from the Democratic Party of Serbia, which are mostly identical. We ask these amendments to be abolished by Articles 1 and 2. It's an apartment bill. Given that these members provide for the abolition of Article 44. The housing law, which provides for the construction of apartments from the Solidarity Fund. I think this amendment is really good, because if article 44 is abolished, every solid building of apartments is abolished. If this is lifted, then thousands of workers working in Serbia will be left without any hope of getting apartments. Only a group of textiles, shoes and skins in Belgrade has received 135 apartments in the past five years. It's not a small number, if it's known that each family has at least three to four members. For the period 2001 to 2005, the same group of workers received 5,451 m2 of dwellings, which means, if we count that the average of these apartments is 55 m2, it is about 100 apartments. This is quite a number for people who work from 30 to 40 years of age and who have no other chance of solving their housing problem in any other way, either by crying, by building or through inherited houses or apartments. So we can't leave these people with no hope. I support Mr. Soldovic's proposal, which asked me to withdraw my amendment. But I will do so in the interest of workers who are eager to solve their housing problem from the Solidarity Fund, only on condition that the Government gives some other amendment that will oblige this fund to survive and that municipalities will have to allocate up to 1% of the funds they receive from the Fund Tax Act for Solidarity. If we take into account that a law has already been passed on that the tax will be charged on gross wages, it will be about the same amount that has been allocated so far. It should not be forgotten and reminded this government that the previous government of Mirko Marjanovic six years ago also wanted to pass a law that abolished the solidarity and tax fund that was separated for this purpose and amounted to 1.3%. They should be reminded that the government of Mirko Marjanovic, when she wanted it, passed that time, and fortunately it failed. Thousands and thousands of workers are expected or at least hoping for their problem to be solved this way. That's why we need to give up the government's idea of abolishing the solidarity fund. He's not out of line, he's fit for our country, and he's the only hope for many people who don't have an apartment. So, I will give up the amendment, provided that the government guarantees that municipalities will have to make an amendment to the government, which will be an integral part of this law, allocate up to 1% of the funds for building solidarity apartments. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3660	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group, spoke for himself, so you'll have to wait a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3661	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am prepared to repeat what I said during the afternoon session. It is, on the contrary, the transformation of the organisation's distribution of these funds, which implies the abolition of the existing solidarity fund, the transfer of the fund's intelligence to local self-government and the increase of funds allocated to the cost of the solidarity fund. Therefore, since the tax base has been increased, the Fund for Taxation of Regresses for Annual Holidays and a Warm Meal has been increased, with the amendment proposed by the Government, which has been allocated to MPs. It is clear that local self-government will be obliged to make it available from the pay fund, to have the funds of 0.3% to 1%. Given that 3.5% of the rate of taxing the fund is made, it is clear that no one intends to deny this right of the beneficiary to the solidarity fund, but rather to extend the right, through an increase in funds that the fund has, but at the same time, through the reduction of those opportunities that have led to the abuse of the fund. Those abuses have been before. The above Milanese example is very clear. Therefore, local self-government in favour of the needs of citizens to whom it is very clearly coming into contact, has the means of a transformed solidarity fund that is significantly larger but not less. So, through an amendment that is very clear we are going to meet Mr. Pelevic's request and certainly, if any further interpretations are needed, there are ministers. No one intended to deny aid, but rather to improve it through the expansion of funds while reducing the potential for abuse, as decisions were made centralisedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3662	Second call, Mr. Seselj, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this time I'd like to use some of the things I intend to say earlier on two questions. One question is housing construction from the solidarity fund, which is now being abolished, eliminated and directed to local self-government. And that's very wrong. I still insist that the best option is that all speculation and all abuses of apartments from the Solidarity Fund are publicly branded and sanctioned under the law. If there is housing from the means of solidarity, then that money is directed by those who single them out. Of course, not all, but through certain authorities, groups of people who will represent the board of directors and who will prescribe the criteria for the assignment. If it's left to the local self-government, it's just community red tape. In science, the matter of bureaucracy has already been so elaborated that there is no need for this pay phone to explain it to the general public, although many here should explain it a little bit. Bureaucracies always have, and it's in her genes, in her blood, her intention to capture and what doesn't belong to her and what's meant for her. Secondly, on this law on taxes on use and holding and carrying goods, which I have already spoken of in principle, I would like to say a few more words. I'd like to explain some things in more detail. Car tax is introduced, which means that anyone who has a car, however old that car is, along with all the cab payments so far on registration, has to pay a tax. The annual tax for the smallest vehicles up to 1150 cubic metres is 600 dinars. Over three thousand cubic meters is 30,000 dinars. Now watch what happened in our country. First, mass imports of second-hand cars from the Western countries, via the Serbian province, Republika Srpska and ultimately through Montenegro. On several occasions, the authorities legalized those vehicles in Serbia, reregistered them and charged a fee. That's what the previous government did, and that's what DOS government did. That fee was pretty good. She was very useful to the government. It doesn't matter now what it was used for, much more securely than now, but that's another question. These people imported vehicles of massive cubicity, but four, five, six years old. They can count now on a discount of up to 30%. We haven't considered that amendment yet, slowly, we're going in a row, because what you're scurrying is not what I'm interested in until it's put on the agenda here. 30% is the highest tax discount, with 5% each year until 30%. One who has a used vehicle, which he thought bought cheaply through Montenegro, will now pay another 20,000 dinars each year, plus all the other regular taxes that existed. That's the point. Next, this is where taxes are introduced and on boats without a motorcycle. The one who lives next to the Danube, Sava, next to Morava, Drina, has some bikeless boat, a wooden boat, needs to be transported to the other coast, needs to be transported from some field in a hurry, to have his children fly, to have a boat without a motor to pay taxes. Well, here I'll agree with you, let the yacht tax be twice as big as you predicted. I don't feel sorry for anyone who has a yacht to pay a huge tax. I'll support all of that. Don't charge the poor girl taxes on boats without a motorcycle, because if someone has a wooden boat with a small cubicity, you charge him back. Why? Look, all the people who live next to the Danube tend to have a boat, everyone who lives next to Sava, next to Morava, along every river that's still watery, they want to have a boat. It's not a luxury. You should have introduced a bicycle tax on the same basis as a wooden boat. Introduce the tax on irons, on home irons, and who wants to iron, per year, to pay taxes. Introduce a lightbulb tax, why, so go from house to house, about amendments we'll later this is now a principle debate, for a lightbulb maybe followed by an amendment. What's the point here? The point here is that a government that is incompetent and has no solution, and can't keep a promise of $6 billion outside help, finds money with a people she claimed to have nothing in the election campaign. So you didn't honestly believe that the people were orphaned, that the people had nothing. You believe that the people are still many, so take away from them in every place. That's the point. The minister refused to plead on the matter of this law. This can't go in law form at all. Taxes can potentially be tax laws, and we have previously been in a dilemma about what the Constitutional Court's opinion will be, because if the federal law prohibits tax collection, the question is how tax can be charged for it. That's when it passed, and now you're going so brutally with the law and you're not interested in the position of the Constitutional Court or the legal order. For boats with no engine drive up to 5 meters long, you predicted 700 dinars a year. Then, up to 10 meters of dinars, up to 15 meters of 1,500 dinars and over 15 meters of 1,800 dinars. They're all motorless boats. For boats without cabins with a small engine of 7 to 22 kilowatts of 3,000 dinars, over 22 - 10,000, and over 220 - 33,000. You know, those over 220 kilowatts, I'm not sorry, but there's a small boat and a small motorcycle that'll make a man get rid of a boat and a motorcycle. Who last year had a boat in the Danube, pulled him to shore for winter, will give up this year to drop him in the Danube. Why? He'd rather have someone take the boat to him than pay this kind of tax. They're not insignificant things. He'll pay for it if he gets caught that it's his boat, but if he gives it up, throw it away, sell it, leave it, and whatever he does can't survive with it anymore. It's just one example of how you're asking people to actually come down to free slave labor. You've freed only milk and bread from taxes, but that's why you've raised the price of milk to 24 dinars, the bread is now 10 dinars with a trend of further growth. And all the rest of what you're doing is you're introducing a kind of war Communism, you're bringing people down to slaves who will eat a handful of rice a day, praise DOS rule as the best, and black under their fingernails you'll kidnap.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3664	The word has been given by the MP Slobodan Janjic, followed by the MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3665	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am an MP for the Serbian Radical Party of the Pcinj County, specifically from Vlad's Han. I come from southern Serbia, where from the October revolution to today, with greater or less intensity, a real war is being waged. The parliamentary majority has persistently ignored the debate on the subject despite the disastrous impact of the phantom co-ordination body of Milosevic's communalist Covic. We finance from the citizens' tax of this phantom, Covic. Most of the responsibility is borne by Mr Kostunica, who has 40 MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia in this assembly, who are also silent about the burning problem, or the threatened integrity of Yugoslavia and Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3666	Mr. Janjic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3667	I'll be right back. All this is paid by the Serbian people. These Shiparian gangs led by ideological negotiator Riza Halimi - Mr. Covic's personal friend. It is more important to all of you that the deeper you drag your hand into empty and now the torn pockets of Serbian citizens. What you will find there will show time, perhaps individuals will rejoice. You, gentlemen, have called for civil disobedience for five times less taxes and for the taxis introduced in the war, or for not paying any bills. Now such calls do not require anyone to send because these can pay up to three or five percent of the population, of course, if they will. The first package of laws you've adopted will survive 15 to 20% of businesses, whether they're state, social or private. This will be confirmed in practice over the next two months. For all those who survive this first package of dragon laws, you have prepared this second package of legal robbery that is now on the agenda and you will clean up all economic entities, except for the Serbian Government's budget, which will already be in real exile, this is now temporary. Some will go to France, an office in Germany, and others will probably go to America. One who coordinates and orders such financial shock therapy, at a time when the state, economy and citizens are in a very difficult situation, fighting for a naked existence, cannot be justified for not knowing the opportunities in the country. Not all came from France, although most DOS leaders were in refugee in NATO's aggressor countries, while the people here died. You should openly say you've received orders from war criminals from the West. . .
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3668	Mr. Janjic, what are you talking about? I'm warning you for the third time that you're back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3669	Mr. Chairman, the finance minister said he had consultations with the IMF on making such and tax laws, and they are probably in NATO. You should openly say you received orders from war criminals from the West. In Yugoslavia, you need listeners, market, territory, raw materials and cheap labour. If you had a little courage and pride, you would tell the citizens of Serbia what you have prepared for them, although you know it will be a collective political suicide of DOS. I guess some of you are more important than the nadal party policy, so I expect individuals to rise above the party interests of DOS. And now a little bit about the bill proposals you haven't consulted anyone about, not the citizens, not the union, not the economy. The planned corporate tax funds will not be because such profits are made by only 8 to 10% of businesses, so the effect will be small. The tax on property (inherited or acquired 10-20 years ago) will be charged to everyone, and in the last 13 years only 7-8% of citizens have gained something, they remained three to five times as poor as they were 10 years ago. And now, what interests you most. The tax on the use and holding of certain goods is completely inappropriate right now. It is normal that the state does not tax certain goods bought by citizens unless citizens have been warned when buying how much further they will have to pay for that satisfaction, i.e. the possession of certain goods. It is known that Serbia's people and Serbs are prone to guns, so now I ask one question - whether this newly named Ceda Holbrooke will pay taxes to hold or carry a gun to the arrested former president Milosevic. I guess the first one should set an example and make a transparent statement about whether the president's gun was taken or held. Holding it will cost him 900,00 dinars under the new law or it is such a good specimen and will pay 4,500 to wear it all the time. Following a detailed article in the paper on the details of the seized weapon, I realized that the president's gun ended up at Chad Holbrooke's last time he was at the cannabete.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3670	Mr. Janjic, for the third time I warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3671	He didn't go to jail armed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3672	Mr. Janjic, I'm afraid I'll have to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3673	At best, you'll pay 300,00 dinars for a trophy specimen. And now, for the finance minister. Not all jeeps are like this Chadine, new to 75,000 marks. The people in the mountain-mounted area are driving jeep brands of Gaz, Uaz or the old ones, and for them to pay 20,000 dinars of taxes, and they don't have other transports, they don't have infrastructure. It's also a dream, and a means of transport. The tax on financial transactions of 0.3% is too high for such a exhausted economy, and the proposal itself is lacking because there is no explanation of the purpose of such funds, who will spend them and how and for what purposes. Instead of contributing to solid housing that somehow provided funds for the most vulnerable social categories and people with disabilities, you predicted that this was now financed from the financial transaction tax to 0.3%. Since there will be no financial transactions, there will be a burning social reaction. The proposal to supplement the Law on Local Self-Government, which does not specify the share of local self-government in obtaining resources at the disposal of local self-government, is at least unserious. For example, forest wealth, oil fields in Vojvodina, energy capacity, mines, agricultural land etc. If all these funds go to the government's budget, then local self-government or municipality has nothing. And as the villages relax, so will smaller towns in Serbia. The proposal for a tax on the fund provides for up to 3.5% of the new burden on economic operators and citizens in order to finance local self-government. No one seems to be allowed to tear off a piece of that sweeter financial cake called the resource or the natural wealth of a particular municipality or city that the government has taken after itself. As a result of such a relationship of the village and smaller towns remain unoccupied, only an increase in the population is recorded by large cities,... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... the centres of political power. Over the past 10 years, I've been bored with politicians from beginners, type Dacic, Pacic, Cedic, Rastovic, etc. They come out for a pay phone, so it's like a time machine or a show -- it happened today. Come out, gentlemen, and tell me how you're going to fix it and help out the Machine, the Cruise, the Elektronic and the Flag. Whoever did what, go to jail and answer. The people expect the future from you, not the past. You didn't have to let the citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3674	Mr. Janjic, I've already warned you twice, and you've timed out, and I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3675	Here, wait a minute, I have the right to the last sentence. You didn't have to offer citizens this many kittens before Easter.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3676	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic, and then by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3677	The honourable MPs, the respected presidency, are here before us a package of laws, here is another bomb in the heart of Serbia, according to Minister Djelic. Except this bomb isn't timed, this is one shock bomb, and I think it's also a shock bomb package, of which Serbian citizens will find it hard to wake up. When they wake up, I don't know. We talked about the laws more than once, and the last package of laws took the shirts off to the citizens, prepared them for washing, and this next package we're adopting today, it's cutting off the skin. And what's next, I don't know. The Democratic Party's statement is very interesting. He says the opposition's MPs are telling the truth, they're scaring the people. We have no intention of scaring the people, I just think it would be much more correct and fairer, to this people that those Batics with their socks go from house to house and pick up what's left of the people. We have no intention of scaring the people. Sometimes there's something we don't understand. Here, let's say, I'm not ashamed, I'm not ashamed to admit, I didn't understand some things. I thought it was a salt excise against the people. I thought the children's diaper tax, child food, child's clothing and shoes tax, was some sort of public assault. I thought the tax on a warm meal was a great imposition on the people. That's what I was talking about. However, I realized that I was mistaken. I'm not ashamed to admit it. Why was I wrong? The introduction of an excise on salt is the work of the minister of health and the well-being of this government towards the people, as increased use of salt causes hypertension. So the government takes care of the people. Children's stuff tax, baby diapers, maternity tax, that's DOS's concern about birthright. Positive or negative, for whom, I don't know. I also realized that the tax on hot meals, the tax on transportation, again cares about the health of the people, that our people are not fat, that the people are thin, that we have a beautiful people. I understand, but he can't understand the people. That's the problem, and I think it'll stay longer. I've been wondering a lot these days, and I have to admit, how the MPs of the opposition, how the people can't understand the well-being of these laws. I felt a little guilty, looking at the MPs of the opposition, seeing young, beautiful, smart, so I'm counting -- they understand better. But one moment, my son, how they realize it before we do. It's basically a fairy tale of "Care's new suit." Head Chad comes out and says, or he comes to the parliamentary group and says, "Please, these laws are transparent, reform, European, fair, just and those people believe and vote the law." When they come home, they look. They are neither honest, nor just, nor reformative, nor transparent. Moreover, they are unconstitutional, inapplicable, unfair and unfair. We have a very interesting package of laws today. According to some of my observations, our minister is a very good man. That's one, like this, pretty important quality, but they didn't mean him any harm. However, there is one saying "the road to hell is paved by human good intentions". I'm afraid these good intentions of our minister don't drag us to hell. This package of laws, which is on the agenda today, is such that I would stick to the property tax law and the law on the use and delivery of goods. Please, Toma Nikolic often mentions the constitutionality of the law. The property tax law is practically an unconstitutional law, because it does not come from the economic power of the taxpayers. He's financing some economic power. Mr. Minister, and for him I'm not surprised, he's a younger man, but his deputy, who's been working for many years, has a nice house called the Statistics Department across the street. He could go to the Bureau of Statistics, dig a little bit into the books, see the structure, content and size of Serbian property. When it comes to houses, the latest lists of assets and persons show that there are 160,000 more apartments in Serbia than houses. These lists also show the structure of the residential area, that Serbia has an average size of the house over 119 square meters. How come someone's gonna think we're a rich country? When you look at the structure of those who have houses, you get quite the opposite image. By 1980, houses were built by workers and peasants because they couldn't get apartments. They built houses according to Serbian custom, each one starts to be a little more than neighborly, so it makes 200 squares. Mr. Seselj also spoke of the people of Germany. People come, they bury 40 years of work. Take the Negatin route, towards Pogorevec, pass through the Morava Valley, you will see houses of 300 squares and more. It may be a desire for the son to stay with his father, but do these houses reflect the economic situation of our people. Whether the flag workers who made those houses, the Bora workers, the Majdanpek workers, the peasants in our neighborhoods, have the strength to pay for these conditions, and there is no average house below 100,000 marks, although they can talk about who they want, even with depreciation, can pay for those 14,000 dinars. Or, 4%, that's 12,000 dinars. I can't, gentlemen. I wouldn't be afraid, we've seen that law before, if I hadn't heard Mr. Minister say, the main feature of these laws will be the consequent implementation. And when he says, "Consequent law enforcement," I immediately think of Mr. Batic and those with socks over their heads. The tax on cars -- it's not a hard job again, it's not too much trouble to go to the Republic MuP, to see the structure of Serbian cars. Well, gentlemen, everyone in this room knows that the average age of Serbian cars is over 12 years old. With these illegal imports, illegal imports, when 200,000 violations were imported, that age increased further. I'm not sorry that Chada pays for the jeep, or anyone else here, it's not a sin. It's a sin, gentlemen, to charge people for cars over 14 and over 20 years old. That a man with a 20-year-old Mercedes, a pensioner, pays 19,000 or 18,000 dinars. No, gentlemen, he's got to pay for it. He won't fix the brakes, we'll jeopardize traffic safety, and I've given the amendment that cars are over 10 years old and tax-free, because I think that would be correct and fair to the citizens. There's one more thing I wanted to tell you, I'm not going to strangle you. I was surprised, gentlemen, these days in Serbia that they vote by law and vote, and no one votes for them. I'll explain how no one votes. I go to Vrachar and one man tells me - these laws and taxes big, you can't. I'm saying you voted for it. He says he didn't, my MP (not to say a letter) didn't vote for that law. What do you mean, it's not? Well, she says -- I'm looking over there, there's 15 people don't keep voting, and she's one of those 15 that hasn't voted. I go to Cachak, the same story, he tells me -- these are my say here from Chakak are not good laws, but they didn't even vote for them. I go to Sombor, same story. He says, "I'm in the 15 that didn't vote." Please, the opposition's MPs feel that these laws are not good, and they have friends, they have neighbors, they have relatives and they have voters. They can't go to the voters with that story that they're causing pressure, that they don't need a warm meal, that they're walking to reduce cholesterol and make a better life. And they feel like this isn't good. Another message to Mr. Secretary, and there's the deputy. I'd like to ask you for the next package of laws to go to the Bureau of Statistics, to take out the average. I'm talking about the lowest basics for taxation. You've put on the 9,400 lowest base for high-speed taxation. It's not much of a science job. Go, take a look at the average gross salary of educators, textile workers or workers in the processing industry, in the metal industry, and on the basis of that average set at least some decent amount of the lowest tax rate. Do not set a minimum rate for taxing as many workers, officials or professors do not have a salary, because if they pay their taxes at that rate they will have absolutely nothing left for the next salary, or for the next job. They'll strike and we won't have any income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3678	The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to speak to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Djelic, but unfortunately he's not here right now. I don't know if the deputy's here. I don't know if I can talk to him. We heard Finance Minister Djelic, whom even the fog couldn't stop him from flying to Serbia and making a package of tax laws make the citizens of Serbia happy. Citizens are so looking forward to new tax obligations that they wonder why Djelic does not show up sooner, he would happily make them happy sooner. Mr. Djelic says, with regrets, that this package of new haraks does not bring much money into the budget, and that is bad for him. I agree with that finding that this is bad, but after taxes, exhausted Serbia. Very often you use the word transparent. You are, in fact, very transparently dragging your hands into citizens' pockets, so the product of your actions and inactions will be many transparencys on the streets of Belgrade and Serbia, from which you will learn the messages about tax laws. You DOS gentlemen have absolute authority. You took everything into your own hands. You have absolute control and power in all the media. You have abolished the Public Information Act, which was intended to prevent a lie, and now you sow lies in immense quantities. You convince citizens that they should and must be happy to be taxed. The more taxed they get, the happier they get. In the election campaign, you promised the people change and six billion dollars that won't arrive. Everything you do, in all spheres of action, is against the interests of the people and the state. You're suffocating the Serbian national consciousness. You mock Serbian tradition and Serbian history. You are cosmopolitans, mondialists, you first love other people's countries, countries of America, countries of the European Union, so in the end, if you remember Serbia. The MPs of the SRS are bothering you because they tell the people the truth, what their eyes are opening. The eyes over which she is fat with the guise of your false promises. The theoretically nicely engaged tax obligations, in practice, will not be feasible. Where do citizens, workers, peasants, health workers, pensioners come from? If there's bread, it'll be fine. Chaos is in all areas of human activity. No honor, no cheeks, no morals, you're cooking insolent plans -- how to ban and prevent the SRS from telling the people the truth. Vladan Batic and Zoran Djindjic are very ready to form a new one through a group of SRS apostates. They got this green light from their bloody mentors from the West. You are bothered by Serbian radicals to reign only with your justice and truth. Whoever opposes you will be struck only by Batic's justice. Perhaps we Serbian radicals are eager to help the Serbian people in the most difficult moments, and that is the best sign that we have been and will be the fire, and behind you will be nothing but a flimsy trail, like a snail. Rejoice, Serbian citizens, new DOS packages of tax laws are coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3680	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3681	Replica, Mr. Seselj. My function is - the head of the parliamentary group. So, since you spend time writing essays or wandering around Serbia, I have the understanding of the lack of time it takes to read these bill proposals, with which the government came before you. But since you're taking care of the poor and you're fighting against the sins that we're doing, we're prepared to cross-reference the decisions that the government of the SRS, the SPS and the JUL made in time, and the bill by which the DOS government came before the National Assembly. A special registration fee for motor vehicles came into force on 7 December 1998. It was adopted by the government under Mirko Marjanovic, Mr Seselj and Milovan Bojic, and it seems to me that he was the third vice president in front of the JUL. There were several other vice presidents, since you had a cabinet of 36 officials. So, sir, then the passenger car, with a motor of up to 1,150 cm cubic, was loaded with a tax of 300 dinars. That was 1998. Under a bill issued by the government before parliament, the car is burdened with 600 dinar taxes. That's a 100% increase. In 2000 alone, measured inflation was 113%. In 1999, something more. So there are much less burdens with which this government comes before citizens and parliament than the burdens with which you have been dating. As you spent your resources, we showed during yesterday's session and there's no reason to talk about it again. As for the property tax, the base of taxation has been changed, it has increased from 0.4 to 0.8% plus the rise in prices to a small one, but only to property above 200,000 marks. You didn't make a difference between the poor and the rich, but you brought in those tax regulations that contributed to you and your government. So you came out of it with houses, with villas, with bars, with companies, so today in front of parliament we can only talk about a comparative analysis of what the government is doing today and what you did two years ago. I also agree with those representatives of the SRS who so approve, although the analysis is not in favour of them, both because of their different attitude towards the citizens, given that in a very difficult time they were then taking much more through taxes and taxes, and so, of course, through an analysis of what was certainly non-intentional spending of funds obtained in such a way. As regards vehicles, trophy weapons, etc. We are ready to make an account in front of the citizens of this society, pay our taxes regularly, and everything we have acquired, we have not acquired through compensation or through donations from the government [[Employer Seselj is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3682	I thank the president of the parliamentary group first, because in a short time, he spoke three times less and stuck to the subject, an excellent example of how it should take place. Here you go, Mr. Seselj, straight to the replica. In doing so, he did not offend you, but I do know that you will abuse and seek the right to report to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3683	Please, ma'am, for nothing in the world I wouldn't insult Chad Jovanovic, how do you doubt me in advance? You and I will thank Ceda Jovanovic for having a replica earlier, so he declared it his own, and you thank him for having spoken for less than 10 minutes. Take care of yourself when you're having this session. I know that every government must prescribe taxes, because the government has what it takes from the people. No government in the world has anything, except for what it took from the people, if the governments of some very wealthy countries of the Arab Gulf or small states in the Pacific are excluded. But here is the problem, not that you have taxes, but that you have increased the number of basics of taxation. We had a car registration fee. All the money from that tax went to the flag, and now you've killed the flag, destroyed it. From the flag, there's nothing from the factory. Now let's see how much you've been producing since New Year's Eve, what's it been -- about 300 cars all since New Year's Eve. Now, that's about the difference in this matter. Secondly, we had a tax, which in nominal terms was four times smaller than the current, and in real, real terms, at least twice as much. I appreciate you putting this item into the budget. But now the real budget is twice as big as last year's. It's a budget that can't be charged. It's a waste of all these taxes. You'll be able to apply these taxes sometime. In the end, I would end up, if you would be kind enough to listen to me, no offense to Mr. Cedi Jovanovic, my hand would dry if I offended him, Mr. Jovanovic, we are here with you conducting a parliamentary debate, a parliamentary controversy, we are only doing from the opposition what is our duty. We attack power, you defend against our attacks. How correct, how incorrect, that doesn't matter at all. I never get mad that Batic comes out with some papers and says 24 "audia", and he can't say who bought it. You come out of this congregation, so where we can't show up, you make statements. Here, today's "Politics" and almost all the newspapers have published, me "Politics" happened to be hand-in-hand, you as a Democratic Party are asking me to go to the asylum. True, you said nice, you said I was going to the hospital. You didn't mean the hospital where the tonsils are operated or the hospital where orthopaedic aids are built in. I know exactly what hospital you were thinking. First you said prison, so if you can't, then to the hospital.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3684	I'll remind you in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3685	I didn't insult Mr. Chad Jovanovic. There's no need to warn me. I just want to say one more sentence. What does this point to? You are unable to bear the fire peacefully and steadily from the position of the opposition. The argumentation of the opposition is too deadly, and you're insecure about the dossage policy you're conducting here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3686	There's a word from MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The next is MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3687	Gentlemen Members of the People, a package of laws from five to eleven is just a part of which we, as MPs, should present. There's so much time that it's not enough for any of these proposed tax laws. The tax package that DOS brings to light today is a shameful act for our people. Is it possible that DOS today represents budget inputs, that there is no basis for such a thing. Isn't one million unemployed, which you represent at all bells through your ministers, who are supposed to fill this budget with this package? Why didn't the government restructure the economy first, so it allowed a large number of people to start working. Only DOS people have been employed so far. The others are undesirable. What kind of policy is democratic orientation? It has nothing to do with democracy. You expect this package of laws to ensure budget security. Why did you step up your tax rates in all the bill's proposals? I have proposed amendments to certain members of these laws. One of these is an amendment that regulates the question of hunting weapons and cars. And there's an increase in the rate by twice as much as the previous one. You've turned cars into big cubics, old years of production, to be realized as if we were the richest society, or as if they were new cars. Fight for a democratic and rich society, and you can't see it from these laws. Actually, you can tell the opposite. When we, the Serbian radicals, at the time of our country's sanctions and heavy bombing, suggested certain taxes of 100 dinars on mobile phones, you muddled us at all levels. Now you're proposing double fees without even blinking your eye. What do you DOS gentlemen want? Why are all these projects that are on the agenda so that they don't make our improvement, but you put the workers in the press, and you drain out the last penny, which has nowhere to earn it. If you'd hired more workers by now, you'd have the support of the people. Like this, who knows what's gonna happen. You, Mr. President, in that place where you are sitting, are making a very ugly throw at the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. Why are you doing this? Are we so unacceptable to you that you have to insult all of us. A large number of amendments we have submitted have been rejected. We know that. Why would you DOS accept that? That shows your democracy. Information means provide certain information on these laws that take money from citizens. It's a good comment that will lead you to think about it, but it'll be too late, because the people can't wait for what you promised -- six -- seven billion dollars. People won't feel anything positive about it. The proposal for a law on local self-government - I have proposed an amendment not to allocate funds in local communities across all units, because there are local communities that are not ready to deal with such financial resources. The key points of these legal changes are not to increase taxes. They should bring a new moment into the budget, according to Minister Djelic, they should be bigger, but are now unable to realise. Everything proposed by this package, as proposed by the government and the ministries, was regulated by the old laws. Only now are the amounts increased. I believe that this package of laws is now democratically given to citizens, that these are laws that they must respect. The term "progressivity dose" is used. This dose of progressiveness is only good where societies are rich and where this dose of progressiveness can achieve its goal. This dose of progressiveness provides charges for excess living space. But it's located. It's thought of Santa and exclusive locations. Do the villages have their own grandfathers, or will that be regulated in a different way? I'm afraid there's no expression that peasant houses, which are currently empty, are subject to this law. Foreign investors are also mentioned. They can come and invest, but not now, in these conditions, and by the proposal of these laws. It has been said that the profit tax must be fair and will be financed by one percentage of culture, sport and humanitarian giving. All these laws were in control of foreign mentors. You probably got a promotion permit from them and through this assembly, because everything we, as a Serbian Radical Party, propose as an amendment, you do not accept, or you would accept, but you must not accept from foreign mentors. With these laws that regulate taxes on cars, you're also supposed to be in favour of the domestic flag, but it's a discussion. Time will show that you respect neither our employee nor our production, but what needs to be realised by foreign capital on our market. We are to them a consumer society that needs to spend their goods. I mentioned at the start of the weapons display. I've put some amendments on. I think a million pieces of weapon you're talking about represents something that you don't know what you're going to do or what you should do with those people with 30 or 50 different weapons. There's nothing to do with them the way you do. Those who hold that weapon also do certain services. It should be maintained, preserved, for some future times, as museum values. I don't think it's worth saving for a fight or anything. That weapon isn't ready for that kind of thing. With regard to the income tax, according to your words and suggestions, there needs to be a shift towards fiscal law. This 3.5 percentage is a step towards financial decentralisation, for those in local self-government to spend money, i.e. the step towards decentralisation to be in financial flows. I'll conclude with a comment. We've got the law on our hands, but they're regimeal. For the first time, we've introduced targeted progressiveness, but how and where? An example of a step towards financial decentralisation, we'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3688	I thank Parliamentarian Vitomir Plužarevic, who represents a fine example. He's stuck to both the subject and the time for exposure. He has the word MP Velimir Simonovic. The next is MP Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3689	Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to Article 4. Proposal for a law on keeping and bearing goods. Tax on passenger cars according to engine volume has been provided. To me, some car owners of some older models, as well as my colleagues from the Faculty of Engines and Motor Vehicles, drew attention that it would be much better if the tax had been determined according to the power of the engine rather than by the cubicity. Engine manufacturing technology has improved significantly. It's better with strength. It can be smaller cubicity and greater engine power. This will hit those who have older cars. They'll get hit more than those who have newer cars. Since I didn't have enough information, I didn't write an amendment about it. Second, page 8, arms tax. I was inside the other day, where I had conversations with more people. They were local DOS officials, representatives of the municipality, and was also a representative of the local hunting association. They complained that the fee on the hunting carbine was 3,000 dinars. He can't go hunting for a tall game without a carabin. Hunting isn't just recreation, rest and entertainment. Hunting is a very significant business branch. I was absent when Minister Djelic spoke. I think there's something reduced in taxes. That's good. As for weapons carried by citizens, especially natural persons, I wouldn't mind if those taxes were much higher. How are we supposed to pick up weapons from citizens when every other citizen is armed? A little -- a little bit so there's a shooting in the cafes, in the street, etc. Here, the other night, in Belgrade, two young men drive a car, get ahead of themselves, or they pass too close, the first corner stops, there's verbal insult, and one pulls a gun. So, as far as large-scale criminals are concerned, put as much tax as you want, they won't feel it, but if ordinary citizens are this way to reduce the number of weapons they have, I'd be happy with a solution like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3690	The word has a folk MP, Zivko Selakovic, and the next is MP Bora Drakulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3691	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of seven of these draft laws to say in these ten minutes, but I would like to try something in principle, most importantly, in my opinion that I should single out and say. Let's say, the property tax bill. By the way, I'd like to underline that the peasants here are damaged again, or they're being put back into some other order of citizens. I want to explain what I said. For example, the peasants had no chance of getting apartments, maybe 100 marks, not saying they were buying fairies on Dedinj, but building their own houses with their own means. Because in the country, a good host always wants to build a house for both his son and his grandson, and that's how the family gets bigger, but, unfortunately, it's getting weaker. In most cases, Mr. Seselj also said that the hard work abroad also earned money, so they also made a little bigger houses. I wish everyone had nice and big houses in the country. So they are being brought into an unequal position with people who have made it much easier, and now, let's say, they pay more property taxes. Moreover, in this group of people I counted people born in cities, both in Belgrade and in all major cities around Serbia. No one ever had the right to get an apartment in that big city: Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac, etc., not to count, because they always talked, they have some sort of accommodation, so they have no legal right to get an apartment. So they joined the building of the house, and now they have houses. In urbanised parts of Serbia in general, family construction is 5 plus one. The law in construction made people build a little bigger house. So ground floor, partner and floor. What's coming now? They pay an increased tax due to their adherence to urban conditions, and on the contrary, what's going on, I have to say on our Chukarica, where Mr. Covic now works, they make eight-ways and they have no obligation to pay taxes, because they can't even be registered as homeowners, because it's wild construction, etc. So they're not registered. So, in this case, honest citizens would be brought into an unequal position when it comes to property tax. I have later amendments in particular, and this is something in principle. I have to go back to what I said last night, briefly, on a cab ride. I have to say, some of them may know, and maybe they don't know, I was a high-ranking Belgrade taxi driver, and by the time we called him Communism, we demanded that a taxi vehicle enter the process, that taxi drivers be recognised as a means of working, and he should be free of taxes. So there's no sales tax when that vehicle is purchased. After these people work on income, they pay taxes. I said yesterday they're taxing without it. I'd like to welcome what's supposed to be a tax exemption for the purchase of a Sanitary Dialysis Vehicle. It is humane and you see that the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party, to which I belong, always want to praise what is good, not only to criticise. I have to refer to the amendment and addition of the Law on Local Self-Government. I wouldn't be talking about rates, contributions, etc., but to this general part, I'd just read something from article 80. Let me just get this straight. I agree that the decentralisation of certain provisions should be carried out, because lately municipalities, hands to heart, have been deprived of the right why citizens are very attached to the municipality. So there is a basis for decentralisation in this respect. But I can't make peace with something else, because there would be abuse, and yet I still have to take advantage of my Žarkova and Chukarica as an example. Let's say, "the community brings urban plans, edits the use of building land," and so on. You see, I was a council member of the Cuckoo Community, at the time of one commission. At that time, the entire "Film City" village was built in a wild way, and then the mayor was Nebojsa Covic. Afterwards, urbanisation was attempted, i.e. it was put into competition to determine the institutions that would draft the urban plan, and the settlement had already been raised. Now I'm afraid, by restoring the decentralisation of certain provisions from the jurisdiction of local self-government, given which people in certain municipalities are now ruling, we would allow them to now legalise what they once did illegally. I'm saying, this law on local self-government, I agree, we have to completely change and bring. I suggest that for one next session, one law on local self-government is constructively done.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3692	Dr. Vojislav Seselj has the word of the People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3693	Ladies and gentlemen, it's not about Covic. I don't want to talk about Covic today. I said, Covic will come in line for what Mr. Selakovic said. The past government has already introduced taxes and taxes to the maximum. It was already something that the people were very hard to bear. And we had to finance a lot of things because of late pensions, late childhood supplements, war destruction, etc. We have already reached the maximum and gone beyond the maximum, and that is why we have been severely punished by the people in the elections. This current government is taxing far more than we have ever dared to do. That's the point. Look what they're taxing now, which has never occurred to anyone before to tax. I must admit, here's a few compliments from Minister Djelic and his deputy, Dejan Popovic, that I don't turn out to be a constant critic. Minister Djelic reminds me of actor Srdjan Saper, and Dejan Popovic, his deputy, reminds me of late actor Taško Nacic. In one remarkable movie called "The Strangler Against the Strangler", they played great against each other and faked to choke. Now, what's the difference? Minister Djelic and his deputy, Dejan Popovic, are not against each other, but have joined together and they are not acting. They're the ones who strangle the whole people in Serbia with these laws. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3694	The word has a People's MP, Borisvoje Drakulovic, and after that, MP Dragan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3695	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to ask you, given that I rarely report, and in these ten minutes, I will use my right to tell you that I come from a place called the Hunter, where 15 respected hosts were arrested a few days ago, who left their families. This is about the point of the law, because it says here he's a member of 24. - Proposed tax laws on use, keeping and carrying certain goods. I don't understand that expression a bit. I think you're thinking about carrying guns, that it's actually that law. Let me tell you, other than being arrested in one Hollywood way, looking for weapons that, normally, were never found, you don't even know why, where they are and how convicted they are. I'm asking you to understand that part, because it's really embarrassing, because this reminds me of something that I'm going to remind you of, because there's one truth. In 1948, 155, again, were arrested in the same Lovcenec, in the case of Informbiro. Whether history repeats itself, whether the Dossage Authority is now taking over the role of IB or not, I don't know what it was called. I'm not sure that's correct and fair, but I would ask all MPs, as people, to consider your environments, to whom it can still happen or why it can still happen. I'm not defending anyone. If someone's guilty, let them answer, and let them know by what law, by which points of law and by which blame. In any case, the Hunter is patriotic, honest and true, ready to defend his Serbia. Let me tell you something else, if anyone was talking about this weapon, I have to say that the Serbian people, someone mentioned it, have sympathy for the weapons. We, originally from Montenegro, must say that we have a tradition of carrying a cougar, it's actually part of a folk costume. If anyone has a weapon, I don't know how or how to charge this tax. It says here that 900 dinars should be given to hold arms and 4,500 to carry weapons. That means 5,400 dinars. Someone here also mentioned, calculating that for 5 hectares of land, it takes 182,000 dinars per year of taxes. I think we're all going to have to go back to Germany slowly to pay that tax, because otherwise how to fill the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's all I'd like to thank you if I wasn't disturbing you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3696	The word is made by MP Dragan Pavlovic, and then by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3697	Ladies and gentlemen, it's been a few weeks since this major package of tax laws appeared in public. Taxes, by themselves, are not a popular thing. In developed countries, the battle in the elections is won on this topic. In any case, this unpopularity is always a good opportunity to criticise, but also to measure the position of power. I think that today we can realize that an attempt to intimidate citizens has failed from the great burdens and kidnapping of the new government. Already, the application of previously passed laws has been denied that there will be a major price escalation, shock for citizens and a major arrest of poor enterprises and home budgets anyway. The fact that all these laws were made public at the same time also allowed the general public to influence decisions. That's why it doesn't have to surprise the appearance of government amendments. It's a newspaper that points to a new relationship between government and citizens. The result of this communication means a new quality and new solution that the government has appreciated. Of course, a day - to - day marathon debate in the congregation should make a special contribution and quality to tax laws. However, we are in certain specific circumstances, in which the opposition is not only party to the former authorities in Parliament, but also people of the former authorities, and objectively, the credibility of the opposition is such that it is difficult to trust those who themselves are responsible for the economic and national disaster that they have brought our country into. Hence, in this debate, the defendants and the insults are adversaries, and the argument is often derived from the context, trying to distort the entire package, which has been revealed in good time and has been provided with an analysis. This package, which is now on the agenda, represents in some sense the laws of the future, except for the Financial transaction Act, which will be subject to verifications and likely reductions and points to the target group and the new authorities' intention to be burdened by tax procedures by luxury, richer, and to help the state and the role of the state to be more effective, to move from social prices to the categories of real social assistance. That's where he talks about the apartments of solidarity. Of course, I, like most MPs, agree with the fact that it is good to have money and build solidarity apartments. But it's hard to understand a country and its budget, which has failed to pay child benefits for more than a year, social aid, pensions, and some right that is very expensive. To build an apartment in Belgrade, the average citizen needs several lives. The apartment's too expensive. Other rights, which are far less, do not come true. It's a strange illogicality, but it's inevitable facts. The child was supposed to wait more than a year, when he was born, to get help. It's one budget, it's her or her, but priority should be given to those fundamental, fundamental rights that really mean existence. On the other hand, the right, given that the size of housing needs is far greater than it is built in that fund, raises the question of what we are all in. Since the cake is small and the needs are great, it is normal that those who are closer to that cake will have a better chance of achieving this one right. Building policy is probably a special topic. But anyway, whoever gets worth several hundred thousand marks, it's a lot. It is far more just that the state creates the same conditions for all, that by means of companies and banks, all under equal conditions solve housing problems, and that state dwellings can only be used as official or social, and cannot be subject to privileged conversion into private property. The entire arsenal of criticism is also referred to individual reliefs and privileged rates. This did not show appreciation for the arguments, which first moaned over school supplies and child clothes, and then on farmers, and now on hunters. It's so very convenient to express itself, but it's not going to that other fact, how much the authoring agencies have served just to pay off some other physical work, we all know that. A thousand cases a day have been tax avoidance in this way. There's no financial police that can determine that. The state when it determines the tax, the government, its authorities, should guarantee the achievement of that obligation, as it should guarantee the exercise of that right. When removing these reliefs and privileged rates, this fact was precisely taken into account, that full control would be achieved, and on the other hand why all the rich would benefit from these privileges, and on the other hand they would not fulfil social obligations. Since the social laws package is next, I think there will be opportunities, but it is clear that this protection and privileges are passed on from linear privileges, which are inefficient, which mean nothing, to the real social categories to which this is and how important assistance is. I want to say that this tax system replaces one tax system that we were exposed to not only at the time of hyperinflation, but also for the last few years, and that's that unoccupied masculine tax, when once the printing of money is linearly taxed by all citizens. Neither the government nor parliament decide the tax, narrow political circles decided. It was a direct impact of production, personal property. It was a blow that went to the debtors, which destroyed the successful, which made it impossible for every loan, every savings, and which was also unfair in some way, because it hit everything regardless, caused one great uncertainty on the market. As I have already said, it has been mentioned on several occasions that tax determination is meant, that state authorities guarantee rights, and they have also taken responsibility for the exercise of rights. I hope that the state authorities will be in the position of citizens, in the function of these rights and obligations, that they will no longer pursue those who make beautiful posters, that they will not serve to protect the authorities, but to protect the rights of citizens. I'm sure we can tell the citizens that if they don't pay their taxes, they can get a tax collector knocked on their door, but they sure as hell won't get a war caller knocked on their door. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3698	The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3699	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to take a brief look at a few legislative proposals that belong to this package that is being discussed in a unique manner. First, the property tax law, and in Article 7, I quote: the base of the property tax in agricultural and forest land, within the meaning of this law, is the fivefold amount of annual cadastrian income from that land. We've already heard yesterday in the debate that in the past five years, there has been no revaluation of this income from agricultural and forest land. If so, the government is aware that this is an extremely low cadastrian income, and it is also aware that the funds that can be raised for the budget are extremely low. I have a concrete proposal that farmers who process the country and whose only occupation and only source of income are free of this tax, that this tax does not apply to them. We are all aware that the village has aged, that the village is in an extremely difficult state, and on the other hand, that the village in the past 10 years has brought about a crisis and a burden of crisis, a burden of all these difficult years. The village fed our citizens during that period. I think this government and all of us here could make so many peasants, people who, I already said, work 18 hours a day to free them from this imposition, to make their hard work a little bit easier. Another bill I want to say a few words about is the law on tax on use, keeping and carrying goods. This law is the highlight of the political inconsistency and cynicism of this new government. A few years ago, when the previous government introduced taxes on cars, mobile phones and weapons, the opposition at the time, and the current government accused the government of taking action on the citizens' budget from all possible means, that it was illegally and unconstitutionally seducing taxes, impositions, etc. to our citizens. Now the stakes have changed and you've come to power. Now all they've criticised is returning it back to the citizens of Serbia, but no more as taxes, now they're paying it back as taxes. Now it's taxes. Now they're climbing out of the stained veins to prove to the people that it's all justified. I have to remind you that a few years ago, when the previous government introduced it, it had an excuse, because we were in a difficult situation. These funds were dedicated, and their intentions were strictly established to address social problems in this country. With DOS coming to power, I expected the funds, i.e. those fees to be abolished, as DOS announced in a pre-election campaign that it would enter into this country huge funds from foreign donations, that it would arrive from the West six billion dollars to help Serbia if the DOS came to power. DOS has come to power, and there is nothing to help, fees have been passed into laws and even doubled. What is also controversial in the bill's proposal, is the fact that just before the start of this session, the government had just changed some of its amendments, which it had set out in the original proposal. Namely, the fact that the government is very often and mass intervening with amendments to its legal proposals speaks in fact about the character of this government. The government releases legal proposals to the public, told them through all the media, and wait two days for it to feel the public's reaction, so when it realizes that the public is reacting negatively, then amends those proposals. In fact, it speaks of the true character of this government, whose goal is only to unrealize the projected budget of 130 billion dinars by not selecting funds. The finance minister said in his statement that the taxes that were introduced a few years ago were introduced by a secret, and that now these laws, i.e. taxes, are transparent. Mr. Minister, and then the government's taxes were introduced by its regulation, which was published in the Official Messenger, which all citizens of this country could read. So everything was transparent and clear back then. It was even more transparent at the time, because all government's moves were followed by the media at the time, and most of the media were in the hands of the opposition and the current authorities, both daily and local electronic media. Now the situation is very different. All the media are under your control and what they know, which is clear to everyone that it's negative, they're trying to ease and show as less negative. The third law regulates the tax on the profit fund. Article 2 states that the taxpayer is the taxpayer of the profit fund and a natural person who generates income from agriculture and forestry. In line with the proposal that I have already made for farmers to be exempt from the property tax, I propose that farmers or at least those who deal exclusively with the processing of the country, the only source of income, be free from paying this obligation, that is, this tax. Today, the process of the country is the least attractive profession and for that very reason, and given the fact that our village is getting older, let's all make a little effort together here and help the villagers by freeing them from these taxes, let's help them while they still have them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3700	The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3701	On these five legislative proposals presented by the government, the minister gave an explanation that is not different from his previous explanations. In short, those explanations might come to mind that he was telling a general story, pointing to some general places, with a historical-chronological review of what had happened over the past year and occasionally with commercial videos of a commercial house called the "apple". That's how I realized all your performances. It's hard to understand him, and especially you, a man can't even warn you. What's the fact is that you keep throwing dust in your eyes and still explaining to the people how he's going to be better, just to be patient. Quickly, gentlemen, you forget your promises. You promised the people big investments would begin in April, capital would arrive, and that would be progress. That's progress in your vision, you announced it. Now that you've seen that there's nothing of it, that of those promises you've made to the people there's nothing, you've started with old, famous, recognizable methods. From before, this method was seen. It is based on monetary, fiscal and price policies. All of this is based on one assumption brought earlier by the governor of the National Bank, this secikes, which falls with long pipes into the National Bank, Dinkic. His conjecture, which you have made with joint efforts, that there are about three billion marks in the people, among the citizens of Serbia, in the reserve, it is said, in the straws. How do you get those three billion marks? The simplest, already tried methods, monetary, fiscal and price policies. That's exactly what's on the scene. As far as monetary policy is concerned, you've stabilized the dinar with administrative methods by determining the parity to the German mark that one brand is 30 dinars and you hold it. Of course, Dinkic now came up and said, "That price and that course is variable." Why the variable? For the simple reason to serve as another additional method to extract the foreign reserves that are in the people. Secondly, the fiscal policy under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is just being reviewed in these laws. You taxed everything. There's nothing else you haven't hit the tax on. Even on what was clearly defined by the law that was in the domain of a taxi, you put a tax, against the law. What law obliges you? Your defense of these legal proposals is weak. Minister, that story is called in the people, which you speak, in general, with general places, is called a hollow constructive story. There's nothing from that story, and that story doesn't drink water. The people brought you, voted for you to be better, you promised him that. The question arises, when it would facilitate the tax obligations of citizens, where do these funds come from? Yesterday, we reminded you of a million-and-seven hundred thousand Swiss francs, received by Kostunica from the Libyan government on behalf of the help. You already called BK last night...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3702	Mr. Mircic, don't say anything from this pay phone that's not on the agenda, but you know very well that it's explained by a special statement and don't pack, abuse a pay phone for such nonsense.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3703	You're nervous, Mr. President. You're really nervous. I would like to explain, I am discussing these legal proposals in principle, citing examples, led by the prime minister's story that it is easy for the opposition to tell what the right-hand side of the budget will be, and it does not say where it will fill the left-hand side. Here, I'm making a suggestion, and I'm giving you an example, and that's what's hitting you about this check because it's your president. I don't doubt fair intentions, but I just want to confirm that you reacted quickly and found those millions and seven hundred thousand Swiss francs, explaining that it was received by the Republic Government. That's how it was explained that the government distributed it to the resolution ministries. Now the key question is, where's $6 billion? The explanation is that he didn't give you the West. Who's going to believe you? Every DOS leader in the election campaign repeated several times -- just to leave the regime, let us come and here's six billion dollars. The most prominent was Minister Batic. He swore that the moment they came to power. . .
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3704	Mr. Mircic, please indeed, for the second time I warn you, return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3705	Leave what doesn't matter to you, it's big financial resources. He claimed the moment he came to power that six billion dollars was already in Yugoslavia. On the TV "Palma", on one show to deny the opposite side, he said, "Don't convince me," those are the words of Minister Batic, he said -- I personally attended when the contract and agreement were signed on it. First you lied and who else will believe you, that the money didn't come. I honestly doubt that money ended up with Vladan Batic, since he was the most persistent.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3706	Mr. Mircic, I take your word. You haven't said a word in seven minutes about what's on the agenda. You are required to come down from the pay phone, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please get off the phone. The second part of the Rules of Procedure is a break in the work of the Assembly. I'm taking a break from 10 minutes. [[After a break.]] Please set the quorum for the session. I figure we can keep working. The word has a folk MP, Stevan Kesejic, and after that, MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3708	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I am very surprised that you took away my colleague Milorad Mircic's word, above all because I believe he was talking about the revenue side. I also want to talk about the revenue side, first of all, because Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic said that the Serbian Radical Party is obstructing and that the government should be formed as soon as possible, and that the donations from Europe will arrive. I didn't miss, I'm talking about the revenue side right now. So, those six billion that we've been counting on, we now want to build into laws. In such a way as to relieve citizens of the burdens that you want through these laws to introduce. Also, I will give only a brief explanation and continue my presentation, but I must say, it is not appropriate for SRS MPs to be denied their style of exposure and the way of exposure. Our way and style of exposure are such that what comes from information here, we come here and say, not like this in your way, how you do it, "transparent." So we came up with information that it's about a million and 600,000 Swiss francs, and of course, this is the style of your work. I also think you need this psychologist who came out here to diagnose. But I don't think you need a diagnosis. From this, from laughing, from banging, to crying, you know how certain people behave. The characteristics of your behavior may...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3709	Mr. Keseiæ, it's for Jovan Cvijic, let's stand up...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3710	The whole time I was talking about the law in principle, I was talking about the revenue side, and I think that this package of laws, proposed to Serbian citizens, represents a new slap, is an additional burden that Serbian citizens will not be able to pay. This package of laws, which DOS's majority swept into this one item of the agenda, at seven points, will not represent any additional monetary expenditure for Serbian citizens. Why won't they? Because they won't have anything to pay from. What's waiting for them? They're in for kidnapping and skin yelling and it's going to be paying these taxes that are here with this package of legal taxes proposed. Until now, laws have been taxed on citizens who were able to pay certain taxes because they were taxed on taxpayers who were in a working relationship and made some income. These laws, above all by the property tax law, the law on the use, maintenance and carrying of goods, as well as the housing law, will also tax those citizens who do not have permanent incomes, so they will have to cope with how these obligations will be paid to the state. They will pay them in such a way that they will be persecuted, sued and, of course, if the sanctions provided for by this law cannot be implemented, they will be closed. Minister Djelic is here today to us, addressing us before we started discussing this legal package, he said - these are not the biggest taxes. I would agree with that finding of his. These really aren't the biggest taxes, the biggest taxes have already burdened the citizens to this extent, so these taxes, in fact, essentially don't mean much to the budget, but to the citizens a lot. The illustrations work, say, one hard worker works all day long, say in the construction profession, pushes the cart all day, wears bricks, etc. And he's taking it somehow until he gets home. When he takes a pillow into his hands, he falls with him. So these laws, though seemingly not a great burden, for our citizens will be to this extent great that they will fall from the burden of these taxes. Also, Minister Djelic said that the citizens' arrest should be public and solemn. Publicly, we have seen how public it is when you turn off the power from the SRS, and solemnly, I hope it will not be as solemn as it was, if Mr. Minister was watching, in Croatia, when Croatia was freed, when they sang - Danke Dojchland, that we Serbs will not have to sing - NATO Danke. If the law, and these legal packages that Minister Djelic has proposed to us here, should be a lesson from this celebration he spoke of, from this ceremony, then such a ceremony of Serbs never wanted. I'm afraid after such a ceremony, the Serbs won't stay. The laws that are wrinkled in this package have a common constant. It's taxation of hollow and empty. If the government thinks they're going to fill the budget, and thus provide for the expenditure she predicted, from mobile phones, boats, hunting and sports weapons, the skinny pig will be for next Christmas. The strictly dedicated funds so far have been abolished in the Republic of Fund for the Construction of Apartments. The funds are given to the local self-government, to allocate funds for solid construction according to its intent. And how many of these solidarity apartments do you think will be built in the municipality? Very little, in a very small number of municipalities. Since we know what experience is in most local self-government, where the former coalition is in power together, and now DOS government, we fear that the funds are just being channelled towards the intention of strengthening local self-government, but political rather than for citizens to benefit from what these funds will be directed towards local self-government, because I believe that these solidarity apartments will be nothing. The funds, which are primarily provided for local self-government to deploy them for apartments of solidarity from 0.3% to 1%, do not seem to be large funds, but it means a lot to fighters and families of dead warriors, or fighters in past wars. And, of those apartments, there'll be nothing left. Because, for example, if the local self-governments in most cities, and now I'm going to talk about that area that I know, so, about Vojvodina, more specifically about the West-Baba County, wanted to help those families of the dead fighters, they'd be able to give them crying and today they could build family buildings, if they wanted to. There are examples, however, that they didn't even give out crying even though the Republic invested in building solidarity apartments and there was a great deal of pain until some local powerful men persuaded them to give some acres of land for this purpose. I am very afraid, too, that these funds are being put into the hands of Nenada Canka and Dragan Veselinov, where they have jurisdiction, in these municipalities, because they will actually be on track and the first step towards separatism. At the very end, the small amount of funding is for these items, which was apostrophe of Minister Djelic, from mobile phones, boats, to rifles, from which the government thinks it pays salaries for teachers, teachers, pensioners and other social categories. There's no way they're gonna raise the funds you've predicted to fill the state budget through these laws. You're no good at this, DOS. A people who have not learned your deception will rebel when you apply these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3711	The word is by MP Borislav Pelevic, first call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3712	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Unity Party will not vote for this package of tax laws for the same reasons it has not voted for either the budget or the other tax laws already adopted in the Serbian Parliament. It is obvious that the government had no regard for those living on the brink of existence when collecting funds to fill the budget. She obviously had no understanding of the economy, which is already under collapse, or in the most part. The Serbian Unity Party supports taxing the richest individuals in Serbia, those who have villas, who have expensive cars, who have yachts, but few. And it won't hurt them much, because a few thousand marks, how much they have to pay at the end of each year or at the beginning of the next year, won't put too much weight on them. But that's why several hundred marks they have to pay, after the adoption of these legal projects, will be the poorest citizens of this country and how to burden them, and how they will endanger their standard of living. It's not just about one tax. When these citizens pay taxes on the apartment, on the car, on the beach, on the garage, and on everything else provided for in these legal projects, very little will be left for them to survive. As for the apartments, we are about to tax the largest apartments and the most luxurious villas, but we should not forget the category of citizens, not only in Belgrade, but in all of Serbia, who in some happy times received or bought an apartment that is large squares, but now live in it as very poor citizens, as a poor old middle class. What about those citizens? Should they also be punished because they live in large apartments or should they be forced to sell these apartments for small amounts of money and thus change their whole lives? I don't think that's right and that the Government, unfortunately, didn't consider it when she proposed these laws. It's the same with cars. It is fortunate that under pressure from the opposition's amendment or under public pressure, the government has still corrected some members of these laws, especially when it comes to the standards of the poorest citizens of our country. That's something to say goodbye to. It's okay. But the government should say it has done so under public pressure and pressure from many amendments, not only to be amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, respecting all that Mr Djelic has done in passing these laws. Also, the tax on the Profit Fund is projected at 3.5%. It's a new ploy for companies. It's hard for companies to endure another imposition. I understand the government's desire to decentralisation cities and to provide material conditions to these municipalities that they can work, but at the same time, it should be taken into account that these cities, municipalities, will always look to fill their budget first and make budget expenditures, and only then do something useful for their citizens, such as infrastructure or, say, building apartments of solidarity. The employment law and the rights of unemployed persons are very restrictive. It's a member of the former law, who says that workers receive unemployment benefits after 30 years of employment, so those who got fired, were either a technological surplus, or were in a state of unemployment after 30 years of work, the previous law allowed them to receive benefits during unemployment until they were employed or until they met the conditions for retirement. This law does not foresee it, but says those who have compensation and have 25 years and over of internships, and are unemployed, can receive compensation for that time of unemployment only for two years, means 24 months. I'm asking you -- who's going to hire an employer, a social, a state or a private employee or a worker, a clerk or an employee, who turned 50 and over. No one will, believe me. Then what do you do with people like that? They simply stay out of retirement after two years and no unemployment benefits. The government hasn't heard anything like this, and it seems to me that it might, and I'd be happy if the minister said it was an oversight. It's really hard to hire a man today who's over 50 years old, while lifting the right to receive unemployment benefits. What will happen, for example, with workers when the privatisation law is passed, which will inevitably lead to an even greater growth in unemployment, or the layoff of many workers. There are various estimates of economic experts - whether it will be 300,000, 500,000 or millions of new unemployed. What are we gonna do with these people in that case, if they were 25 years old and over? The same thing will happen and they will have the same fate. So, they won't receive benefits during unemployment, and at the same time they won't get conditions for retirement. I think the government would have to fix this and do everything in order to take care of that category of unemployed, which is hard anyway, just because they don't work and they can't make enough money, because they're in a state of social need, practically, not in a state of the person who lives off his profits. All of these are reasons, besides everyone else, that I will talk about in other reports, which is why the Soviet Union will not vote for the adoption of tax laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3713	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3714	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are going to pass another package of laws without creating an ambience so that we can collect all these future obligations, which you will create for ordinary people in Serbia. Mr. Djelic said he asked these, they and he conducted various consultations to propose such a law. I argue, and I am sure that Mr. Djelic did not ask the factory worker, the ordinary farmer, the pensioner, did not ask the director of the Jagodina cable factory, Novi Sad, did not ask the director of IMT, did not ask the Director of the flag in Kragujevac and did not ask the director of the "First Five-year-old" in Trstenik. Such people, who do this kind of work and who are professional and competent to ask and deliver their opinions. Yesterday, Mr. Minister didn't answer the question I asked him about agriculture, and today I'm going to ask him if he knows what it means when he comes on the 27th day of the month, when the director of a factory, which has 7,000 workers, has not charged all the obligations from customers, and where will the workers receive on time pay? Mr. Minister argues he was never a taxpayer and was never a financial director in Serbia. The only thing that's good is that he's theoretically well-explained, when we listen to him, it seems to be good, and we're practically going to feel these days, that it's going to be very harmful to the citizens. Also, gentlemen, I can't understand that no MP from the DOS has submitted amendments other than Mr Mamula, who has given more amendments, similar to that given by the Soviet Union? We expected that Mr. Mamula's amendment to be accepted was rejected. I don't know why, there's a lot of smart people here. I also cannot understand that someone about agriculture is making a package of laws, pushing their hand directly into the pocket of a agricultural producer, such as Mr. Ceda Jovanovic. Yesterday he talks about agriculture and says that those tax rates are not high, gentlemen, and he was born on the seventh floor, in the building, and he never entered the field, and he only saw the field when it landed at the Belgrade airport, from the plane. Also, the Minister of Agriculture has no idea, gentlemen, about agriculture. I'll bring him four jars tomorrow. I'm going to put oatmeal in one jar, in another barley, in the third grain, in the fourth corn, and I'm going to ask him what the grain is, gentlemen. He won't know how to answer, I'm telling you. Mr. Djelic says in his presentation this morning, gentlemen, it is done everywhere, in all countries, and several countries that were in transformation had, he said, this programme and this programme were successful today. And Mr. Minister forgot that Serbia and Yugoslavia had sanctions and that Serbia was at war, and today Serbia is at war, and that for this programme, to be implemented, Mr. Minister must first create conditions, that wages increase, that farmers can live on their products and be good to everyone, and later to collect all of this which you are about to adopt today. Mr. Minister says this morning in his presentation -- it is necessary to charge taxes for villas on Didinj - and how. And then he says, a smaller tax will be for peasants and for those workers, and a bigger tax will be for villas on Dedinj. Well, of course there must be categories, gentlemen, first, second and tenth categories. But, a peasant, an ordinary worker, an educational worker, turned blind, a cyclist, we can't, and we don't have anywhere to charge him a tax on a house he bloody acquired. And I can't understand, either I or the SS, that you didn't want to adopt today a single amendment that we have proposed, and as far as the taxpayer is concerned, if the taxpayer owes the state and the state owes it, that there's no way to make a forced payment by day, by night, when a man sleeps, etc. You said no. In the hall, a number of MPs say we're right, but that party discipline has to be pressed by that red button. Gun tax, I don't think that's correct. We have proposed many amendments, gentlemen, and it took over 300 amendments to propose, but there is no point in proposing so many amendments and we do not want to report for discussion all the time. However, we also wanted to suggest that, from the day this law comes into force, those who buy guns and weapons pay taxes to the state, not those to whom the weapons have been found, gentlemen. They have no place to pay taxes, and they have no one to sell those guns they have. The Serbian Unity Party, as said by the president, Professor Borislav Pelevic, will not support this package proposed by the government, and I would ask Mr. Djelic to explain to me - did he ever in his life secure 200 salaries in one month and did he ever pay this country tax as a private entrepreneur, or as a financial director in a company? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3715	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3716	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to tell you in a slightly different way about your tax code package than the way others have spoken today and the previous days. I'll try to look back and talk somehow from your perspective, the way you used to say it, the way you used to tell your political views. The Serbian Radical Party is responsible for the mobile phone tax, the SRS is responsible for the increase in car registration taxes and other taxes. In your actions, on your media, nothing but the words of criticism, reviling, swearing and political horror for that could be heard. It was all talked about every day, talking about how it would end the moment the DOS came to power, when you took the helm of the state into your hands, as if these fees were going somewhere else, as if they were taken home by Vojislav Seselj, or Alexander Vukic, or someone else, as if someone didn't want to give it to the citizens of Serbia, but to others. I'll explain everything. I'll get to it. But don't be nervous at all, and you'll see and hear how much you're lying. As for your proposal for tax laws, first of all, these proposals do not encourage work, do not encourage development of private or any other enterprise in Serbia. Let me give you an example. I worked in London for a while. My employer, a certain Mr. Sagar, had to pay his taxes after a year or after 10 to 11 months. If he paid taxes, he would always buy one or two vans or one truck, which was refused by the total amount of taxes, because he invested in material assets and capital, or encouraged production. In every normal country, it is taxed in such a way as to encourage further development, both in production and in trade, and in any other kind of social activity. What's happening today under your tax laws is something that's completely the opposite, something that's completely the other way around. It destabilizes almost everything. Even the natural desire of a man to earn, to gain something, and to invest that money in something, especially those who do business. It's something that poses a huge danger to our country in the future. I think it's something you don't want to talk about or want to hear about. Taxes are being introduced on everything. Someone in New Belgrade wrote a graphite that reads, "Dead Aunt Tax." It's become almost the most interesting thing to you. If they're nervous, I'd ask Mr. President to warn them or go to this pay phone, otherwise they don't have the guts or the brains to do anything or say anything from here. [[Sagar.]] The only thing they're up against is they're trying to say something from the scene, they're going to get somebody, eventually, to spoil the flow of thought or concentration. I'd point out those taxes you promised to cancel. Not only did you not lift them, but you doubled them, doubled them, tripled them, tripled them. Some have increased by as much as 1,000 percent. Taxes and taxes are paid on things they've never been paid for. They didn't pay in this country. A tax, or tax, is paid on motorless boats, up to four metres, or - as the gentleman shouts up - on the jeeps of the president of the DOS parliamentary group. I'm saying this because I don't know anyone else with a jeep. The point is something else. They'll have to talk about it and explain where it came from. One comes, the other comes, maybe the third comes. I didn't see any of the radicals have a jeep. As for everything else you have proposed and done, everything is slightly wrong and different from what you promised. Your reforms have turned into criminal charges, democratic changes have turned into arrests and nothing else. Absolutely nothing else. I want to tell you one thing. I know that's what I've been saying to someone else. Some of them told me the same thing. But I have to tell you today. Do not think that you will achieve everything by doing so or by leading the hunt and arresting political opponents. You won't. It'll come back to you as a boomerang. Think about the fact that you won't be in power for 100 years, like no one was. No one will ever be. The point is, you should take care of it. The dirty campaign led to cover up the difficult situation, to cover up everything that is brought against the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is your picture and opportunity. That's why it takes every day to talk about a hundred other things, about a thousand other things, just not what really represents the problems of our people. I heard yesterday, I wasn't there, I found out, I heard it was said by mistake. They told me it wasn't malicious. There's a lot of added squares around someone's apartment. It's a lot added. Someone said about my apartment that it was an apartment of 180 m2. It's not that close. Don't worry, members of the DOS government got much bigger villas and apartments from the government. For example, Momcilo Perišić, Deputy Prime Minister, and Nebojsa Covic of the SPS, in an elite settlement. There's no need to talk about it that way and worry so much. It's just wrong for me that some of them who were at my house, and from your ranks, who I'm fond of acquaintances or even friends, haven't been warned like that and said that something like that isn't true. They didn't tell them something like that wasn't true.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3717	That's not on the agenda, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3718	I want to say a few more sentences. All this is happening, all this campaign you run every time someone as a political opponent tells you something you don't like, then in this way you abuse Peter Panic, so you call some from Loznica, who you'll tell you they'll play some Serbian radical party that no one has ever heard of or seen. I'm afraid everything you do will come back to you in the same or much worse way. I call on you to tell the people and point out the fact that it's going to cost them, how much trouble they're going to have, how these people are going to pay you, why people are going to have to single out that much money for a four-foot boat without a motorcycle, why they're going to have to spend so much money for a 20-year-old Mercedes, which has 3,000 cubics, so they're going to have to allocate 30,000 dinars. That's the essence of the story. That's what you don't want to talk to the people about and you don't want to talk about it at all in the people. I'll tell you something else. Many thus campaigned against the Serbian Radical Party. Once, Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic said well, when we were arrested by representatives of the Socialist Party of Serbia, that the radicals were tough. I'm warning you now. (A voice from the O.R.: Kilavi. I warn you that we are indeed a very tough political party. Since, unlike you, who are quite sneezing, on the phone booth, I must tell you that we will endure all your pressures and all your attacks. As I have been in Montenegro for quite some time, I may also release you from my presence for a long time. I've got to tell you something about radicals, which is, "It's a tough fruit nut weird, it doesn't break it, it breaks its teeth."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3719	There is a word from the MP of the people, Natasa Jovanovic, followed by the MP of the people, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3720	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President of the National Assembly, a package of tax laws that was united in the principle debate at hand. The 5-11th agenda proposed is just a continuation of the tax, financial, economic and any other agony offered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Mr Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Finance and Economy. That's the name of that ministry. That the passions were arousing the moment when the Secretary General and MP of our party Mr. Aleksandar Vukic began to speak, and you, Mr. President, interrupted him, even though he spoke truthfully and truthfully about what the Dossage Authority was doing in Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. You've shown your reactions. It is true that you are daily producing huge lies across all the media that you control in our country, starting with local radio stations and television, via DOS, through all the daily newspapers, literally everything is under your control, where a bunch of disgusting, most disgusting lies are given to both the president of our party and the Serbian radicals, and you are misleading the conscious public for everything you suggest here, as if the people were stupid, as if they were not following these assembly sessions and did not see what taxes you are offering us, what you will vote with the pressure on the green button and what effect they will have on the people. And if a miracle ever happened in the right sense of words, it shows today's number of newspapers that are also under your control. Today, on Wednesday, April 11th, "The Voice of the Public" published a huge title, with huge letters, with striking letters -- Seselj, unfortunately, is right. There is also talk of the way of the presentation and the arguments that Professor Vojislav Seselj made for you during the first item of the agenda, when you made the choice of holders of judicial functions. However, those who have made this newspaper and your disregard for this title have passed on about Serbian radicals and our president. They forgot something that's a notorious fact, which is that in the extension, or in the subtitle it should stand - Seselj is, instead of "unfortunately", right as always, as always when from this pay phone, like all MPs of the SRS, speaking the language of facts, arguments, unlike you who cannot live, you have nightmares of your own lies. Melt and choke in the "yellow daily press", which you read all day long here, and today one of the MPs, who doesn't understand what's going on here and what's on the agenda, which, therefore, is in the misunderstanding and non-disclosure of these tax laws, waved the unfortunate in front of the camera here, saying that a Sunday paper, which is also under the direct control of Zoran Djindjic himself, invents all sorts of things through the apostates of the Serbian Radical Party. You know, it's easy for you to place such fiction, but it won't pass in the people and it won't pass in us. Any attempt to distract us, to dare, perhaps, to push even more directly against the SRS, will cost you a lot. When I say this to you as a member of the weaker, conditionally said, half of us are in this assembly, how will the Serbian radicals react throughout Serbia, if you dare to do so. As for the tax laws package, it is noticeable as well as the adoption and budget adoption of the Transport Tax Act, the excise duties, that you have not taken care of the wider layer of the population at all, and through the discussion in the details of the amendments we have given, it will be seen that the proposaler, the Serbian Government and the resolution minister have not made tax reliefs for many categories of inhabitants. But what's interesting, and what's interesting about DOS, is that you're so obsessed with lies from all kinds of newspapers and your own kind of weird, probably, stories of each other, you haven't read one unmistakable explanation of the reason for passing the law, which is literally prescribed in every law. It is said at first that the economic and political situation in our country, in the past period, has been very difficult, and in front of the promoter there is Bozidar Djelic, who probably knows how difficult it has been for us for the past ten years. Even at the tenth point of the agenda as a proposing, Justice Minister Vladan Batic, who appeared before the end of the session, and all these laws, all these proposals speak exactly about the fact that you were unable to make a single law. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government is nothing more than a alignment with the Law on Public Revenue and Expension, where you gave a much greater opportunity to local self-governments, which will now affect far more than citizens and from the taxes you have prescribed, so the entire property tax will belong to local self-governments, which they will pour into their huge municipal budgets, and also income from a tax on a fund of up to 3.5%. He said today, Mr Djelic, that the government has given such amendments, and we are Serbian radicals, that the tax on the fund will be reduced. You know, we're no prophet, so let's know in advance when we didn't get that material, what happens to you in the meantime, what kind of structures you're building in your head, what you're capable of doing. All we know is that the amount of 3.5% on the profit fund, on all these commitments you've given us, which clearly say, is the law defined that municipalities can write a smaller rate, which I don't believe they'll do and dispose of those funds for the development of municipal infrastructure, for the construction of apartments of solidarity and for the provision of citizens in the territory of the municipality or of the city. Mr Batic, likely, in order to collect some "proof", all of these are hollow and empty stories, had no, for these two months, time, to now, as a resolution minister, deal with the future law on local self-government. When the agenda was announced in public, from various services from the Shumadian district, lawyers, economists, from the Chamber, they called me and asked about what kind of law on local self-government, what kind of changes they were. However, it turned out to be nothing else -- a change of two or three members -- and Mr Batic is probably, alone, aware that a better law on local self-government cannot make up than the previous government, in which the SRS participated and where the resolution minister was Mrs Gordana Pop - Lazic. So don't bother. As far as these tax laws are concerned, they clearly show that you, not only intend to continue robbing citizens, but you're trying to distract yourself by doing so, how you're going through these tax rates to catch something that can't be charged. Today you laughed at the fact that, as a legislator, you provided for taxpayers to be sanctioned at night and that forced payment was made at night. I really don't understand how none of you have thought of it before, how Minister Batic himself did not help you when you made up the budget, or that you said, out of all these taxes that you would single out one item to buy those phantoms that your so-called specials for the whole government had to put on their heads. It would absolutely make sense. I imagine Mr. Batic with a phantom on his head and that he has eye and mouth slits and that, together with other members of the government, he makes it clear that he'll be a real mugging organization to rob the people. Mr. President, I speak to you on purpose and do not make a mistake, because when the other MPs tell you, Mr. President, I really don't understand it. I know who my president is, and as far as you're concerned, you should be keeping an eye on Article 28. The Rules of Procedure, to ensure that order is observed in the Hall, that speakers are respected and heard with caution. The ridiculous Olympics, which takes place among DOS MPs, will not do you any good either. It's easy for what he doesn't understand or try to do, if he's not very professional in every area or his own. At least your head of the parliamentary group is trying, he's reading something, he's watching even though he has the opposition. By the way, I haven't been able to track last night's show on Kragujevac TV, which is funded from the budget, and many apartments can't be built on the territory of that municipality, but I heard that Slobodan Vuksanovic was on TV and said that his party disagrees with many proposals from the tax laws package. So already the first rats show up leaving a sinking ship called DOS. Nothing will help you, because the people will punish you, at least soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3721	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, I would like to point out, first of all, that the draft company tax law was not part of the relevant factors and competent authorities. First of all, it was necessary for employers, unions and governments to participate in this law. So we have a law in which we have not heard the opinion of the union, nor have we heard the opinion of employers, which is decisive and should have been approached that way and thus to make a good law. First, to be referred to a public debate, and to hear opinions and others, and thus we would have one valid law that should be sent to Parliament for adoption. In close connection with the proposal for this law, the laws of the agenda for this assembly, such as: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act. The draft of all these system laws was to be joined in collaboration with all relevant entities, and above all, with trade unions and employers. That is why I believe that this bill should be withdrawn as soon as possible, and that it should be given a new design, so that employers, trade unions and governments can be made known in this way. Mr. Djelic, there's a serious problem here. Ten days ago, we had 700,000 workers who took the one-hour strike. It's not to be ignored if at the same time you strike 700,000 workers. That fact must be respected and I believe that you've missed a great opportunity to hear both workers and unions, what they think about preparing, making and adopting these tax laws. In view of the proposal for a law on property tax, ladies and gentlemen, MPs in a number of tax laws that have been adopted and should be adopted in this House have no segment, without the government of the Republic of Serbia putting its hand in the pocket of our citizens. This bill is so comprehensive that many of our citizens will turn their heads when they get solutions for paying taxes on property, inheritance taxes and gifts, as well as taxes on the transfer of absolute rights. We, MPs, have great responsibility to our citizens when we pass these sensitive laws, which are practically taxing everything but the air. I understand the government's need to ensure budget filling, but I cannot accept that the taxation of citizens' assets goes so far that citizens' property taxes will be the basis for filling the Republic of Serbia's budget. The new government has promised Serbian citizens the rule of law, a better life for citizens, and that a number of billions of dollars will arrive in our country, many have believed, so here I am also wondering what to do with these aids and donations, why not start the production process and make production the only basis for budgeting. Now that we're considering the property tax bill, I can see that the budget has to be filled by citizens whose pockets are almost empty. I don't think many of our citizens will be able to pay those huge taxes and taxes, not because they don't want to, but because they don't have where to come from. The additional burden on the Republic of Serbia's budget is also the fact that Serbia is devoting large funds to fill the federal budget. I can see that the least of our citizens' ability to pay these huge taxes has been taken care of. We Serbian radicals are against these tax laws, which practically tighten our citizens' belts very worried about their existence. The proposal for a law on local self-government, which stipulates that municipalities can cut taxes of 3.5%, opens up a broad possibility that municipalities, using the norms of this law, will maximum and mass determine and cut taxes at these heights. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in addition, have another problem, by giving local communities the opportunity to transfer the funds to their jury accounts, to have them own. Local self-government and municipalities should be given the opportunity to dispose of these funds, and it is not possible for local communities to have this possibility of being able to dispose of the funds, because there can be great abuses, because the local communities, as we know, were the products of Edward Cardell and the former communist regime. I believe that municipalities should be the ones to have and to control where funds go from budgets, contributions or taxis that citizens single out. What I wanted to say to Minister Djelic and speak to him personally, I would be pleased if this government were able to employ only as many citizens throughout Serbia, as the citizens of Paris are employed, from which Mr Djelic comes. However, I am sorry that Minister Djelic has failed to visit many of our country's ends at this time, to see for himself and to talk to the citizens, to gain an impression and to hear if the citizens will be able to withstand this kind of tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-11-0.u3722	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're working on it tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. According to official records, 107 MPs are present. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards. (Leila Ruzdić, from the site: I suggest we count ourselves because there are more of us in the hall. ) I find that by applying the electronic system we have a quorum and that we can continue to work. Before I inform you of the absence of the MPs, I should inform you that the session of the Finance Committee will be held at the session session in Hall 73 on the third floor. I would like to inform you that I have granted my leave to the following MPs: Živanko Radovančev, Branislav Pomoriško, Predrag Stojanović, Dragan Milentijevic, Milos Radivojčević, Dusan Cvetkovic, Jovanovic Todorovic, Dusan Golubovic, Velimir Živojinovic, Ratimir Svirčević, Dragan Lazic, Savi Popadic. Before noon, Neda Arnerić, Srda Popovic, Pal Shandor, Milan Markovic, Vukosav Tomaševic, Stanko Kovacevic and Branislav Kovacevic are away. George Mamula has announced a delay. I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to be attended by the President, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. He has the word of Deputy Chief of Parliament Mr Popovic.
