ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3220	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, respected journalists, said Mr. Djelic last night that there was a time bomb in Serbia's heart. It's in the heart of Serbia. The day before yesterday was celebrated 186 years since the rise of the Second Serbian uprising. Of course, Mr. Svetovic did not have the strength to call me, although I was born there, although I attended a primary school called "Such a Uprising", although Milos Barjaktar, Sima Barajli -- my chukundeda. Thank you, Mr. Salesman. The draft income tax law is on the agenda. Before that, I would like to join what was written in the letter and directed by Mr Mitic from Lebanon, and I have also indicated four or five times from this pay phone that at some point, at least 100 MPs do not attend this session, or these sessions. As far as the law itself is concerned, a large number of debaters and a large number of amendments suggest that this project, in the opinion of a large number of people, did not look at the overall issue and the number of amendments that we are going to discuss here today and tomorrow, suggest that there was insufficient consideration of the fundamental interests of the citizens and the state of Serbia. I would refer to chapter eight - Taxes on other incomes, applies to other revenues, and is defined in Article 85. Among other things, it says here - compensation related to the execution of defence, civil protection and protection against natural disasters. No one's unbalanced behavior can get me out of balance so you can continue, there's no problem. This provision, this sentence, makes a few things very important, if this law is passed. We have, unfortunately, had multiple problems with a sign of financial resources, with those people who participated in direct defence affairs, not to mention it here, because it is a difficult, sad and tragic memory of what was happening in Serbia. For this opportunity, I'm going to say something quite concrete about the part of receiving that belongs to people, who are engaged in removing the consequences, or preventing the elemental accidents, and it's about the anti-urban shooters. The Republic hydrometeorological institution is a competent republican institution which is concerned that a large number of people in Serbia receive an adequate fee for six months of engagement, i.e. a reward for preparedness and compensation for fear, since it is quite delicate, a very difficult job that obliges people to be at home or on the radio for six months from 1 May to 1 September. Some municipalities such as Cacak continue, or extend with good practice from 10 years ago, anti-urban shooters, provide as much funds as they receive from the republican budget. Under the bill of this law, these assets would be taxed at a rate of 20%, so one-fifth. I have to say, it's very hard to find people to do this job, not because of this fee, but because of the sense of responsibility for their summers and their neighbours' flights. If this is adopted as suggested, we're going to lose people, and I'm going to say that some of them have been doing it for more than 20 years and we just can't find others. That's why I think this is unnecessary here, and I think that if this is adopted by Article 85, we have a real consequence of how to animate a number of people, to deal with this business. As for real estate tax, home tax, that's what I want to bring into context, with some time behind us. Houses in Serbia were mostly made by people who had no chance of getting an apartment from a state or anyone else. In those houses, in every brick and every crep, every dinar and so on was installed. a warm meal, Mr. Minister, and every dinar regress for an annual vacation. These people didn't go on vacations, they didn't go to winters, they didn't have fun, they mostly spent two decades building their own house for themselves and their family. Today, they should pay taxes on something that they cannot commercialize, something that cannot be employed economically, and in this way we punish these citizens twice. First by not getting a social apartment as some others, then making them pay taxes on what others have received on a gift. So there is no principle of justice and there is no principle of evenness. I'm a little afraid of a provision that defines the instruments and conditions of forced collection. It says that forced charge can be made at night in some cases. So, they come some night, they scare you, and they take you there, to say the folk poet, "where the memmel is being strangled," and I don't see why this thing can't be regulated differently in a normal procedure, during the day, during working hours, as usual. This is an exception, but by being in the bill, it speaks enough of what the legislator is up to. I also join those MPs who have submitted amendments or talked here about taxing a warm meal, a regress, travel expenses, but since I have also submitted an amendment to it, I will say something about it when that amendment comes to the agenda. Another important moment -- there has also been, in a sense, favoring people who provide life-saving funds based on personal income. We tax them under the proposed 14% law, at 14% rate, and those citizens who provide the means of living with personal work, so above all from the area of agriculture under copyright, based on industrial property rights, at 20%. It is not appropriate to say, conditionally, to the right-wing government to favour the so-called social sector, although you are sick of that word, and that your pre-election promises that small entrepreneurs, the people who make the means of living through personal work, will get a chance from the new government, by new legislation, we see that this is not the case in the bill. Normally, this is what we're going to do in different ways, but the time that comes will be the best judge of both this law and this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3221	Come in, come in - replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3222	Dear gentlemen, the People's Chosen Ones, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. President, and Mr. Ministers, I have come out to tell one truth about the celebration of the day of the Municipality of Gronja Milanovac, or the glory of the Flower, which was Sunday. I was encouraged by Mr Rajko Baralić, the honourable MP and the only SPS MP from Moravik County. But the truth is in the following - The Executive Board of SO Gornji Milanovac for the holiday of SO has taken the decision to assign the Honorary Charter to the Flower, the Embassy of the Kingdom of Norway to Belgrade. As a result, the SPS statement joined by the municipalities' committees of the Yugoslav Left and SRS, in Gornji Milanovac, thanked that they were invited to the celebration but because the plaque was allocated to the Norwegian Embassy did not want to take part in the ceremony. That's why I didn't want to put Mr. Baralic in an awkward situation, to be in a conflict with the SPS decision. Otherwise, I invite him to So Gornja Milanovac, he can come and take an interest in problems in the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3223	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3224	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a set of tax laws ahead of us to adopt these days in order to fill the budget that I am overruling and adopted a few days ago. Today, these days, we are passing laws that will take effect only two months from now, and the MPs in general have...... There are a lot of agenda points that should be considered and introduced into this Parliament. One of these is the situation in southern Serbia, so it would be necessary to enter this parliament to take a stand. Then, there is no point in the agenda where agriculture would be found, then a set, which is a burning problem today, and then a problem of privatisation, which you have announced and promised in seven, 15 or a month, and it has been two months and it will never come to the agenda. The previous Privatisation Act was abolished. And, as one of the problems with the space I come from, which is the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, that is, the problem of Serbs who stayed there to live and work, so I would also suggest that these topics be put into this Parliament's agenda as soon as possible to finally take a position on them. The Republic of Serbia's budget, which has pre-defined the deficit, must be filled, and will be filled with one procedure from consumers and the widest layer of citizens. With this proposal for a law on citizen income, which is so-called "expert government", I guess I finished my Resave school and just prescribed the existing law on the income tax on the citizens, and I wonder why this went like a law when it could only be proposed as an amendment and an addition to a law in which only some figures needed to be changed. It is interesting that even in this law, the Government delivers 15 of its amendments to which it corrects its law. As for amendments to the people's e-mails, which there are also many, only one of the MPs from DOS who have managed to find one category of citizens they have not taxed, and then, normally, they have adopted the law, because this law is simply taxed on everything. Here, let's put it this way - income tax, income tax, income from agriculture and forestry, income from self-employed activity, income from copyright and industrial property rights, income from capital, income from immovable property, capital gains and other income. So it's all covered and everything is subject to taxation. He taxed even the addition to maternity care, then taxed the scholarships of students and students as well as food athletes, which is a lot of it. But this law has left out one question, which is the question of social policy, which is what about our economy, which is in big trouble. The moment this law comes into force in June, we'll have extra labor and a lot of people will be out of a job. Otherwise, the presentation of Minister Djelic had two purposes. One that deceives Serbian citizens that the proposed tax laws will not feel in their pocket, and that even prices have dropped by less than 2.56%, and that only in exceptional cases they have increased by plus 1%. However, you cannot convince any host or housewife who buys the groceries, the daily ones that are necessary for a naked life. Describing the bill, Mr. Minister came up with five points -- the first point of the concept of gross earnings, the second point -- tax insight and contributions through gross earnings, the third point -- tax avoidance thanks to gross incomes, the fourth -- gross wages, and the fifth -- gross personal income. Five points, all the same, gross profit. There's no reason to separate so much. This bill taxes and leads to a 20% income tax on self-employed activities. You say - there will be no consumers, you will tighten the conditions, that no flat-rate income is paid. However, it is important to know that there are such crafts actions to be stimulated, to remain, such as shoelaces, and not to list further, and to be free of taxes, so that citizens can use these services. Then, ask to introduce accounting, or double accounting, which makes it even more difficult for these citizens to live, because now they have to get one computer, to pay one worker, who will pay for this double accounting, which you are ordering by this law, to carry out. Of course, this could be singled out if this income tax were to be reduced and it could be stimulating, that they would be released, but that they had an obligation to prepare for a later period of double accounting management. Finally, this law has a rigorous criminal policy, namely, a criminal policy on the range of 1:100, which has two sides and possible abuses, so it will be punishable from case to case. Someone with a dinar, someone with a hundred dinars, depending on how likable you are. So, there's some kind of glue left behind, and this forced charge is the thing that needs to be avoided. None of those who earn profit and income will avoid it, there is no need to make a forced collection of taxes. Here, what's most important is that what you promised at your pre-election meetings is missing. The people voted for your option because they expected you to be able to bring those six billion, however, there is no such money, and then, because there is no such money, and the state has to live, you are introducing a "liberation on the villa" and thus burdening and jeopardising the lives of these citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3225	There is a word from the People's Messenger Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3226	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with a package of tax policy laws, tried to find a solution to make the tax system more efficient and simple. Through a system of proposed legal solutions, economic policy has been tried to be more efficient by simplifying the system, by expanding the number of taxpayers and increasing the tax base. An increase in the tax base, through something our practice and our truth cannot accept, is not justified, so this is also seen through this legal text of the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens. Taxing something that cannot be taxed, such as food fees for workers, field allowance, such as labourers' regression, such as the use of private cars for official purposes, up to a certain limit, such as advertising and propaganda, to a certain amount, all of this is not reflected in our terms. As an example of this relationship, I can say this -- I'm a worker and I have almost 30 years of employment, 29 years of working in the economy, and all 29 years I've been working in an area that is most endangered by this package of legal solutions. First of all, it's a threat to the area where I've spent my working life, which is water and construction. Water and construction, together with forestry and agriculture, are the basis of our development, and we talked about it when we talked about the budget of the Republic of Serbia, when we tried to tell you MPs of the majority that these branches should have an advantage and advantage in a budget called the agricultural budget. For that reason, I can say with full right that these actions are threatened with multiple aspects -- first of all, by the worker, and then by the employer and the economy. In these areas, over 50% of workers, who feed themselves and their families, workers who have the character of seasonal activity, those actions that can only work in weather conditions when allowed. We can't compare how it's paid and what it's compared to, about working in agriculture, when it's vegetarian season and when it's season of agricultural work, when it has to and can be done from morning till night, when that fee to that worker and that member of his family means a lot, that it's being taxed and that it's being explained that it's by taxing gross profit benefits, because it's going to have more basics on a pension basis, that there's going to be a pension base and that it's going to be a bigger pension. It's "tossing dust into the eyes," it's selling "london fog," or "berlin air," because it's not true and it can never be true. Force large buildings to be built, as we've built here on the premises of our country, objects that are known and famous in infrastructure, that workers who go there, now according to these legal solutions, can't get a field allowance. If someone doesn't know, I'll be able to say through my 29-year experience in this area, that the fee for the field allowance is no salary, it's no profit, it's a fee that the worker has in increased labour and life on the ground, away from the family, from all those influences where he can be. It can be in some other provinces, such as in Alsace or Lorena, but it cannot be in our fertile Serbia, in our Stig, in our Vojvodina, in the Sword, or in some other part of Serbia, where this activity is present and for this number of workers it means a great deal. The fact that someone says it's an incentive to increase the gross mass of workers and that they're going to have higher pensions on that basis, that's why I gave an explanation. In the explanation of the promoters, it is also a disabling, i.e. a reduction in the grey economy, and we have a gray economy on these grounds, in these countries where we are trying to adapt our fiscal system to the market conditions of European countries. I will mention the famous countries known for their grey economy, above all Austria, Germany, France, the Netherlands. What a grey economy in this area -- we see that the grouse of our workers, who go "on bread", go to these countries and work, some work to resolve the issues of their existence, and are not reported to their state institutions. Gro workers go "on black", there they receive a fee determined in shillings, francs, guldens, stamps, but they are not registered, live and work in the field, worse than in the conditions under which our workers work in construction, for example. dams, gas pipelines, or some infrastructure facilities, which are very important to our system. They don't have disability-retirement insurance, they don't have health and social security, they pay off "on the hands". Now, that's a gray economy, and it's not a gray economy and a downsizing that we're going to determine to the worker who got that fee, for what has the increased cost of living and staying on the ground, that we're taxing it now. If someone thinks the employer, or the economic operator, is going to get this, I say boldly and responsibly - they won't. As a businessman working in this area, I think it's a disaster for the overall economy and for the employer. This is a burden and it will be difficult for any businessman to bear this burden, and then, how is it to pass on - by increasing the tax on these receipts, it will certainly be important to affect both the price of the product and the price of the services. Therefore, this is not an excuse, which is the degree of inflation and creation within the tax system, which, compared to the estimated inflation of 30%, is a much bigger problem than it is. Tax, for example. in Articles 18 to 800 dinars of the monthly map and travel expenses of workers who come and go from work - all businesses do not work and do not have all workers in their jobs, where businesses are, most of these people who work in the area travel from work and to work. Eight hundred dinars represent nothing, one map of the other region, so to speak, other categories, monthly amounts to 800 dinars, and that's a road of five to ten kilometers. We're not aware he's picked up car traffic. The collection has already taken place, so 800 dinars a month are enough for 5-10 kilometers. You are not aware that car traffic has already been expensive and public transport by 50% to 60%. What you're proposing should have documentation that's true. In relation to Article 85, the remaining tax rulings were indicated. Among other things, the contract on work is listed, including volunteer work. Volunteer work can't be taxed. What kind of volunteer work is that when a volunteer doesn't receive anything? How can he be taxed? Amendments from the ruling majority have been submitted to that member. Those amendments were adopted. I'd like to hear the minister say whether the amendment foresees volunteer work. I don't understand that volunteer work, which is free, needs to be taxed. The amendments that have been submitted, with reasons for fees on all grounds, should be returned to the proposing, the committees and the Government, to bring this situation into line and adapt this proposal to real conditions and realistic values.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3227	There's a word from MP Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if Mr. Djelic had worked in the Yugoslav and Serbian economies, he would have known that the workers had never seen a warm meal as part of the salary. If one of you says it's different, it means you've never worked in that economy. I'm afraid in this way a good part of the workers will be left without receiving that fee that companies used to pay. Also, limiting the untaxed part of the bus ticket to 800 dinars is not right. I will tell you that between Beocin and Cherevic there are 6 kilometers and that the monthly subscription ticket costs more than 800 dinars. It won't be that all our workers work only on short relations. Some of them work tens of miles from where they live. That's why there's gonna be problems. If we see these few months of work by Parliament and the Government, I think it would be best for the final provisions of all the legal acts that the Government proposes to begin to apply these laws on the day of adoption in the Government, and amendments to its own laws, as the government is practicing, can also be passed through the regulation. Why would she ever deliver to the congregation, when no one's word from the opposition is heard, even when it's legal. What Lale would say, she set you up, you didn't set her up. If this is the way we need to charge the budget for that show that's been going on for the last ten days on Užička and Konvanjanska Street, when the police arrested themselves (I was there for free, unlike you, gentlemen from DOS, who went there for stamps)... (Lowers from the O.R.: Aaaaaaaah-prim. Stenographers) You can beat as much as you want. I don't want to tell you the other one. I don't want to repeat myself, because that's how it is, and you do what you want. That show had a price on it. Since we're talking both gross and net here, and since the government advocates the gross principle, one of you should explain the $50 million in America that you're getting, should say whether it's gross or net. Is this circus play financed from March 30th to March 31st and April 1st from this budget? We Socialists know we lost the election in September and December. We know that no matter what, the judge at that game showed us the red card. It's just that you don't understand two things. One is that someone on the side has invested money to take you to that game and that you only have one player who can score. It's Voja Kostunica. Look at the Sunday's Odjaks, where it said DOS without Kostunica. Look at the score. The score is zero.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3229	Anyone else answer for a word? He has the word MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3230	Mr. President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I think that during the principle debate we have seen absolutely the justification of certain moves in this law, but also the inexcusability of certain procedures at the moment. It is certain that the way to the gross personal incomes... There is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by the minister, right. However, the situation in which the Serbian economy, where only 25% of the economy is working, is a situation where many warm meals, field supplements, expenditures on transporting workers from place of residence to job -- the only expenditure in many situations, because it was also an opportunity for the managers to provide -- such incomes, the situation certainly does not allow for such an account to be introduced in this year and I believe in the following. I therefore appeal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia that this kind of cost, especially warm meals and field supplements, which I am primarily referring to construction, the meditation complex this year, probably not even the next one, is being taken into account in gross personal incomes. What's this about? There's something to be understood. If someone today has 1,500 dinars a warm meal, it was a way to pay any money to the workers, because the economy couldn’t otherwise provide personal income. Tomorrow, when gross personal income and reckoning are introduced, there will be no more 1,500 than 700 dinars, as 800 dinars will go on taxes and contributions. I therefore appeal that, above all, the Government of the Republic of Serbia finds a way to reduce this budget, which we have adopted, a certain rebalance, because it is three and a few times larger than the 2000 budget. I repeat, don't count those 20 billion dinars, which are invested in the reconstruction and reconstruction of the country, into the budget last year, because this year you don't have to do it. Therefore, the budget has been increased more than three times, and salaries in education and health care are not meant to increase so much. Neither education nor health care nor science nor social giving will be damaged if certain budget rebalances are implemented, if the budget is reduced and the inflow adjusted, and thus create conditions for this kind of taxation not to occur.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3231	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) If no one ever answers my word, I conclude a principled search into the Bill on Income Tax. I put the draft law on income tax on citizens in principle. Please state your name. For 128, against 43, there were no abstentions, no vote of 10, a total of 181 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. I am opening a search of the bill in particular. We move on to considering amendments to individual members. National MPs Bozidar Vucurović, Bozidar Vujic, Natasa Jovanovic and Lazar Marjanski submitted the amendment to article 3 in the same text. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3232	In the draft income tax law in Article 3, we asked to delete point 8, which lists the incomes to which citizens should pay the tax. Point 8 says that's the other income. The applicant's explanation did not provide a precise definition of what other revenues were, although by expanding the tax base in the independent activity it partially explained that some of them are entering other revenues. Yesterday we had a chance to see the amendment, which the government accepted, and it concerns some of the production of self-determination. We believe that this can be a kind of manipulation, abuse, and therefore it is necessary to delete this point in this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3233	Any of the amendment applicants come forward for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3234	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am one of the four applicants of the amendments in front of the SRS. What is this amendment about? Transparency, which is a very useful word, starts with the exposé of Chancellor Djindjic, and is even more used and exploited by the presence here and often by this speaker of the present Mula Yusuf Harraklia. That same transparency is seen in my amendment. Transparency is the desire to delete point 8 by amending the proposed Article, which says: the income tax is subject to the following types of income, including other incomes. Otherwise, from Articles 81 to 86, Chapter 8 lists the other revenues. I request an amendment to delete this point for a simple reason because of the possibility of manipulation by the authority responsible to make payment. I'll try to explain it through a few examples from chapter 8, which speaks of other incomes. When it comes to Article 82, it's a lease of movable things and it's said to be a taxpayer, and otherwise it's going to be charged a tax to rent movable things, which it requires and documents. The government seems to be trying through both exposés and public appearances and through these system laws to say that for root economic reform, it is a radical approach to fiscal policy. Also, through all of this, the government must give citizens certain rights, not only to harass them, take four times more than last year, to fill the budget. What will happen to those who trust this government and this government? They don't demand it, they don't document it. So they won't refuse it. Those who do not trust this authority, and God forbid they are as many as possible, will probably demand it as bonds, and will document it, to recognise their costs of depreciation, financing investments and other ongoing maintenance. It's gonna be okay. However, where does manipulation occur, which is why I ask that point 8 be deleted? If the reported income from the lease of mobile items is less than that which could normally be achieved. Obviously, you can see that the organ, which will charge, will begin to deal with psychics, hymnism, and some other things. He will be the one to determine which income could be, and the debtor, who is obliged to report it and document with all those costs he had when he was leased, is not recognised. There's the transparency of this government. Otherwise, three things are listed as other incomes. These are revenues from renting moving things, winning from games of chance and income from the insurance of the person. All other revenues are very vague and are called - other revenues. Here's an example: It's said that the revenues made by a member of a student, Omaldinian or Sudentic cooperative. It is a very common phenomenon both in the West and in our students are doing it, in order to allow themselves better conditions of study or schooling. I hope someone in Paris, when he was a student, did the same thing, because it's a perfectly normal phenomenon in the West. What does a student, who delivers newspapers or milk and uses his bike to do when his tire breaks?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3235	It's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3236	That's really the cost he needs to show. Here's the transparency of this government. It is also said that the determination of income taxpayers and other tax elements is done in accordance with the provisions of Article 82. That's that 82 I was just quoting. There is someone who will determine which could be income and accept what these costs are within the creation of that income, or not. One more thing, there is income that will be realised by collecting forest fruits and medicinal plants and will not be taxed to a height of 1,500 dinars. At these prices, every face that... (President: Please bring the end). .... He who collects to that amount shall not collect any further. It's not what they're going to pay for the obligation and the income tax, it's what they're going to pay for, but everything that's been collected. It's obviously the desire of this government to work badly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3237	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3238	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a smart, serious and thoughtful legislator, when he creates a legal standard, he makes sure that she is clear, accurate and does not allow contradictions in her interpretation in practice. A smart and thoughtful legislator, in an important law such as the Law on Income Tax, would never create a norm containing a provision - other revenues. True, Article 85 speaks out a little more precisely as to what other incomes are, and it is said that they are revenue based on volunteer work. So, ask your neighbor to fix your iron or some other electrical device in the house and you, to buy it, pay him a certain amount of money, and he has to pay the tax, because if he doesn't pay, he's committing a crime. That's the essence of this law. It's volunteer work, voluntary work that nobody forces you to do, but that you're once in a position to do. Then, revenues made by a member of a student, youth or student cooperative. It's taxing. What's not to be taxed, what's not supposed to be taxed at all? These are your bloody diaries coming from the NATO Pact, Soros and similar anti-Serbian branches. Here's one particular example, what's been torn up, what's been cut, the name of the judge who delivered this to me. These are calls to the annual Assembly of the Society of Judges and the Call of the Centre for the Promotion of Legal Studies, for participation in a project financed by Soros. (President: Mr. Seselj, it is completely out of the agenda). Please, this is the Law on Income Taxes (President: But it has nothing to do with that). I'm the kind of income that hasn't been taxed. I'm exporting something that's income, and it's not taxed. Master Leposava Karamarkovic, president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, is the head of the project team, who, in co-operation with the Open Society Fund, established the Institute and runs a specific project aimed at enabling our judiciary to be independent. Independent from the Serb people, from the Serbian state, but to be firmly tied to the NATO Pact and the Soros Fund. I know it's the ideology of the entire DOS. Don't be surprised I'm saying that. I know, but I want every other citizen to know. This isn't meant for anywhere in the Taxation Act. Anything that Leposava Karamarkovic, president of the Supreme Court, as an open traitor to the Serb people and foreign mercenaries, gets on the basis of this work, as head of the Soros Foundation Project Team, will remain untaxed. I know how much this bothers you, but you will have the opportunity to hear a lot more of this and similar evidence of the true nature of the Dossian government and the fact that you are the mercenaries of the NATO Pact.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3239	The word is Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3240	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we come from the fact that we came here because the citizens chose us, I think that despite the divisions of power and opposition, we can agree at least that each of us wants to work in the interest of those citizens who chose him. On this side, I do not dispute any representative of the opposition and the sincere intention to help those who chose him and to help those who may not have voted for him, but he does not want to agree to such a kind of rematchism that would lead a policy contrary to their interests. We can agree that many things in our society were wrong, that the problems that rock us also affected some external factors, and those internal ones. That's what the opposition itself, through the numerous appearances of its MPs, has openly confessed here. So we need a change. When we agree on the fact that we need a change, we come to a conflict that, among other things, demonstrated by my predecessor, tending and maliciously interpreting the bill that lies before you. In fact, Article 85 very clearly and specifically defines the obligations of those persons to whom donation and sponsorship applies, which are required to pay the tax on their own under the existing law, i.e. the law that MPs hope to adopt. So, it's a notorious lie, not to use a more difficult word, which is completely in the spirit of the character of politics that my predecessor leads with his MP group. All they've said in the last two days is one complete nonsense and untrueness. Do not deny them the right to stand up for change, and we are definitely diverged at that starting point that means that before we step into change, we can clear up with all the problems that, inevitably, led to this need for change. In that clarification, we face facts that speak significantly differently about those critics of today's government, from the performances that they had behind this speaker. So, there's a reference to fear for the workers. In Serbia, everyone who has worked has been left out of work, so those people who are formally in labor cannot live on their salary, and we all agree on that. The mention of warm meals, regressions, and travel orders is cheap demagogy, because it is impossible to live on. When you take justice into your mouth, tell me where that justice was when you spread out in your apartments while our country's territory was narrowing down? When you take into your mouth agriculture, say how much you advocated agriculture, how many agricultural machines did you buy, and how many official vehicles did you buy in your mandates? When speaking and caring for students, (President: Time) how many of these students have you helped by driving them to prison or beyond the borders of this country? When you finally define the future of DOS, you have to respect the fact that we certainly don't share the intentions that are yours and that we will be very determined, despite all those differences that are natural, we end the work we've been chosen for. So the state objectives it insists on are: preserving Serbia, preserving a common state with Montenegro, transforming our society and determining responsibility for anyone who humiliated this society, as well as any citizen of this society.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3241	There's no replica on the replica. I warned him for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3242	He had no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3243	He was entitled to a replica, because the slanders were sent to the entire parliamentary group. He was warned after three minutes, because he answered the line. Mr Jovanovic has the right to report again as president of the parliamentary group on the amendments. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3244	Mr. President, you had to warn Cedomir Jovanovic not to tell lies from this pay phone. It is a lie that the Serbian government bought a car by foreign production, while we were in the government. If she really bought it, let's say the name of the man who signed it...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3245	Mr. Seselj, you're re-entering the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3246	... He's supposed to go to jail.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3247	Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3248	You're warning me, and you know it's a lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3249	Please stop misappropriating the Rules of Procedure and use it for replication. I beg you, there are plenty of opportunities both for replicas and for the presentation of attitudes and please let us take care of it. There's always enough space, there's no need to abuse anything. Here you go. This is an announcement as president of the parliamentary group on amendments, what is the dispute?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3250	I came forward because the DOS parliamentary group was injured, and some of them about justice and how much of the truth is adhered to, or from the pursuit of lies, is judged by the citizens. Please deny - the official report of the Republika Srpska Autoservice for 2000, which, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, asks 190.000 DM of the Republic of Serbia's budget for repairing official vehicles, "audi A6", "audi A6", "audi A6", "audi A6" and two private vehicles, jeep and Volvo, and to deny this official report that speaks of the purchase of a vehicle in the term of the Republic government, where the party of Mr. Seselja has participated the purchase of a vehicle - "audi A3", "audi A6", "fiat uno", "fiat marea", "fiat chain",...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3251	Please stick to the agenda, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3252	"Hjundai", "hyundai", "hyundai", "audi A6", "audi A6" -- shopping in 2000. Your forgetfulness is your characteristic. Anything that is a bad incentive of your authority is not what you're willing to agree to, even through memory. I repeat, that you are not obliged to remember, that will be remembered by those who determine the justification for spending of people's money - 56 special accounts were in the budget, which you signed, and here you have criticised us for several specific accounts, which are logical, since they are designed to cover those needs that cannot be defined through the budget. So there is a budget inspection and it will determine the responsibility of anyone who spent people's money, as in the case of some ministries, against which criminal charges have already been filed, and you deny this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3253	What Cedomir Jovanovic was talking about is the best testimony to what lies dosage policy is based on. What's false about this? First, this is the alleged report on the dealings. All these auditions were found in the Serbian government, if one was won, received from Customs, free of charge and none was bought. Laugh for free. Next, while I was Deputy Prime Minister, I was driving with the government's audition, and after the SRS got owned by the jeep, I was driving officially as vice president of the government by that jeep. I've returned the audio to the government. The government had a shortage of cars, so Deputy Prime Minister Dragan Todorovic had to drive for months with his private "trabant" on a mockery of many ministers, that's true and they can confirm it because we didn't want to buy a new vehicle. You're all lying. The fact that the vehicles were broken down, they were broken because they were old, or they were harassed. You can only attack us because of mileage, all mileage is made in the performance of official political affairs. None of them are for private purposes. It's about your lies. I have here a report from your judge society, signed by Zoran Ivosevic, when you call on judges at the Assembly, that all expenses, hotel accommodations, transportation and everything else will be paid. Where'd you get that money? The revenues of this society are judges and for the Leposava Karamarkovic project, from the NATO Pact and the SOROŠ Foundation, from the biggest enemies, the traitors of the Serb people, all those who receive. Laugh. It's funny to you that you're traitors. All those who receive money from Serb enemies are traitors of the Serb people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3254	If no one ever answers for a word again, go ahead. Mr. Vučurović, as a promoter. If there's been a lot of fun, let's listen to Mr. MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3255	Honorably, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't see at all why such a debate and so much bile over one amendment, you want to calm the AFZ a little bit, about one amendment, which just wants to define what the tax is to be paid for. Other revenues are like a category, something that can be interpreted one way or another. And the taxpayer on that basis, the same can be determined in one way or another. In an explanation for not accepting this amendment, the government says that income tax should be subject to all types of income from natural persons. It's okay. No one is against subjecting all types of income, but it is against not knowing what kind of income they are. We were just asking to define, to have the government come out with the amendment after all and say, the rest of the incomes are you, you and you. There's nothing controversial about it. The other thing, Mr. Jovanovic said that we used to go out here and say things, that we were telling lies. If we have told lies, Mr Jovanovic, how did the government and committees accept over 50 amendments submitted and baptized as their amendment? I really don't get it. I don't know. There's one more thing I don't get. I know someone else was buying cars, but it seems to me that your party's boss is driving to Milosevic's audition and you're driving in Markov.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3256	If no one ever answers for a word again, I'll put this amendment to the vote. In favour of vote 45, against 106, a abstentioned one, did not vote 42, and a total of 194 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 7th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3257	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope you have received a material called - a contribution with a letter from the Government of the Republic of Serbia in which it is explained... Please account for this time. [[elevator, the president bell rings a warning of order]] I have submitted an amendment to which I have proposed that Article 7 point 1 in a provision that defines the resident of the Republic and which says that the resident of the Republic is exercising its business and life interests, that the interests of life are deleted, because the life interest is a personal and not a legal category, and cannot be determined by law. The government has rejected this amendment, and listen to what explanation, listen to the ministers you reject this amendment with -- it is rejected because the life interest of the law is not defined because it is a personal category. Well, that's what I said. I didn't say anything else. I asked him to delete himself for it, and you say he can't be erased because it doesn't matter. Police cannot be formed now to determine the life interests of Serbian citizens and to charge taxes. What do you think -- how much tax I would have to pay when we've created our own life's interest, to get this incompetent government off the back of the Serb people?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3258	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. 56, against 113, abstained one, did not vote 24, a total of 194 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 9 of the 1st Amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3259	I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 and asked that at point 9, the amount of 20,000 dinars be changed by 50,000 dinars. It's that help that's given to the family of the deceased worker. In point 12, the amount of 1,500 dinars of tax-free scholarships should be changed by up to 3,000 dinars and at point 13, the amount of 1,500 dinars for food athletes would be changed by 6,000 dinars. The government and the Finance Committee have rejected these amendments, but here's how. That's what the government accepts and then submits as its amendment. In point 12. The government says -- the amount of 1,500 dinars is changing by 3,000 dinars, and that's what I suggested. I suggested that it be changed by 3,000 dinars, and you reject it and now you place it as your amendment. The government is obstructing this assembly of ladies and gentlemen, Government on its legal proposals to over 100 amendments. That's more than the MP groups have given here. It is clear that as long as you are in power, citizens of Serbia cannot live decently, but at least let us bury them properly. For 20,000 dinars, Serbian citizens cannot be buried. This amendment, which the government has placed as its own and where is an untaxable part of the scholarship and the 3,000 dinar loan, will likely go from the part that received the incompetent minister of education to the personal handling for the reform of the school system of 50 million dinars without the government coming out with this amendment a large number of students and students would have lost their scholarship. Because only people of goodwill today are scholarshipd by successful and intelligent young people. If you tax them too, then you successful young people won't get that money either. You have abolished the Ministry of Youth and Sports and therefore also funds for amateur and top-notch sports. There are some police officers here who don't understand something. If they don't understand, let them come out for a pay phone and let them say it. Amateur and top-notch sports are funded by people who love sports and want to separate our children from the street. You're also taxing what people want out of their incomes. These people will no longer be normal, financing athletes. That's why I told you -- it's nothing embarrassing for the government to admit that it was wrong and say the amendment of the MP Bozidar Vukurovic, not -- is rejected, and the government gives the same in the same text. That's funny.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3260	He has the word Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3261	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this is the first time that the government has proposed the release and removal of taxes from food for amateur athletes. The government in which you radicals had your own ministers taxed 20% of the savings for amateur athletes. As for the analogue amendments that you have proposed, you have proposed them with a delay, given that the Government has proposed these amendments before you, and you are not participating in the work of the Assembly committees, so you are unable to make the right contribution here in the O.R. So when you return to congregation work, you will be properly informed. Until then, since you ignore congregation working bodies, you will use a pay phone to misinformation the public. You handed over the amendments after the government, and you're representatives of the former government, which with 20% was taxed on food for amateur athletes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3262	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3263	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, from what Cedomir Jovanovic said earlier, show not only his spiritual set but the entire DOS policy. Cedomir Jovanovic is in continuity telling the truth, and even that we left the committees. How can we leave something we've never been to? Well, that's the way it is. That's the way it is with these inventions. They can't say the name of the man who bought the car for the government. He's supposed to go to jail. Name it. Or a few names. Whoever bought the new side of the vehicle should go to jail because the government has passed the regulation not only her, but that no state body, no public enterprise, no local self-government body, must buy new cars from foreign production. Secondly, we didn't join the committees, because that was your will. You're the congregation majority, the two-thirds majority, you didn't want a principle agreement, you wanted a committee to be established by committee, so you'd set up a structure, past some principled agreement, which is why we didn't want to take part in this business with you. You could have scared some of us, if they were involved, you couldn't have us. Furthermore, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic should know the bar that is today's date, if he can't tell the difference between the dates of submission of our amendments and the dates by which the government has adopted its alleged amendments. And in the end, you're running one extremely reckless tax policy here, which is evident from this member and refusing amendments to this member of the law on total income. Here are very restrictive exemptions from the income tax of citizens, and last night the finance minister explained to us - if there is no tax on a warm meal and regression, there will be nothing to receive pensions from. Your entire pension fund has fallen to taxes on hot meals and regresses. That's what the minister said twice last night. Yeah, that's what he said. He warns that those who are now receiving a warm meal, if they are not taxed, that they will not have a pension tomorrow. So if that's what you think you're pacifying your pensions to the citizens, it's hard for the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3264	Mr. Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3265	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, because of the spiritual assembly, I said that you did not participate in the work of congregation working bodies, not that you abandoned them. The MPs are witnesses of our efforts to ensure that all opposition parties have an adequate percentage presence in parliament space and in congregation working bodies. As for your forgetfulness, or ignorance, the post of Deputy Prime Minister, in charge of finance, is very responsible, and unless you know that the government, whose vice president you were, bought 26 official auditions, then ignorance implies a certain degree of responsibility. And don't force us into this kind of business, just don't judge people here, it's about laws and situations where you're constantly untrue, forcing us to put them back in your face. So, sir, you bought an audition and your party was driving that audition. (Employer Seselj asks for a word, according to the Rules of Procedure)
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3266	Do you promise as a Serbian radical that you will speak in your own rules of procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3267	Mr. President, you've allowed Cedomir Jovanovic to tell the lie again that 26 auditions were bought, that's a lie, and he won't give the names of the people who signed that buy. I was Deputy Prime Minister, I have no idea, I didn't sign. But let's see who signed it, get him to go to jail. I'm about to have whoever bought 26 auditions go to jail, and I'm going with him, because I didn't know he bought 26 auditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3268	I didn't expect you, Mr. Seselj, to lie to me as a Serbian radical. Please stop this. Really, let's stop this kind of debate. Please, there is a right to replica and what is done now is not in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, neither by Seselj nor by Mr. Minister, but what are we to do here, gentlemen dear. Why don't you go outside and discuss it, please? Shall we get back to work? If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 118, there were no abstentions, no vote of 27, a total of 196 MPs were present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3269	Says Mr. Ceda Jovanovic that we, the Serbian radicals, are here, in the previous days speaking nonsense. Mr. Chad should, as head of the parliamentary group, be here to act as head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3270	Please don't open the circle of controversy again about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3271	He shouldn't act like he's at a rally. In article 9, the Proposer defined what was all freed from paying taxes on citizens' incomes. Among other things, in point 12 of the said article, it is said that taxes are not paid on scholarships and loans from students and students, up to 1,500 dinars a month. Meanwhile, the government, we have now heard, intervened with the amendment and raised that amount to 3,000 dinars. With my amendment, I propose that it be at least to the level of the average salary at the level of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, I am getting closer to the proposal not to impose any restrictions on the non-taxable part of scholarships and loans of students and students. The tax collected on students and students will certainly not fill the Republic of Serbia's budget, but it is quite certain that it will destimulate the economy to train personnel. There are a lot of examples, you all know that many companies are training their employees' children, for example. If a worker gets hurt, dies, etc., then the firm decides to educate those children, etc. Introducing a tax on something like this is at least immoral, gentlemen. The state administration, which destimulates the schooling of its youth, is, therefore, immoral, analytical and incompetent. Point 13 of this article suggests that food for amateur athletes is taxed if they cross 1,500 dinars per month. And that's where the government, as we heard it, intervened with its amendment and increased that amount to 3,000 dinars, 100 whole marks. With my amendment, I suggested that this non-taxable part be at the level of the average salary at the level of the Republic, or better yet, not to impose any restrictions on the level of food given to amateur athletes. The government's concern for amateur sports is obvious - the sports ministry was first abolished, and now introduces food tax to amateur athletes. According to Mr Ceda Jovanovic, it was also in a solution to the previous Law on Income Tax. Well, here's the DOS gentlemen's excellent chance of making it right. Let's lift the caps for scholarships to students and students, lift the restrictions for food athletes to amateurs. Extraordinary, those categories of citizens will remember that and they will know that they appreciate it. I wonder who's in the interest of completely choking the amateur sport in this country. Who's in the interest of our youth not being involved in sports? One government that is considering the future of this country, one patriotic government, is certainly not in the interest. Is this government -- as far as I can tell, even today in exile -- that's how it is? In the end, there is one very interesting observation. The government has given over 100 amendments to its own draft laws, on its own draft laws, which we adopt at this session of the Assembly. Over 100 amendments! Two conclusions can be drawn from that fact. First, this government finally began to accept amendments to its laws by Serbian Radical Party MPs, which is commendable, because it is never too late to learn someone's mind. So either that, or this government is unable to come up with bill proposals and under pressure from the public and opposition to change its own proposals radically. With 100 amendments, she has changed six laws to be passed at this session. What do we need a government like that for?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3272	Anyone else answer for a word about this amendment? (Niko) I am putting the amendments of MP Miroljub Veljkovic to vote. Please vote. For 57 MPs, against 110, there were no abstentions, no vote of 20, a total of 187 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Jankovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Milan Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3273	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on taxation of citizens' incomes on Article 9. I suggested adding point 19 to Article 9 which reads: "A fee for working in humanitarian organisations". By exempting the benefits of working in humanitarian organisations, we would allow people who work volunteerically in humanitarian organisations, and since there are a large number of refugees from the former Yugoslavia's area, to receive such compensation, they make part of the income that allows them to support their families.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3274	Thank you. Anyone else answer for a word? I am putting Milan Jankovic's amendment to article 9. I ask the MPs to vote. For 57, against 105, with three abstentions, they did not vote 24, a total of 189 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Djura Lazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Djura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3275	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished members of the Government, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to Article 9 or to the part exempt in the part of the income tax. I propose, by amendment, that new points 19 and 20 be added in Article 9 beyond point 18. Point 19. - "Regress for an annual vacation from the amount found to be the lowest general collective contract for the whole year." Point 20. "A month's wage for food during work to the lowest amount established by the general collective contract." These two fees have not yet had the character of profit, but have represented income, in fact, an extra for the costs the worker has in the course of work, for part of the funds he spent, or used for family vacations. By taxing these two fees, we will come into a situation that the level of gross labour obligations will increase significantly. I don't see any reason why the tax exemption of these two excruciates would cause so much trouble. I was even amazed by the finance minister's claim that, referring to a warm meal and a regress for an annual vacation, as well as costs for a field supplement, it potentiates as a time bomb in Serbia. We know how difficult our business has been in the past years because of the blockade from the international community and how significant was the warm meal and field supplement, as well as the regress for the vacation of our workers, employees in general, who lived and worked under these difficult conditions. Tax revenue from these items will not mean much to the budget, but it will mean a lot to the collectives and workers who receive this compensation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3276	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3277	I have one concrete solution that the finance minister might accept. Since he is not here, I hope that his deputy Dejan Popovic will listen carefully and will pass it on to him, so that the government can come out with a new amendment, so that the basic problem can be resolved, that the warm meal and regression remain untaxed and that we can find an additional source of income to fill the budget. That could go directly to the pension fund. There are many people, mostly from the Democratic Party, who have simply robbed Serbia of millions of amounts over the past few years, so it would be good not to arrest them, not to tear down their facilities, as they have destroyed the poor from time to time, and in some places, to intimidate others and recitalise them, but simply to charge them large taxes and large taxes, as for Ljubomir Angelkovic's palace, the vice president of the Democratic Party, against whom also famous painter Dragan Malesevic Tapi also filed a criminal report against Ljuba Angelkovic and his wife for a palace of 5,300 square metres. . .
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3278	Please stick to the agenda theme. You have submitted for an amendment to Article 9.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3279	Be kind, be patient and endure what hurts you the most. Hold on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3280	Write a letter to the Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3281	I am speaking to the Deputy Minister to redecorate this provision of the law, this member of the law, so that those who have received a warm meal and a regress for their vacation will not be damaged. He won't receive it now that the tax is prescribed. Whoever gave it to them so far won't be able to give any more because of the tax or not in that amount. Maybe he'll cut them in half or cut them in size. And here it could be about this palace, where for two and a half million marks, Ljuba Angelkovic and his wife Ljiljana, who is the head of So Chukarica and prevented the municipal inspection from raising this palace. Since the palace has been raised, it is nice to charge them an adequate amount and an additional penalty for numerous violations of the law, not only to Ljuba Angelkovic, but also to many others similar, and not to rob the poor of the regress for an annual holiday and a warm meal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3282	He has the floor of MP Branislav Ivkovic as head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3283	Ladies and gentlemen, by considering the Transport Tax Act, we MPs and former members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia have reached an agreement that is only in the interest of citizens. In fact, we agreed that municipal contributions are not accounted for until 31.12.2000. Maybe one such arrangement could be in this situation. I'd like to ask Ambassador Seselj to allow me to speak. (Cheese: attack a little DOS, you're scared of arrests). Mr. Seselj, I'm trying to speak civil, civilised. Thus, this submitted amendment indicated that gross personal income was not established on that amount of warm meal, which is reached in the agreement between the union and the company, nor on other charges such as field allowances, regresses and means of transport. We propose this amendment not to account for the agreement reached between trade unions and employers, or to find the possibility, as already proposed by the predecessors for this speaker, to find a similar solution by the end of the session, which was in the case of the calculation of the municipal contribution, because we agreed together not to charge a special tax by 31.12, which would increase the cost of municipal funds by 20%. In this regard, I urge you MPs to accept this amendment or that the Government of the Republic of Serbia set a deadline, respecting the amendment, for example by 31.12. not to charge any taxes and contributions. I don't think I need to explain to you the fact that companies have to invest in extended reproduction, in the process of work, in order to start working and getting on their feet. It's not our goal to sell out the wake-up companies because they don't produce. We have information that only 25% of the economy is working. That 25% of the economy can't support a 75% non-functioning economy. Therefore, we cannot further count on a contribution to something, where we know in advance that we cannot gain these fortitudes [[Ambassador Seselj requests replica]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3284	Mr. President, it would be good for you to stay out of sight longer because your vice president, who is replacing you, seems to be hearing nothing here. Mr. Branislav Ivkovic, instead of being scared and acting so condescendingly towards DOS, as soon as you prepare for arrest, he goes straight into the mouse hole. That's almost every one of them. Wait a minute. If there's anything you're guilty of, answer for it, don't bend your spine in advance. Mr. Ivkovic has a lot of interesting things here, and here I have a report from Michael Curtis's hearing. I hope Batic is not the only one who has influence in our judiciary, but he has us who are outside institutionally influential. Last week, Mihalj Kertes submitted documents to the investigating judge, which directly compromises former US administration official Richard Holbrooke and then Secretary of State Madlen Olbright. In the presence of defenders and prosecutors, Kertes provided material evidence of the transfer of large sums of money from customs to Richard Holbrooke's private account abroad, as well as the bill of purchase of an expensive gold necklace, which was donated to Albright. Gentlemen, you've forced the fox, now you've driven the wolf away. This trial, which you so recklessly entered, will first expose your foreign bosses, who were so bribery, so Holbrooke repeatedly delayed the bombing because he was getting the money. Last time we saw the strippers, they gave a lot more money. And that game of blackmail and bribery, the bribery contest lasted for 10 years. Now, first, your American bosses will be baffled, and then it looks like you're coming in line. [[Ambassador Ivkovic requests replica]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3285	There's no replica on the replica. This was a replica of your speech. You spoke as president of the parliamentary group, and Mr. Seselj replicated. There's no replica on the replica. And that's how we ended this circle.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3286	I've never been on this agenda before.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3287	He can't do it by amendment, just once.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3288	I did answer by amendment, and I'm not on the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3289	If no one ever answers for a word again, I'll put the amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. For 58, against 103 abstentions, there was no vote of 31, a total of 192 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Ivkovic has a duck, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3290	Mr. Chairman, you violated the Rules of Procedure in 96 and gave the word to Mr. Vojislav Seselj. I didn't mention him at all in any context, except I did your job and asked him to let me speak. Because while I was talking about this pay phone, he was in communication with certain MPs from DOS all the time. So he had no need to replicate at all, because he wasn't mentioned in any kind of speech, except he was asked to silence and I could speak. But since I'm already here, I want to say that I've been in the SPS since 1990 and I've stayed with the president of that party until today. As for the accusations, which talk about fear, I think that any MP and citizen of Serbia watching this transmission can see a difference in the level of individual MPs. Everyone has the right to step forward in this congregation in their own way. By the time we've touched our fears and judgments, it's normal for a man to expect criminal charges, when he's doing his job agilely and honestly in his own party. Only to add that I expect those who have filed will extend against me a criminal report, which as Minister of Science and Technology of the Republic of Serbia financed the project "Individual and collective identity in post-Communism" and thus financed by Zoran Djindjic, Dragoljub Micunovic, Vojislav Kostunica and Vesna Pesic. There's a move forward, so I expect the charges to be extended.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3291	Article 9th point of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does Mr. Mircic want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3292	The purpose of this amendment was to increase the amount of scholarship for students, or help students, and later some colleagues added to athletes. The government has installed in its proposal for an amendment proposed by Serbian radicals, and now there is a controversy whether the government has installed that day sooner or later, it is important that one progress has been made in the work of this government. In fact, progress is expected in this area where the government thus shows that and how it improvises things. When you listen to the finance minister explain, and yet as a goal in tax policy sets out synthetic taxes or cellular methods, then you get the impression that it's to perfection. However, acceptance of this amendment, where an increase of 100% is made, says improvisation is at stake. You know, if the government makes one proposal, which is part of the income tax policy, then it has to defend those attitudes firmly, no matter what. It can't be used in demagogy. This is pure demagogy. It's about students and athletes, and then the government counts on that demagogy to increase 100%, which is in some real value 100 marks per month, which are untaxed. By 100 marks, as you start with the price hike, there won't be enough students for breakfast either. But it's still a kind of demagogy that keeps government going. The second part of this amendment is to add a part of the text, after a sentence -- for social and humanitarian assistance, to the finance and economy minister, to be added -- with the agreement of the resolution ministry. The government has not accepted this amendment. You have an explanation. Some people have read it, you don't read it for you from DOS, you don't read it anyway. Batic is waiting for the 25th point. You're under the 25th point. Since when are we on "you"? ). Mr. Batic, while you were a zealous copyist of our speeches, we used to be good. What's the point? He says -- the finance minister prescribes rules for profit on organised social and humanitarian aid. Here's your best example. I'm always with you with examples, so you'll understand better, you'll understand faster. It's no wonder you don't admit it. It's your right. Last year and this year, he was imported under humanitarian aid. On that basis, you are exempt from customs payments, you are exempt from many duties that you would have to pay on regular imports. What was local self-government doing under DOS control? This mammut who serves for heating, she charged through the payment of heating from the citizens. They won, they didn't pay taxes, they didn't pay taxes, they didn't pay taxes again. Leave those stories to keep the schools warm. That's what you're telling someone else. You didn't just heat schools. There was even malfeasance, so you abused it, sold it privately. You know it well among yourselves, and one day it will come out. Don't tell anyone what you do at the local level. Everybody knows that. There is no place where there has been no malfeasance, starting with hiding the data of how many mules have arrived in that municipality, and to those data that are very important to the citizens, where and to whom it has been allocated. There's a series of examples, Mr. Kesaic, not just Sombor, but every place. Then you whine and cry that the international community hasn't helped you enough. Basically, it has nothing to do with help. (President: Time) It has to do with some personal interests, personal gain. Therefore, the resolution ministry must give consent. Whether it's the Ministry of Health, whether it's the Ministry of Energy or Trade, you're skillful enough to steal. That's why it takes as much security as it does.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3293	Anybody else answer for a word? (No one) I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 54, against 112, there were no abstentions, no 24 votes, a total of 190 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 9th point of the 9th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does MP Vujic want a word? (WHISPERING)
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3294	I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 at points 9, 12 and 13. I'll explain the complete amendment. Anyway, this government has to fall. It must fall for one simple reason that every legal project that we are given before it enters the general procedure, they repair it themselves. We have witnessed this since the extraordinary session, under various pressures from the public, whether from unions, media, or from some third parties, they have always given two or three amendments to the two or three members. So now and on this bill, and on the next seven that we will discuss together. All 100 amendments. If nothing else, it is good that the government has publicly admitted that it is trying to upgrade its previous proposals, and that it is innovating and improving them. One of these innovations and improvements is, as Mr. Vučurevic said, that they accepted his amendment on scholarships and loans, and I must say that this amendment was accepted here later on, as I suggested, by the government's later proposal, as well as by my own proposal, Mr. Vukurevic. All right, what's done is done. The essence of this amendment to Article 9 of this proposal of the law, in point 9, is that it is necessary and necessary, given the situation in society, given the social picture of the situation in this society, that no income tax is paid on the following grounds: In point 9, says - aid in the event of the death of an employee, a member of his family or a retired worker, and in the amount of 20,000 dinars. Since you've foreseen certain inflationary movements with the budget, and only the intervention of the quadruple budget, in fact, the budget in relation to last year, speaks enough of what that amount of 20,000 dinars means. If only for a little Bona Fides principle, which was supposed to be used by the resolute minister, by the way, Mula Jusuf-harrakli, that amount of 20,000 dinars could have increased. As for scholarships and student loans, the government has increased, not as much as I suggested with the amendment, but the fact that it has increased. The increase means recognition of the government, that the image in society is such that the situation in the economy and the social picture of the general state of society is such that it should be increased. And this third one, which is a food-food fee, which is paid to amateurs by amateur sports clubs, according to the law governing sport, at a monthly rate of up to 1,500 dinars. I proposed an amendment to make it 3,000 dinars. The government didn't accept my amendment, she gave hers, and she said she suggested 3,000. That is the essence of this amendment. To finish, as I have begun, this government must fall.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3295	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? (No). I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 106, there were no abstentions, no 26 votes, a total of 188 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th point of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Stevo Dragisic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does Mr Dragisic want a word? He's not here. Does anyone else want a word? (No). I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 47, against 111 abstentions, there were no, no 33 votes, a total of 191 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 9th point 12. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does Mr. Cvetanovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3296	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I belong to an SRS parliamentary group. I purposely point out that because the papers tend to write and when they quote my words as a payphone, they write the SPS below. Just because you're laughing, I'll comment on some of your stuff. First of all, as an excellent student and as a solid student with an average of 8.93, I was never a member of the Union of Communists or anyone in my family. When many of your current authorities were communists and moved between 50 and 500 meters away from the church, my family Cvetanovic from Jablani County was the largest donor in 1989 in the construction of the Holy Sava Temple. About 20,000 DM was given to build that temple. Even then, we knew which side we were on. You may still laugh, but you must know...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3297	Mr. Cvetanović, this isn't your election campaign. Please move to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3298	Mr. President, I always stick to the agenda, but in the context of the lies that are being told about me here, and in that context, I'm going to have to explain some things. Given that I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 of point 12, I will again point out that your representatives, especially Mr Ceda Jovanovic, are constantly unargumented to tell lies. I have already shown behind this speaker once, proved that he is telling the truth, now once again the Serbian radicals have filed a time-consuming number of amendments. On Article 9, point 12, for scholarships and loans from students and students to increase the monthly amount and to release taxes, among other things, I have submitted an amendment. I filed the amendment on 5.04.2001, at 15.00 hours. Here you can see when the amendment is filed. And the Serbian government, although Mr Ceda Jovanovic said it had been submitted before the amendment, before Serbian radicals said, it is clear here that it was at 20.10 p.m. on 6.04.2001. So, Chad, as usual, is always lying and constantly proving himself. This is the second time I've proved my argument that he's lying, and I hope I don't have to do it for the third time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3299	Replica, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3300	Mr Cvetanovic, it was an amendment mentioned by Mr Vucurovic, not the amendment you spoke of. But as far as the amendments are concerned, don't let me keep a record here now, the amendment I was talking about was handed over on April 5th, here at the Assembly Office, and before that was adopted at the government's session. The essence of my remark is on the account of your unrepentant, open invitation sent to you on the first day of this assembly call, to participate in the work of the congregation’s working bodies. Since you are not participating, there is a problem, but I agree that each of us is working in the interests of the citizens and all of your amendments, which are in the spirit of the amendments proposed by the Government, are welcomed and no one disputes the good intentions of that. I don't think citizens will benefit from whether you handed over an hour before the government or an hour after the government, but from the substance of the amendment, and the amendment I was talking about, was submitted 24 hours before the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs. Not an amendment to Article 9, paragraph 12, which you spoke of earlier, but an amendment to Mr. Vukurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3301	If you're looking for a replica, the name is mentioned, but it wasn't about you, nothing wrong, it's just mentioned that it refers to your amendment. (Božidar Vucurovic, from the scene: just to say two seconds). (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: there was no more corrupt president). Why don't you whisper to him one more time? What's he got to say? Don't, if he doesn't know why he's answering, don't tell him. Don't let us go to replication... Do you want to go through the Rules of Procedure? I'm not giving you the right to a replica. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: he mentioned him. It is, and according to the Rules of Procedure, I estimate whether it is misread. Only according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Read the article in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3302	Mr. President, you've injured Article 86. The Rules of Procedure, in which it is said, that if an apostle in the course of his exposure and so on, and you will read, you have not given me the right to reply. Mr. Ceda Jovanovic did not replicate...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3303	I'm asking you to decide that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3304	Ceda Jovanovic did not replicate to me, but to Goran Cvetanovic and in this context, he mentioned me. It means it's not a replica to me, it's to this exhibit that I've had.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3305	We'll decide that. Article 86? In Article 86... So you said, he doesn't even refer to... What, 96? He says this: "If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insulting to the MP of the other assembly." So, it is said -- insultingly speaking about a MP from another parliamentary group, and further "citeing his name and last name or function". I think that's quite clear. Since you're just mentioned, but no offense and no conversation or mentioning your words... (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: I answer for word). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3306	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think there's any need to convince anyone that Serbian radicals in this National Assembly are preparing themselves for all assembly sessions. We're combing through all the legal projects that the majority of the congregation is suffering, and we're looking for weak spots. Our mission is the only one here to look for your weak spots and criticize you. You don't like that criticism. It is in the interest of the people that we are criticizing you as hard as possible. Of course, with this criticism, we are proposing better solutions, and you are avoiding accepting our amendments, and where solutions are acceptable and in your opinion, then you are looking for a variant, as the Government adopted the amendment on its project. If the government had been so smart and thoughtful, it would not have submitted amendments to its laws, and when we were once in the Serbian government, it was a terrible rarity for the government to make amendments to its law. If the government knows what it is dealing with the National Assembly, it would be an extreme exception to adopt it itself and bring amendments to its legal projects. So she's never done it right before. You are now ahead of us, telling the government that the amendment has been accepted, and no amendment of the opposition has been accepted. The word here was Mr Jovanovic's 50 amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, and now you are asking in lack of argument why we do not come to the assembly committees. We wanted to make a proportionate and principled agreement. There were two attempts, we failed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3307	Mr. Seselj, we're talking about Article 9th point 12.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3308	That's what this is about, Mr. President. The direct question is, what we're not doing on committees and on these and other amendments, and now we're afraid anywhere with you to show up except where the direct cameras are turned on, because when we saw these, with socks on our heads, we think -- these are the ones who are willing to break into the assembly board's session. We're the amendment, the ones with the socks, with the automatic rifles. That's your argument. You see one more thing, why did you bring down the legal order? And you're surprised we won't cooperate with you on any matter. Here's another piece of evidence...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3309	Mr. Seselj, I remind you twice to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3310	.... My lawyer was fined with 300 dinars because he complained about the first municipal court's solution and referred to the appeal in a negative context as the judge's president, Vojko Simic. It has never happened so far in a secondary procedure to make a solution that, as president of the court, Vojkan Simic puts himself in charge of the council to judge, to refuse where he was potential, and to punish a lawyer with 300 dinars. Well, we can't work with you...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3311	Mr. Seselj, I take your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3312	..... No boards, no nowhere. Because you're destroying the legal order. You Serbians rule with a cannon in your hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3313	The word has Mr. Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3314	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, just because it's never happened before doesn't mean it's the way it's supposed to be in the future. As far as DOS is concerned, we guarantee you that it's been forever before the judge that you could go with the banana crust in your hand. You'll be responsible for the breach of the courts. The courts are undeniable and do not seek understanding of such a procedure under the Rules of Procedure of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia. So, Mr. Seselj, the rules apply to you as well as to all other citizens of this society. When you go to court you must go with respect, because neither Slobodan Milosevic nor Mirjana Markovic nor the unscrupulous authority whose authority you were a very important factor anymore, and the times when you were able to use the crust of bananas and TV cameras to go to the courts are forever gone. (Employer Seselj asks for a word, regarding the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3315	Don't make a circus out of the congregation. You know you won't do it, you won't talk about the Rules of Procedure, and you're still looking for it. Don't, Mr. Seselj. (Employee Seselj insists - cancel the Rules of Procedure. I would end this behavior where the Rules of Procedure is abused. (Employer Seselj, from the place, can do it, get me out of the National Assembly. Well, the voters will throw you out. I can't kick you out, but I'm asking you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure by reporting for word by the Rules of Procedure and speaking of something else. Please let us bring these things slowly to some normal and then... We have plenty of time to discuss this species. Most kindly, please... (Employer Seselj, from the post - I report to the Rules of Procedure. ) Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3316	Mr. President, you should have warned Cedomir Jovanovic... Not me... Article 64. [[Zagor - which member.]] Rules of Procedure. What are you laughing at? [[Laughter]] Everything's funny to you. And if I had said article 65, you wouldn't have laughed. First, Mr. Ceda Jovanovic here at this pay phone promised the National Assembly that in our judiciary...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3317	Mr. Seselj, don't talk about the Rules of Procedure and I...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3318	I'm talking about your leadership of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3319	I warn you, and I ask you to speak either of the Rules of Procedure or to leave the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3320	Ceda Jovanovic has promised the National Assembly here after this speaker that what has never happened in our judiciary will happen. And he's right there, but you had to warn him not to reveal DOS' secret. And as far as I'm concerned, I promise...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3321	Mr. Seselj, I take your word. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. The vote was 47, against 106, abstentioned one, did not vote 31, a total of 185 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 9, item 1, new point 9, 10, 14 and point 16.The amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I use the debate on the draft law in principle and in particular to state my position under the bill and that my position is directly, so without any corrections of addiction or of your regimeal media, the citizens of Serbia will be informed. I don't understand why I would go to committees when, according to all the amendments that we have submitted here, the reports of the committee are being rejected -- the amendment of the MP of that and that, for the reasons set out in the Government's opinion on the amendment. The Assembly committees are serving to confirm the government's opinion on the amendments submitted. So, what do I have to look for? The Committees of the National Assembly reject all amendments to the MPs. They don't engage, they just satisfy form and procedure, and don't point us to work on committees, because you're going to these committees just to comb what's arrived. If it weren't for that, you wouldn't even be missing the mistakes that are really obvious in the bill's proposals. What was my wish in the amendments of article 9. It's a bill of law. I must remind you that our economy has fallen and our citizens are poor. The reasons are multiple. We were exposed to the most rigorous sanctions in the world. We were exposed to bombings. Our companies had to pay blackmail and rackets to Macedonian companies, the state of Macedonia, many other countries, whose assistance you will find in our country by revealing the affairs you are now leading against people who have thus saved businesses and saved workers from destruction. In such conditions, we have come to a situation where the Government of the Republic of Serbia will also be in a month. Employers were unable to meet two conditions -- to pay off profits and to compensate the state by taxes on citizens' income. Not at all, no new value has been created, as Mr. Minister has not been created since October here. The government saw that their income on that basis could not be charged. But she wasn't as inhuman as your government is inhumane and as your minister is inhumane, so she says on television -- who can't pay for the profits let her close the factory. The government will take care of workers who lose their jobs. He's not very smart, but someone should have warned him. And from which, when you close all the factories, Mr. Minister, you'll be able to prepare the budget so well that it can support those who lose their jobs from those factories. It'll close. If that's what you're up to and if it's your wish, many companies will close down. Either find me a company that will be able to meet, or an employer, whatever new laws require of him. The importers will be able to do it. Your members will be able to deal with some of the affairs now even in monopoly regulations. Will the metal complex be able to do that? Will giants be able to work tens of thousands of workers? Like it or not, there they are every day at the factory gates. Is it simple for you to close down the car factory? Twice you listen to G-17 plus, imported cars as long as it takes in Serbia, close the car factory. That looks nice, but there's between 20,000 and 30,000 workers. That was our problem, too. As if we were just so illiterate, Mr. Minister. After all, this law could only be like amendments and additions to the existing law. Your story of harmonising with European laws in this area is a hollow story. The law is the same, as before, in the descriptions, with the fact that individual solutions "not to know the hairs" have been refuted in their heads. We could have done the same thing, Minister, but there was no reason, we weren't even afraid of the opposition, there was no opposition. The people were worried, asked the government to solve his problems. So there were warm meals, a regression for the use of vacations, as if it were very nice for us to pay something off, and the state had nothing to do with it, as if you had invented a pothole. But we're getting into a situation where it was the only source of income in families, only one who had no soul could bring taxes on those revenues. We haven't introduced taxes on those revenues, but that's why I tried to fix this Article 9 because I saw that you've been evicting from income tax, or disabled persons, who are employed by companies for professional training and rehabilitation of disabled people. Well, I really can't figure it out. Inmates in prisons, in the maintenance of fines convicted of serious crimes, you free their profits from income taxes, workers, who earn some income from psychiatric institutions, income tax exemptions, and disabled persons in special enterprises, in which there is no high-end technology, you release income taxes. You want to close down the companies of the so-called. DES, in which they worked disabled faces. Furthermore, I couldn't figure out what the legislator wanted with a hot meal tax, not taxing food on the official way. If he is a worker and eats lunch today in the company, or he has bought from some fee, which the employer gives him, food to eat in the company, tax will be paid on that, and if he goes on the road, he will be able to bring an account of up to 600 dinars, on that day that he ate lunch at the pub, at the restaurant, at the hotel "A" and "B" category, and for that he will not pay taxes on the income of citizens. I really don't get it, what is it? So now you tell the employers -- write travel orders to the workers, let each of them connect with some coffee maker, let him account for having lunch that day, two bills per 600 dinars, that's 1,200 -- here's a fee for a warm meal. Well, I guess it wasn't the employer's wish. I guess there's something that's been seen completely. You have not seen the total problems of the Republic of Serbia, which every citizen of our country has. We're a poor country. The laws should be made so that the poor can pay taxes, and you have made such taxes that they are paid by citizens of another country, who are well placed and have at least basic conditions for life, so let's also make the state stand by it. There's nothing there, you're offering us a spiral that's going to explode in June-July, and that's that DOS bomb that's going under Serbia. I'll wait for it here in Serbia, Minister, but I'd like you to wait here. I wish you weren't buying any more tickets to Paris. Bring your family, if you mourn them so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3323	Mr. Nikolic, the ninth minute is running, it's five minutes for the amendment, I'm really the last time I'm warning you to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3324	I really apologize to you, this amendment has four amendments in it, so think about it. I'm finishing up and I'm not going to answer again for this article, but I promise I'll pick up a few more members. So if you grieve for the minister's family, bring them to Belgrade, live here with them. With us together, bear the burden of these reforms, but with the salary you have as minister, and then we'll see you in July -- will you have changes and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3325	The word has a People's MP, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3326	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, it is not true that DOS refers to the opposition the way my predecessor spoke. Simply, some amendments were proposed by the opposition and were adopted at previous meetings, according to numerous agenda points. As for the amendment tabled by the Vice-President of the Radical Party, we would have accepted it if there were no member of the 21st law on the income tax of citizens, which says very clearly: "no taxes are paid on the earnings of disabled persons, employees of the company for working training and employment of disabled persons". So, I believe everyone is getting ready for the best sessions, but you need to get a little more prepared for those sessions, more careful to read the laws that are ahead of you, to propose amendments that don't deal with laws, to contribute in this way to the work of the government and the Assembly. But, Mr. Nikolic, this is the topic we've been thinking about and given an adequate, and I believe, quality answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3327	There's a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3328	I'm really, I'm taking it, I missed out on a disabled member of the 21st because there was a system room here. The legislator can pass the law so you can't handle it. Systemically, there was a place here, because if you freed the income tax of citizens who work in election committees and committees for the census, if you freed those who work in psychiatric institutions, those who work in prisons, there was also a place for disabled people who work in disabled persons' training companies, and you wrote one member just to get out of this what's the point, to throw in another member. I couldn't, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, no matter how hard I tried, unlike you who don't read these laws at all, I couldn't find every point and comma in the 28 laws. I accept that now it's a little easier for me, but the disabled deserve to be tax-free, but all my other objections remain. There's only one answer. And now I ask you, why is the income of members of election commissions exempt from the income tax of citizens? I'm asking you -- why are the censusors, who are going to make a list of the population, why their profits are freed from the income tax of the citizens, and the uncles and the midwives who collect forest fruits all day and all night long to collect something, everything they collect over 1,500 dinars, will pay taxes on the income of the citizens!?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3329	The word has a finance minister, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3330	I would like to remind you that they were released at the beginning of that bill of elections, which you voted in the beginning. It's just synchronising. So you were the first to introduce it, and we kept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3331	The word has a People's MP, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the context of the debate on this amendment, there is also a very important issue - the issue of legal normation, the issue of the construction of all these laws, the establishment of legal norms and their mutual harmonisation and systematicisation. That systemization is bad for you. You can tell from this. Why is it bad? Because you don't have professional people, because you have started to carry out incredible nepotism in all the structures of the government you have adopted, because you have appointed the wife of Zoran Zivkovic, Biserko Zivkovic, as the republican secretary for legislation. That's why we're getting these ridiculous billings. I have here a full list of the relatives of your officials you've set up. Do you want me to read to you now or within some other point? What do you think, Mr. President? (Lowers from the O.R.: Read now! ) You have appointed Milena Milosevic, wife of the Democratic Party's official, as director of Info's apartment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3333	I think you'll end it, though.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3334	I asked you. You've kept your mouth shut. I took it as an approval, so I continued. Since you've changed your mind, I can stop doing this, so I'm going to put it through some other agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3335	I warned you to stick to the agenda. Here, now I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3336	Don't warn me. Just tell me I can go on. I expected you to commend me, since I was very constructive and perceptive to your position and according to the position of the president of the National Assembly and the coalition partner of the other DOS parties. Appreciate my insight. Don't warn me. I'm going back to the agenda topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3337	I appreciate your insight.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3338	As far as this agenda point is concerned, one question is crucial. That's what we've been persecuting ourselves about for two days. It's a matter of warm meals and regression. Almost all collective agreements have a warm meal. By this law, you force both employers and trade union workers and government to make new collective agreements. You can't make any employer pay for a hot meal if he can't pay his taxes. You can't make anyone pay a regress if you make him pay a tax on that regress. Look, what an employer can do. Instead of paying a warm meal of 1,000 dinars a month, he can organize a fine in a collective, where one day beans, another day potatoes, will be cooked, is just a matter of whether or not this money can be provided. But what effect does it entail? An employer who cooks beans, cabbage or potatoes every day will not pay taxes because it will burden his basic business costs. But that's why the worker won't be able to wear a wrap in paper beans, potatoes or cabbage, so he can give it to his kids. (Glass from the O.R.: And the boranium! ) Of course, both boranium and peas. You're laughing because it doesn't interest you. You get dollar bills, so you find it funny. Most of you have never worked anywhere. You just know how to laugh. You're a coalition of laughter, a coalition of humor and entertainment. You just don't think here. By removing a warm meal, the security employers will at least watch to feed the workers while they are at work, if they can't pay him a regular salary from which to buy bread, beans, cabbage and potatoes, so they'll have at least that. But the worker won't be able to share it with his kids like he does when he gets 1,000 dinars, so buys what the whole family needs at the store. You might have some excuse to calculate how much a consumer basket costs. Now it costs about 12 grand. That you said: those whose salary is less than the cost of a consumer basket are not paid taxes for a warm meal, and those who have a salary greater than the cost of a consumer basket tax is paid. That would make sense. The director doesn't have the right to a warm meal, that state officials don't have that right, all those who have a salary above a certain amount, maybe 12 grand or 15 grand. To those whose salary is less than the cost of a consumer basket to regress for an annual vacation and free themselves from the obligation to pay taxes. You see, Minister, instead of asking for advice from someone you can't get any smart advice from, because Dejan Popovic is like a drained beech board, you should listen to the opposition's smart proposals and accept at least one. Accept this so that you do not tax employees a regress which is paid below the amount of the consumer basket.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3339	Anyone else answer for a word under this amendment? (No one) I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55 MPs, against 113, there were no abstentions, no 19 votes, a total of 187 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 9th by MP Borislav Pelevic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3340	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, amendment to Article 9(1), point 2. The bill provides for the exemption of income tax for citizens of compensation during maternity leave. This fee was used last year for 20,750 maternity care. I think it would be good to exempt this from the income tax of citizens, given that this would speed up the birth of children in Serbia. Dear Professor Marko Mladenovic, Serbia's largest family law expert, came out in public with an estimate that within 25 years, the Serb people will be a minority people in Serbia, and in 100 years, the Serbs will be only in individual areas of Serbia, or in individual enclaves. Accepting this amendment would be a good move and an expression of the government's goodwill for the future. I hope this is a slip out of the law, i.e. they didn't get rid of the income tax during maternity leave. I suggest that the Government and the National Assembly adopt this amendment. The other two points 12 and 13 have already been mentioned in this pay phone. It's about scholarships and loans from students and students and amateur athletes who are funded by clubs. I filed this amendment at exactly 13 o'clock. The government delivered the same amendment at 1800 hours. It is good for the government to consider opinions and opposition. It is good that they have adopted in some way the amendment of the Serbian Unity Party and other opposition parties, because this is about the general good. I hope it's all good in the interest of all of us, whether we're in position or in opposition. It's no shame, Mr. Minister, it's not ugly if the government accepts some of the opposition's amendments. This will show that you are a democratic government as you say it all the time. This will best show that you respect other opinions, not just government opinions. If you adopt that and admit it, it is quite certain that you will bring new quality into Serbia's political life. It should not be ashamed that individual opposition parties appear with amendments that are good, which are useful. I mean not only the Serbian Unity Party, but also the other two opposition parties. It would be good to respect the amendments written in the best of intentions and not adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3341	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I place the amendment of MP Pelevic. 61, against 98, abstentions 2, did not vote 25, a total of 186 MPs were present. I agree that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 9th item 1st item. The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic to the government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Please state the amendment of MP Dragan Markovic. For 53, against 100, abstentions 1, did not vote 32, a total of 186 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendments want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3342	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament in Article 14(1). Too many people on the income tax are deleted as a whole. In Article 14(1) of the Income Act, among other things, the receipts in the form of bons and money certificates are considered, contrary to the proposed amendments to the Labour Relations Act, Article 4, income on the earnings of Article 64v. All that is contrary to the law is your elemental character and mark of your DOS government, and everything that is in the interest of Serbian citizens is disturbing you for opposition and dissension. I am fully convinced that this amendment too will not be adopted by the tyranny of most, unfortunately, Serbian citizens of your well-known DOS manners. You will always vote against everything that is of interest to the citizens of Serbia. Do so this time, no matter what the quality of the amendment is, it's always the same result of the vote, it's always the same number. As in automation, you vote against, not thinking at all and not thinking about what such an amendment brings, whether it contributes to a better quality of the law. It's only important that you vote against, whether something has value or not. Do it this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3343	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 50, against 106, there were no abstentions, no voting was 28, a total of 184 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 14th, the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petric. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the MP want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3344	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, respected members of the government, I have tabled an amendment with a proposal to exempt from taxing the fees paid for a warm meal, means eating during work. We heard today and yesterday from several MPs who convincingly explained that we really shouldn't tax this expenditure. On the other hand, Minister Djelic said it was peas that the Socialists made it, that workers didn't know it wasn't entering the pension base and so on. I want to remind you of the next one. This warm meal was introduced and has been present for decades in our businesses, starting with factory cafeterias and restaurants to save that warm meal. In 1972, a regulation was passed that other legal persons could provide their workers with a warm meal, but only where he was preparing. So not in the ready, but in the restaurants of social nutrition or other restaurants. And the practice imposed something else, not artificially on some restaurants, but on allowing workers to pay that fee in cash. So this positive experience has been inherited for 30 years. Second, consider that for a large number of workers it is a main meal. Every day, there's less meat in that factory cafeteria. Today, workers can't buy meat for more than 15 days, and that's their main meal. And now we're proposing that we change that. What's gonna happen? It will happen that there will be the closure of these restaurants, the shutting down of these cafeterias, that there will be a lower quality of a warm meal in those companies that retain the cafeteria, and workers who received it in the ready will also be affected. It would be appropriate for the government to give up this proposal, at least for one period to stay until it starts and until the standard is increased, to preserve that part of the employee standards and to have what they have so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3345	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 55, against 111 abstentions, there were no votes, 19, a total of 185 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miroljuv Veljkovic to article 14th. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does an admancer want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3346	Since it is obvious that the vast majority of DOS MPs are absolutely not reading these bill proposals, it is not bad to define what Article 14 of this law says. He defines what is considered a profit and is not in monetary terms. It includes points, shares, goods, services and so on. It's all taxed. In the final position of this member, it is said that the tax authorities assess whether the price of these credits, shares, goods and services is marketable. That would look about like this on one of the banal cases. There are examples of life. He decides to help his employee finish the house. The company pays him off, and he drives home construction material, gets expensive work, workmates make a mob. That's how it's done in Serbia. If that is not how it is done in France or Germany, it is their handicap, that principle of solidarity is present in the being of the Serbian people and how. In the end, the company turns out to have spent 20,000 dinars on construction material for the worker. It's registered on invoices and the company is willing to pay the state tax on it. However, an income management expert appears and says: the value of the raised facility is 50,000 dinars. Working as a workmate, since he can't measure it, he'll probably say, according to the building's norm. Well, a colleague from work named Zika gave a pig, and it's a custom in the Serbian people, say, Pera gave a beer, someone paid for music, and so on. That expert will tax it all. This is just one banal example. I could count hundreds. You suggest that state authorities determine whether the price of any goods or services is marketable or not. You, who have promised this people a market economy, propose such a solution. Such a legal solution I warned you, Mr Minister, will allow the tax authorities to run a full volunteer policy when setting the prices, i.e. a fee referred to in points 2 to 4 of Article 2 of this Act. So someone's gonna charge, someone's not. In all these laws, why do you suggest some things that are not feasible in practice? When I see something like this proposed, I seriously doubt that Minister Djelic came to Serbia from capitalist France. More like he came from North Korea as soon as things like this were suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3347	Anybody else answer for a word? (No one) I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 46, against 111 abstentions, there were no 27 votes, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the MP want a word? (WHISPERING)
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3348	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, in the debate on the Law on Income Tax, Mr. Djelic, Minister of Finance, spoke to us several times, thank him for that. With all the sympathy I have for him, as a young and professional man, what I do not approve of or for which I do not have sympathy, these are the arguments and arguments that Minister Djelic gives regarding both this law and the previous legal projects whose author he is. So, the Law on Income Tax is not a reform law. In him, as he said himself, there's nothing special about it. The arguments used in the interpretation, I will list them in the order that Minister Djelic said, that the solutions in this law are competitive, that they are attractive, that they are fair, that they are realistic and that they clearly correspond to the ambience in our Republic. I objectively ask for whom are these solutions competitive, for whom are they attractive, for whom are they just and for whom are they real? Maybe for someone else. I'm sure for taxpayers, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, private entrepreneurs and businesses that don't stand. I'd rather say they're murderous and will lead to a very difficult situation and position both citizens and taxpayers and the economy of our Republic. In confirmation of what I'm saying there are over 100 amendments submitted by MPs from opposition parties, but there are also from the Dossov majority, I've seen them. There are also 20 amendments the Serbian government has submitted to this law, which confirms what my predecessors have also spoken of. That is why I have suggested that in Article 16 of the amendment, which should read "The profits of Articles 13 and 14 of this Law are taxed at a rate of 12% on the basis of which they are paid, i.e. earned profits". Why? The basic solution is 14%. You said that she was and that nothing changes in that. That's true, and I agree with you. But if we add to that what I wrote in the explanation, which is in Articles 13 and 14 of the Law, which are defined as income on the basis of working relationship and contract on temporary and occasional transactions, which includes labour compensation and other incomes under this and by law. In Article 14(1) of this Act, it is found that, in the sense of Article 13, income is also considered to be other basics and Article 2 of this Law, which constitutes the basis of the income tax. I don't want to mention all the things that the predecessors said before me, the regression, the warm meal, the transportation and other things that were written. I'm gonna narrow it down to you keeping the rate that it was, but you've significantly expanded the base of taxation, which you probably didn't... I hope Mr. Djelic is aware. He can't suggest without being aware. That's not what I said. I said Mr. Djelic explained it and he's aware of it. So it's not an accident, it's a intention. It brings into the context of my story who is attractive, who is realistic and so on. So it's not. What will result, as a consequence, if the amendment is not adopted, and I am sure it will not, will significantly increase the taxpayers' obligations to citizens, private entrepreneurs and businesses, bringing them into a difficult material position that will result in them not being able to carry out tax obligations, and that will result in them not being filled with the budget, which is ultimately both unrealistic and unreal, and so on. Thirdly, everyone will be in the situation and under the impact of criminal provisions written in 20 members, who are unrealistic, rigorous and, excuse the term, as if they were written for the enemies of the state, not for our citizens and for the economy, which I also consider to be unreal, unrealistic and so forth. (President: Time) I'm sorry for the overrun 15 seconds. I didn't speak in the principle debate. That's why I suggested that changes be made and that my amendment be accepted to introduce a 12% rate instead of 14%, because then it would confirm everything you said. If you don't adopt it, let the one whose resurrection we will celebrate on Sunday help you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3349	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? (No) I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 52, against 115, there were no abstentions, no 17 votes, a total of 184 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (WHISPERING)
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3350	I agree with the finance minister that the 14% profit tax rate is not high. If parallel analyses are made with other European countries or countries in the environment, it is not high. However, the minister did not take into account that this so-called reform tax package, through other laws, burdened the economy and the employees, and that by expanding what my predecessor had said, the basis for taxing profits with a regression, a warm meal, a field supplement and other miracles, he put firms in a position not to be able to pay net profits. A minister from the government of the Republic of Serbia, the minister of labour, has recently said -- the state will charge a profit tax, we are absolutely not interested in whether the company will be able to function and whether the workers will receive the salaries at all. I'm telling you that many companies won't be able to pay their salary taxes, pay their workers' wages, or significantly reduce them. So they're going to have to reconcile to the state what's prescribed, 14% with this increased base, but that's why they're going to reduce the net income of these workers, or they're going to end them completely. Where it leads, you should be aware, if you vote against this amendment. What will this people live on? We are currently entertaining him by arresting Slobodan Milosevic, a number of stories about some help, co-operation with Europe and so on. However, gentlemen of the government, gentlemen of the DOS, will hardly hold water for long. As Mr. Toma Nikolic said, June or July, we'll see. Another in agreement with Mr Djelic -- it is true that a time bomb is being bombed in Serbia. Her explosion will cause an empty stomach, gentlemen from the government and gentlemen from the DOS. For these reasons, I suggest that the profit rate is reduced by 4% and is 10%.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3351	Anybody else answer for a word? (No). I put the amendments tabled by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. For 51, against 114 abstentions, there were no, no 17 votes, a total of 182 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 16th amendment in the same text, the MPs Milorad Mircic and Tomislav Nikolic submitted. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3352	Since the rate of income tax on citizens is in the function of collecting 25 billion and 400 million dinars, which are to be merged into the government's budget, the idea of this amendment is that, based on the methodology of gross income that makes up a larger base, the tax rate can be reduced. The tax rate was held at 14%, the rate applied to a completely different method, i.e. a different calculation methodology. Since only the Ministry, or the Government in the proposal, said that the gross income includes items such as a warm meal, a regression or a field supplement, I see no reason why the Government did not reduce the tax rate, so it would show that it is willing with a new gross income methodology to collect 25 billion. Of course. The government has kept from previous solutions all of what is now a guarantee that as soon as possible this amount of tax revenue will be collected, all of which explains by the fact that we need to get involved in European flows as soon as possible, in the European community, however, it was obvious that at no time did we, by standard, still on conditions, by economy, not even close to this European community, and by reducing the tax rate, would not have affected anything, when it comes to the absolute amount that the government needs to collect.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3353	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word under this amendment? I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 119 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, and a total of 185 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposed amendment. To Article 18. ... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Hello, hello, I am reporting by amendment. It's already been voted, I asked. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: My amendment has nothing to do with his. And yours was together, I asked if the amendment promoters, and you're in an earlier... Okay, but it's already been voted. It's over, I asked, why didn't you follow? You can check in the stenographic notes that I asked, I called you, did the promoters, did any of the authorized participants want a word? Please, we're done, we voted on that amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3354	Please conduct a session of the Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The two of us didn't sign the same amendment. He was not first signed on the joint amendment. Mr. Mircic explained his amendment. I was waiting for you to ask me if I wanted to explain my amendment? You asked us to vote on the amendment Mr. Mircic explained. How can we come out on two amendments and explain them both when each amendment is voted on separately? Just because the text is identical doesn't mean that they're the same amendments, so I'm asking you to think about it, to say that I submitted an amendment to a member of the law and give me your word to explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3355	Thus, Milorad Mircic and Tomislav Nikolic, MPs, submitted the same amendment. When the text is identical to the last detail, it is clear that it is simple, about the same amendment. You can't, even though it just happens to be exactly the same text. We've had 15 cases so far, so let's talk about this. Clearly, if the exact text is that it is the same amendment. I don't see any political, no logical, no linguistic interpretation that can be different. That's how it's pointed out here. So both applicants have the right to comply with the Rules of Procedure for five minutes... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: that's what you're writing to the Rules of Procedure now? No, it's in the Rules of Procedure. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: what does it say? This, I'm telling you. They have the right to explain. It is perfectly natural and logical that every applicant of the amendment, no matter what the text is identical, has the right to explain separately, each for himself, because they may be different reasons, but when voted, it is voted once because it is an amendment in the same text. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: I am not given the word to explain the amendment. ) I was at that moment outside the O.R., as far as I heard from the chairman, she asked if the applicants of the amendment were reporting for a word. Please, if there is no short-term need, since the vote is over, I don't see any way we can take the debate back now. Should we continue the amendment to Article 18 or should we put it, given that the vote is complete... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: We voted on the amendment of Milorad Mircic. ) No, no, on a joint amendment. It's identical, the only question is if you used your right, and you were right to explain it. Please continue your work. We can't fix this right now, but I'm asking you to answer for a word when you're invited. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3356	You, Mr. President, are very easy and you can simply solve this problem by realizing that the amendment of Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic has been voted on, and only now comes the amendment of MP Tomislav Nikolic. For Article 142, paragraph 4 states that the National Assembly specifically decides on any amendment that the legislator, committee or government did not accept. So, on every amendment, whether there are amendments to the same text. That's how it's decided on committees.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3357	Of course it's decided and we've done it all this time and we've done it on every amendment. But, I repeat, when you have one amendment that has submitted several proposals, it is the same amendment... I'm giving an explanation. You may request that we make that clear, but it's... Then let's continue with Article 18. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3358	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are violated, because Article 134 says nicely: "The applicant of the amendment, if the amendment proposes several MPs, the authorised representative of these MPs", means it can come out for debate. This is about an amendment signed by several MPs. And in this case, there are two amendments that have the same text, but they have signed two different MPs and are treated as two different amendments, although they are in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3359	You gave me the answer yourself, and there's no need for me to give it. Please move on to... The amendment of Tomislav Nikolic. The vote found that the National Assembly did not accept the amendment of the MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Milorad Mircic. Please keep this session going the same way we've done before, and we've already had more cases like this, to consider that it's done the way we've done so far in accordance with Article 134. Rules of Procedure, when it comes to amendments proposed in the same text by several Members of Parliament. Therefore, it shall not be denied the right to explain the amendment to anyone but, by the nature of the matter and by the nature of the provisions of Article 134. It shall be decided once, because it is an amendment in the same text. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted a second amendment to Article 18. The Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become part of the draft law. On Article 18, point 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Radoicicic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3360	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 18 of point 1 in order not to restrict transport for workers of 800 dinars. I argue that economic operators are located in urban areas and that this basis would lead to disturbances, so that some would be privileged while others would be in a position to bear that part of the costs themselves. Secondly, I have also submitted an amendment to Article 18 of point 5 that the amount limited to 10,000 solidarity aids in case of illness, health rehabilitation or disability of an employee or member of his family is not limited, because it is an opportunity for businesses to help our workers in such a situation, to increase that amount, to help them further rehab.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3361	Anyone else want a word? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 46, against 105, the abstentions were not voted 28, a total of 179 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted to Article 18 by MP Milorad Mircic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3362	The rejection of this amendment is obvious evidence, in a series of evidence, of how much the government respects the reality that is happening. We all know public transport cost 15%. (Glasses - where. Where you hold the power, sir, and don't win. Learn how to do it once in a row. Don't throw it away. Come out for this pay phone. Don't play the mutant, just you who offer that economic policy in Belgrade, you need me as an expert, that's what Covic was to you... No wonder you walked when you were three months old...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3363	Please, let's get back to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3364	How you look and how smart you are...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3365	Mr. Mircic and Mr. Bogdanovic, please stop private conversations and return to the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3366	First, he insults me. Namely, what it's about. The government limited the transport costs to 800 dinars. The Serbian Radicals proposal is to move the limit to 1,000 dinars, 200 dinars is the difference. It's not much of a difference, but based on which arguments the government refuses. No, because the SRS proposal came... You're the only one who gets it. You are the only ones who earn, but beware of those to whom this cost is and how significant. You're taking a hot meal, and now you won't even be able to drive it. They won't be able to get to work. The price of public transport is 15%, and in the city's traffic, prices are rampant. Well, we could... They could buy bicycles from Panic. [[You can't hear a comment from the gym.]] Now he's going to import it. Well, he's a graduate pharmacist, too, at Batic's, and he was selling bikes. Secondly, solidarity aid is limited by the government to 10,000 dinars. When we translate it into some real values, which are acceptable to you, or more specifically, one part of DOS, into German marks, that's 300 marks. Is it really some means that can make a significant aid to those in such a situation, who need help? Why does the government stick so tightly to some of its provisions, not to increase, or to limit, we did not say Decided - that and that figure, or that and that amount, but we increased to 25,000 dinars. There may be working organizations, collectives, which will pay this amount in accordance with their capabilities and in small amounts, there may be those who will have the opportunity to pay even more, but why would those who are able not pay, not to pay, but to those who need help, to be greater, higher aid, why deny them that possibility? Nothing is lost, but these are stubborn, as you say, principled reasons -- everything that comes from Serbian radicals, you reject everything, you deny everything, but you'll see gentlemen, what you say as real costs and what the minister said is in stores where he buys, all cheap, you'll see what the people tell you about that cheapness.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3367	Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 50 MPs, against 106, there were no abstentions, no 22 votes, a total of 178 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee, did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3368	Rade Simic, this respected colleague of mine from Vrnjaka Banja, has pledged to vote for this amendment. Is it the manner of the entire Democratic Party to lie, however, Cedo, I must warn you, I saw that he had just sat down at Chancellor Djindjic's place here, that is a dangerous sign. Knowing Radet well, take care of it. In Article 18, some amounts of costs, which are not burdensome, are defined. I have proposed this amendment to two things -- firstly, that in point 2 of the title -- the food allowance for the country's official journey, the amount of the untaxable part from 600 dinars is increased to 1,000 dinars. With your tax reform you have significantly increased the prices of all food products and services in restaurants. Too bad Mr. Djelic isn't here to give us a short course on public finances. Every smart finance minister with tax measures, legal measures, speeds up the consumption of products, which carry a high amount of sales tax, a high amount of excise duties and so on. What the state loses in the budget, if, for example, a business man spends 1,000 dinars for the official trip, means, for a diet for official travel, the state collects the sales tax that you've raised, the state collects excise taxes, since you've even loaded the juices with excise duties, so the budget doesn't lose anything. You've only limited this to, instead of speeding up consumption, hence and production, we're reducing consumption by these limits, and that's what the finance minister should know. I also suggested that the limitation in point 4. be deleted. That's where you predicted that transport costs for a month, for official travel, would be up to 1,500 dinars. You're taxing everything above that. Whoever suggested this obviously doesn't have one working day in the economy. Imagine, for example, a commercial passenger, or any businessman, whose business is related to car use, means, for a great use of cars, that with these prices of gasoline that we now have, it spends 1,500 dinars a month. That's just impossible. If he spends more, then, we have found, immediately on the scene, "Attil, the whip of God", Minister Djelic, and the surplus is taxed. That's why merchants and business people -- I suggest they all go to conditioning, and that's as early as tonight. They're gonna have to walk a lot in doing their jobs if they don't think this government takes at least three belts off their backs. Common sense says, honourable Members of the people, that these restrictions should be completely erased. Delete this, and it previously increases to at least 1,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3369	Anybody else answer for a word? (No answer) I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 47, against 111 abstentions, there was no vote of 14, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 18, bet 1 point. 3, 4th and 5th amendments were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee, did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3370	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Article 69, paragraph 3. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the obligation to pay taxes and other taxes is determined according to the taxpayer's economic strength. It would be good if the minister and his high-ranking deputy had tried something on white mice. That we don't serve here as guinea pigs for a new reform tax policy, who wants to strip naked? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this looks nice on paper, there's nobody to charge from. We've come into a situation to defend and what we should never defend, what shouldn't have occurred to a smart state, so I can't imagine at all that you've been dividing yourselves for days to think about -- what else there is to be charged, and you don't realize that basic tax obligations, taxpayers won't be able to pay. You have now taken the old laws, which have been in force so far, and you have only dealt with it -- which of these exemptions from the old laws should be deleted, and what, possibly, of these releases may remain in the new laws. This isn't a new tax policy. This isn't reform policy. These are old tax laws, a little makeup, sometimes a bad make-up doesn't necessarily mean that a woman who's always wearing makeup is beautiful and that she's always beautiful in makeup. Toco and this member I've given the amendments to. A member makes up that the income tax for official travel is no longer tax-free, but is only freed from eating on the official trip. The diet is freed up to 600 dinars. I have suggested that the daily for the official trip to the amount of 300 dinars be exempt from the income tax of citizens. Whether he eats lunch in a pub or not, whether he saves, whether he eats at home, and when he comes home, having lunch again, the legislator is no longer interested. Technically, at point 4, you didn't write 30% of the price of one liter of super gasoline. You didn't write how to pay. It was supposed to be a one-mile payday. You didn't even copy it from the previous law. And that could be the basis for big dilemmas. The government will not be able to regulate it by regulation, or some of its interpretations of the law. We're going to have to have changes and additions to the law again. What else do you say when we talk for days about new tax obligations that are being seduced by those who have not been able to pay the tax obligations so far? Let's start from now on, and every next amendment to warn you that it is waiting for us, as Ivo Andric would say, "a hot summer and a ripe fruit." I expect the autumn to be sordid in the Republic of Serbia over these tax reforms of yours. The citizens are already creeping out. They say the first package of tax laws passes this week. They're asking if they've delivered any new bill proposals. I say they're not. Citizens are beginning to guess what else you'll come up with to charge Serbian citizens in terms of obligations and taxes. You've turned into a liability, a tax, and you've turned into an open hack to all those who've done something in this country before you. You've put this country in a position where everyone among you who is now in a high position is concerned about what will happen to him when the government changes. In your opinion, who has performed more responsible state functions is more responsible when power is changed. There's no state secret for you either if that's a way for anyone in the previous government to be discredited. You've got off to a very bad start. You started out the way neither of us who lost your authority did. It would be best if the opposition didn't react to tax laws at all. We can't help you reduce your obligations, and this kind of procedure will ruin your citizens. It would be good for us to be soulless, like you, and wait for this to affect the citizens of Serbia badly, to appear as people who have done it differently. But this is more honest and politically correct than we are. We're warning you in time. We've submitted a lot of amendments. You're no longer accusing us of obstructing. It is clear to you that these amendments are good. It was clear to the government as soon as she wrote more than 20 amendments herself. I'm finishing my speech, Mr. President. Maybe I won't pick up any more amendments, but I will, actually.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3371	Anyone else answer for a word? (Niko) I am putting MP Tomislav Nikolic's amendment to the vote. For 47, against 107, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, a total of 170 MPs were present. I would like to inform you that the session of the Youth and Sports Committee will be held during today's session in the third floor hall. We'll continue the session at 15 hours and 35 minutes. [[after breaks]] Please confirm the quorum. I find that we do not have a quorum and I ask all MPs who work and who are on board to bring an end, to stop working and to come to the session. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3374	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the President of Parliament didn't give me the replica last time, said I didn't know what I was writing about, so they have to whisper to me, now I'm going to show you. I submitted amendments 5.04.2001 at 8.20 in the morning. The government handed over 6.04.2001 at 23.10 pm. Well, now who's lying here? For Mr. Cvetanovic, you said he didn't apply to him, because he handed it over before the government, or about 12 hours after I did. It doesn't matter. I asked that in Article 18, point 4, which refers to the use of my own car, the amount of 1,500 dinars, be replaced by 10,000 dinars, and here's why. In almost 90% of cases, a private car for official purposes is used by public enterprises, bodies and organisations seeking budget funding. And of us here 250 as many as there are, at least a hundred comes by car to the assembly session and charges for so many diaries. So this House, on behalf of the IRS, is going to pay 20% for every dinar of over 1,500 dinars that these MPs spend here. It's okay to pay 20% of those funds more, but it's not right that those 20% will take from Serbian citizens. If you're already paying, then don't take that 20% from the citizens. Take it from the logs, your MPs who don't sit in MPs' benches, because never more than 100 of your deputies sit here. You can see that by the vote, 100 to 115, but that's why they charge the daily and regular bills. In point 5, I asked that the amount of 10,000 dinars be replaced by 30,000 dinars. This is the amount to help treat a sick family member or any other sick person, because by introducing participation in health care, people have been denied one part of the right to treatment. No sir, you may not know anything about it, but I will tell you that about 100 children from this Republic of Serbia are operated on by my money. Now you're introducing a tax on every donation, and each one you give to treat children, which exceeds 10,000 dinars. I want to give the kids whenever I have, but I won't give it to the government. I'm not giving the budget. I won't let the finishers buy, because construction works are now expected. Just laugh. Taxation of donations in this sphere, especially in the treatment of children, is shameful. You're going to make people not to give any more dinars, and every day your newspaper is filled with an appeal for help to children who are scheduled to go to surgery abroad. I raised this to 1,000 DM, the amount to be given for treatment, just to make it easier for you. You say, since it was 6,000 before, 10,000 is enough now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3375	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3376	It's enough for a plane ticket to Podgorica, because it'll be abroad soon enough for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3377	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been given by the MP, Mr Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3378	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is again an incorrect interpretation of the bill. I would ask the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party to prepare more carefully, at least in situations where we respect the amendments, because what you were talking about doesn't really stand. No one's doing that kind of taxation, and no one's thinking of that. Read the Income Tax Bill carefully and you will see that you are wrong. Or deny me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3379	If no one's answering again, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3380	In article 9, Mr. Jovanovic, which you have now quoted, it says that the aid in the event of the death of an employee and a member of his family, a retired worker of up to 20,000 dinars, don't God, I haven't talked about any death. I was talking about treatment. It's in article 18, Mr. Jovanovic, not in Article 9.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3381	It's not a replica. It's a group of MPs. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3382	Right as the head of the parliamentary group allowed me to react in this way, so exemption from income for taxation Article 9 of point 11. - organized, social and humanitarian aids.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3383	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 53, against 130, there were no abstentions, no 5 votes, a total of 188 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 18th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3384	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as I said, this government must indeed fall. I have submitted an amendment to Article 18, points 4 and 5. I'll be free to read, so I can explain what's going on. "No income tax is paid on the income of an employee on the basis of, in point 4, the transport charges on an official journey, according to the attached accounts of public transport operators, and when, according to the law and other regulations, it is authorised to use its own car - up to 30% of the price of one litre of super gasoline and up to 1,500 dinars at most." In the amendment, I suggest that the amount be increased from 1,500 to 12,000 dinars. The reason for the increase lies in an inappropriately small amount that the government will not tax. The amount of up to 1,500 dinars for official travel, you will admit yourself, is too small without being taxed. Very few working organizations use their own transport. A large number of official trips by officials are carried out by private vehicles. Any amount spent over 1,500 dinars will be taxed. That says enough how expert this government is, that she hasn't thought about the problem. Given the inflationary costs of the movement, which you predicted by the budget, which is four times higher than last year, it is obvious that this amount of 1,500 dinars is ridiculously small. In Article 18, paragraph 5, which refers to non-payment of income tax, the following is said: "solidar aid in case of illness, health rehabilitation or disability of an employee or member of his family - an amount of 10,000 dinars". With the amendment, I suggest you double that amount, I suggest it be 20,000 dinars. You heard Mr. Vučurovic and Mr. Veljkovic and any further absorption on that subject to you, which you do not understand at all, would be unnecessary. But, to the public, I wanted to mention that this small amount is clearly not real. After all, it says enough how expert this government really is, how much it has come to solving this problem and how high-quality it has passed this whole package of laws that we are considering these days, and even this income tax law. I suggest that the amendment be adopted and that your amounts increase.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3385	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 56, 131 abstentions were voted against, one did not vote 5, a total of 193 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic submitted the 18th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3386	The amendment has two parts: Article 18 after point 5 adds point 6 which reads "retributions on retirement to the amount of average earnings in the Republic of Serbia". Business, entrepreneurs and other taxpayers are already too burdened with taxes and other taxes. I therefore propose this amendment not to pay the income tax, to receive an employee up to the amount of average earnings in the Republic of Serbia on the basis of severance pay on retirement. After regular number six, the regular number 7 is added, and the text reads "a monthly diet fee for workers with a well-fused work experience". Workers whose internship counts with an increased duration of the so-called benefits of work, perform the most difficult jobs, jobs that require special psychophysical efforts, while rapidly reducing their working ability during work. These jobs are dangerous to health and to life. They're being performed under the most difficult weather conditions in the field, at night and so on. The labour supply is minimal in this category. In the labour market, this labour force is practically not available. Since it is quite obvious that the government will not give up its intention to tax the monthly food fee during the work called a warm meal, this amendment suggests that at least for this category of employees this fee is not taxed. If the employer becomes a heavy burden for tax purposes, he will cease to pay it. Due to reduced earnings, interest in doing these jobs will cease. Let me remind you, it's about the interests of the engineer, the car eater, the maneuverist, the train messenger on the train, the cop and so on. The Government may specify this amendment by benefiting from the tax exemption from the monthly food allowance during work for a given category of employees, up to the amount identified as the lowest general collective contract. I am surprised that this amendment was not supported by the former leader of the Association of Free and Independent Unions, and now the minister of labour and employment or his successor, now a folk MP in the Serbian Parliament. Perhaps in the abundance of amendments they did not notice this amendment. I hereby warn them and expect them to support it, because in the pre-election activities you have advocated the rights of workers, the removal of taxis, contributions and everything else. This is a chance to at least help this category of workers, Mr. Minister, and correct it. You're in power now, and that's easy for you. Unfortunately, it seems that we Serbian radicals have not been successful enough to show in pre-election activities what power will come to Serbia, but here is the opportunity for Serbian citizens to hear if you are ready to help them at this time. Minister Batic should have thought of this. Ministers, it is better to think about laws than to organise some false conventions, to collect some apostates from the Serbian Radical Party, criminals and to organise some false and extraordinary conventions with them. Your job is the law. Grandma, Grandma, you're naughty again. It's really serious stuff, and I think this is an opportunity to help people who do the hardest work, by providing them with a profit through tax evasion and a contribution to a so-called warm meal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3387	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3388	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is again in the case of a partial interpretation of the proposed Income Tax Act. In fact, the already famous Article 9th point 18 is a response to the amendment to the Serbian Radical Party MP, with the government, after consultations with the unions, proposing an amendment, so that in point 18, what stands and adds "to the general collective agreement" is eventually deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3389	I'm looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3390	There's no replica here. He didn't interpret you, he gave his opinion. Gentlemen, the replica is not the opening of a debate on the views of the MP. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 49, against 131 abstentions, there were no, no 17 votes, a total of 197 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 18, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3391	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, the honourable MPs, the honourable members of the government, my amendment to Article 18 consists of two parts. The first part of paying taxes on public transport charges and the second part on paying taxes for the use of cars for its own purposes. In fact, the government proposed not to pay a tax on the remuneration of an employee paid to him on the basis of public transport costs for coming and returning from work, but at the most up to 800 dinars. In view of the fact that a large number of workers travel to a job from a distance where the transport ticket significantly exceeds 800 dinars, it would be unfair for them to be taxed in addition to the inconvenience of being more distant from their jobs and spending much more time on leaving and returning from work. Furthermore, there is a common practice for employers to send these workers on a forced vacation because of the considerable costs of transport, and now with the introduction of this taxation we will bring them into an even more difficult situation. Workers who live from a job to 10 kilometers to their costs of transportation tax. No one should be taxed on this basis, and if someone should be privileged, they should have long-distance workers, who are more harassed in going to work and on their way home from work. Furthermore, we have a case in the hill-mounted area where the settlements are far away, where the houses are from each other on a rifleball, they barely organize transport because they are inert lines, and that's why it's more expensive to transport. In 15 kilometers, we now have a price of 30 dinars, or go to work and return 60 dinars. It is already 1,320 dinars and now with the proposed increase it will be 1,700 dinars and indeed what is the interest in taxing this. I will quote the government's position "no proposal is rejected, which is estimated not to stimulate the tax to a greater extent than the proposed one". That's from the amount of 800 dinars. What logic is that? Furthermore, we have in the hill-mounted area that these buses are used by children who go to school. Tomorrow, when these workers are sent to the unpaid, the buses won't go, so neither can the children go to school and in other words, instead of stimulating those people in the area where they live, we'll stimulate them to move, to empty villages, that they can't live there. I think it's really illogical here, and it would be quite right to change this attitude, because it's not been valid so far, and this is hard to sustain, but so far, at least, it's in the proposal. I think it would be appropriate for this to change. In the same article, I had a proposal at point 4. To make changes. It says "when, according to the law and other regulations, an official trip with its own car is approved, the government proposes not to tax that fee up to 30% of the price of one liter of super gasoline and up to 1,500 dinars per month at most." Taking the current price of 38 dinar gasoline means that it is untaxed by 11.4 dinars per litre, and for 1,500 dinars a month can be crossed by its own car by 131 kilometers. If we want to use the experience of developed Western countries where most employees use their own cars for official travel, without getting official cars, without drivers, without other costs and so on, why don't we follow that? Let's do a real calculation of how much gas that costs, how much amortization of cars per mile. It doesn't have to be 30%. The MPs here who use their own car pay 15% and make a real calculation. I can accept that there should be an official long-distance vehicle, but to make this move so it can just go from Chuck to Uzic, and it can't go to Novi Sad and come back... I don't think economics is really stimulating. Second, there's not even a job being done effectively, and then that reference guy's gonna be waiting for the official car, so he can't do it today, so he can't make it tomorrow's turn. There's no profit in it, why it's taxed, it's real expenses. In the United States, the average journey from job to house is 23 kilometers. We predicted that it would be untaxed 10 kilometers. I think these amendments should be accepted, they deserve attention and economic logic will not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3392	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 62, against 133, there were no abstentions, no vote was 10, a total of 205 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 18, paragraph 1 of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Casey.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3393	The amendment to Article 18, which I submitted, had multiple intentions, and above all, I wanted to try calling on the government with this amendment to a little sense and to propose a law on income tax for citizens. Namely, this look for you insignificant member of the Law on Income Tax is very important, above all, because of the small economy. In fact, mostly private entrepreneurs use their own vehicles for official purposes by having travel orders and using their own vehicles to visit tax users at points, so citizens. First of all, it refers to those private entrepreneurs involved in service. For example, home appliances services that we all need and which are unfortunately in very poor condition, so the need for repairers is almost necessary because we do not have the material opportunity to buy new home appliances. Surely every citizen wants to have a proper refrigerator, that he doesn't have to cool food in the dug wells with jam, I believe that the majority of the DOS coalition will accept this amendment, to the law, which will help private entrepreneurs facilitate their arrival to citizens. Also, there are specialized organizations involved in the design of computer programs. Such specialized organizations are located in larger cities, and the need for service is also located in many places where business organisations, which need this type of service. I therefore believe that 1,500 dinars of untaxed funds are not enough monthly for this kind of work, a team before 1,500 dinars are enough for example to make the journey from Somboro to Novi Sad only once, let alone enough for monthly work. For these reasons, I suggest that Article 18 paragraph 1 point 4 changes instead of 1,500 dinars to stand 2,000 dinars with confirmations, i.e. travel orders of users.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3394	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 56, against 128, the abstentioned one, 21 had not voted in total, 205 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Pelevic submitted to the 18th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the MP want a word? (WHISPERING)
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3395	Dear ladies and gentlemen, in preparing for this session, I have studied this bill as well as the law that has been in force so far. I noticed that many members were prescribed from that law. I want to believe that the amendment I filed was left out, since it was contained in the previous law. The amendment reads that taxes on citizens' income should be released daily fees for increased costs of staying and working on the ground, a field allowance of up to 150 dinars per day. I suggested this because of what was contained in the previous law. I believe that the government's explanation for refusing this amendment simply doesn't stand, because the field supplement is one of the receipts. However, it pays to those workers who are on the ground, therefore, who are separated from their family, from their house, who are usually housed in barracks, who work hard throughout the day, usually physical jobs, because they are mainly construction and similar companies, and most often do not have an organized diet. The same member of this law provides for the exemption of income tax on citizens' fees for official travel in the country up to 600 dinars a day, and compensation for official travel abroad, as well as accommodation costs on an official trip, if the hotel's A and B bills are applied. It's okay and it really needs to be freed. But do workers travel on official trips? Are the directors and heads of large enterprises on the ground who usually have far more salaries than ordinary workers? No, ladies and gentlemen, there are mostly regular workers working in very difficult conditions. This field supplement represents only one stimulating income and should not be entered into a profit fund, i.e. income, which is taxed under this law. So I suggest that this amendment be accepted because the barracks do not even involve the inhospitable categories A and B. Also, these people have a longer period of time separated from their families and work hard and hard on different meteorological conditions. I hope that the MPs will accept this amendment and will ensure that these people improve their material position, given the difficult working conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3396	Anybody else answer for a word? (No one) I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 60, against 124 abstentions, one did not vote 23, a total of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Zivko Selakovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the MP want a word? (WHISPERING)
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3397	Where are my amendments to Article 18 point 1 of point 3, 4 and 5?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3398	That's what we did. We also have the number of votes. That was the ninth amendment before this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3399	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 27, in fact, to add a new position to that member, which would read: "The bond that funds invests in the commercialisation and meliorisation of land is recognised as normable costs that cannot be above 30% of the rate of cadastrian income." In order to explain a little why I proposed this amendment, I'll say the following: we all know that we're all in favour of land-composing. It's a build-up of land property. We all know what the costs are when it comes to gambling. So I suggested that I put this amendment in order for taxpayers to be released at 30%. Why do I say that? Because this is very significant, it was also contained in the previous, up to today's law, in the provision of Article 35(2) of that Law, also covered this release, i.e. the recognition of costs, given the difficult situation of farmers. There's one more thing I want to point out, I think the new government always wants to do something new, because that's why she's chosen and wants to show herself. But I don't know, which is why of these 600 amendments, 50% of that is less than agricultural. Why don't we respect something, at least a few amendments, regarding agriculture? Here, I take it upon myself, in front of the Soviet Parliament group, I think that opinion is shared by the opposition, that we be responsible for the citizens, if something is wrong with these amendments on agriculture, which we propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3400	Anybody else answer for a word? (No one) I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 63, against 127, the two abstentions did not vote 15, a total of 207 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Pelevic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does he want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 119, there were no abstentions, no 32 votes, a total of 207 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 28th amendment was submitted by Petar Jojic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does he want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3401	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 28. The citizens' income bill, considered necessary to reduce the tax rate from 20% to 15%. I believe that the rate of income tax on agriculture and forestry is 20% and should be reduced to 15%. Given the great difficulties that agriculture has been facing in recent years, agriculture needs to be helped in every way possible to get out of the crisis it is in. A reduction of 5% of the income tax on agriculture for our farmers would mean a lot. Ten-year sanctions have left severe consequences on our agriculture, and sanctions have particularly negatively affected individual agricultural producers, as primary producers of agricultural products in 87% of the total agricultural production in our Republic. Obsolete machinery, lack of spare parts and expensive repromation have put our peasants in a very difficult position, so our agrarian needs now and the state to help and facilitate greater production. Farmers should be able to easily obtain artificial fertilizer at lower prices, to obtain cheaper seeds and diesel fuel, which at this time is the only salvation for our farmer at the time of spring. In addition to the above, I think it is also necessary to take action in the area of agriculture: to launch a production process in agriculture and livestock, so that we do not come into the situation of importing food that we can export and achieve a foreign exchange inflow. In the case of purchases of agricultural products, our farmer must pay for the products in the field during the purchase, not for the farmer to wait for the payment of sugar beet, sunflower and other agricultural products to be paid by the State or another buyer after a year and more days or more delays. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to ask your attention, where today's newspaper "The Voice of the Public" published a lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3402	This has nothing to do with the amendment to article 28 you filed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3403	There, there's just gonna tell you that it's been said, you were present in the House of Representatives, so please, you're the witnesses here. Why is the prosecutor silent, Petar Jojic, an MP, suggested the formation of a polling committee for Slobodan Milosevic. They said, "Why don't we start a procedure against BK TV?" I didn't mention it, you were here, you're witnesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3404	Don't walk away from the debate, we're discussing your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3405	So it has nothing to do with the minister of justice, and if he's the one who announced... You still do some things as far as I know in the news from the means of information... In the context of justice... I don't think this is an accident. This is not a printing error.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3406	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3407	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the media is considered a political theory on the fourth branch of power. You can't do that when a national MP intervenes over something that happened in the congregation and what's been forged in the media in such a way that you react. You've completely adopted that branch of government, completely monopolised. You can lie and slander until you're willing to launch anything you can think of, fairy tales all over the place. (From O.R.: theme. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3408	Mr. Seselj, please focus.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3409	I'm focused.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3410	You can rent in the media or if they find it interesting they will invite you, so you will give your opinion, and now it means only the debate on the amendment submitted by your MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3411	Why are you so impatient?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3412	I'm not impatient, but we can't waste any time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3413	Well, you're wasting your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3414	When it's not about the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3415	Why don't you cancel the assembly, then you won't waste your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3416	If we've ruined 10 years, now every minute is precious to us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3417	Who's worth the time?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3418	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3419	He's valuable to you every minute, because you don't have many minutes left. [[Applause radically.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3420	Let us return to the subject of the agenda, therefore, amendment to Article 28.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3421	I've been talking on the subject all along and don't interrupt me, because I'm much better at this stuff than you are. Even if I turn off the subject, I guarantee you're in no condition to notice. [[Laughter]] Article 28 in this law could not remain, because it is in collegiate with one of the previous members who speaks of profits. This is Article 16. That's where the 14% tax on profits is foreseen. The income from agriculture and forestry is projected to be 20% here. It doesn't make any sense. Why would the rate of income tax on agriculture and forestry be 6% higher than the rate of taxes on other earnings. That would have to be explained by the minister, not so easily to go over the numbers, because you're not interested in numbers. Especially if we know what it means to make income in forestry. It takes at least 20 years to cultivate the forest, for certain species, the oak forest takes 50 years to exploit it. I'm not talking about noise right now, so I don't hurt some people here, I don't want to talk about the beech forest. Then don't insist. Also, when it comes to income from agriculture, it is not so simple and easy to make income in agriculture, and it is not any easier than to make income in other sectors of the economy. Therefore, agriculture should be equated with industry, with so-called small economy, service activities and the like. Someone mentioned Covic, but Covic has nothing to do with this amendment and this point. He'll be with another amendment. The DOS itself reminds me of Covic. They thought I forgot about Covic, and I didn't. Don't worry about Covic. You'd better get serious, if we, until it's too late, were to make an amendment to the law. [[Zagor in O.R. - prime. stenographs]] You can't explain to anyone why the income from agriculture at a rate higher than 6% is taxed against other earnings.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3422	Thank you. Anyone else answer for a word? (Niko) I am putting Peter Jojic's amendment to the vote. Please plead. For 56 MPs, against 116, abstentions 2, not voted 26, a total of 200 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 28. The amendment was submitted by the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have not accepted the amendment. He has the word Gordan Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3423	Dear People's MPs, Madam Chairman, I am really embarrassed to remind you more of the Serbian rules. Looks like you need to get back to some lower grade primary school. But you're really putting us in an awkward position to consider ourselves the wives of some MPs. I'm not the wife of an MP, though. I am an apostle, so call me that. I have submitted an amendment to Article 28 of this Law, believing that the rate of income tax on agriculture should be separated from the rate of tax on forestry, but that, in any case, one and the other should be reduced, or the rate of income from agriculture should be 10% and the revenues from forestry 15%. For what? First of all, because agriculture requires much more engagement, greater investment in both agrotechnical measures and investments in machinery, rather than forestry. That's why I sought some passivity, that different taxes on agriculture and forestry, pleading, above all, that this 20% rate for agriculture is too high to bear in mind what President Seselj said earlier -- that the income tax is 14%. (Louds from the O.R.: What president? Whose president? Well, he'll be president. Take it easy. Given the great difficulties agriculture has been facing in recent years, I think, gentlemen, that you have forgotten the sanctions and that agricultural production has borne the greatest burden of sanctions in the last ten years. Agricultural producers participate in total agriculture with as much as 87%. The state didn't find any way to help the agricultural producer, just looking to get as much out of it as possible. This way, we will completely destroy agriculture and our peasant. What is the economic strength of our farmers, no one asks. I was amazed by what the government said about my amendment. She didn't accept it. Why? She said: the amendment is not accepted because there is no basis for taxing incomes from agriculture and revenues from forestry at different rates. It would be the same if we said that there is no reason to tax agriculture with special rates of tax on profit or income tax. The reason is nothing. When it comes to amendments, the only reasons apply to them are the amendments submitted yesterday by DOS MPs (i.e. yesterday I have commented on these amendments), what all should be considered as income from self-activities, and the government says: these amendments should be accepted, assessed as justified, because they provide a basis for a wider coverage of income generated by carrying out an independent income tax activity on that basis. So it's just important to take as much as possible. Then he has a basis. When a reduction is required, there is no basis to accept the amendment and to be included in the law. That's the position of this government. Don't forget, gentlemen, you know who brought you to power, you know who went out with you on October 5th to the streets, that's mostly intelligence, and you know who's gonna take you out of power. It's this hook and hook you want to take your skin off your back.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3424	Anyone else answer for a word about this amendment? (Nico) I am putting the proposed amendment to the vote. For 56 MPs, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 26, with 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Pelevic, Djordje Mamula and Stevan Kesejic submitted the amendment to article 28 in the same text. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee has assessed that this amendment is legally possible. Is any of the amendment's proposed answer a word? He has the word National MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3425	Dear ladies and gentlemen, my amendment refers to the need to equalise the income tax of citizens for agricultural producers as well as for those who work in industry and for those who receive a profit of 14%. I see no reason for the government to suggest that with 20% of the income tax on citizens, farmers are taxed. Just remember that for the last 10 years, we've really lived on agriculture, at least for a great deal. We've been milking agriculture all this time until we've brought her to this state that's very difficult and very miserable. The attitude towards agriculture has also been shown by previous authorities, but it is obvious that the legal project also shows new authorities in a not-so-good way. That's why I suggested that the tax rate be reduced and that it be 14% as well as the income on the income tax of citizens relating to earnings. The attitude of the new government towards agriculture and the peasants in general shows today's lack of a minister for agriculture, Mr. Dragan Veselinov. That is why the Serbian Unity Party has sought and sought the shift of the Minister of Agriculture to whom it is certainly much more important to arrange the Vojvodina and to seek judicial, executive and legislative authority for Vojvodina, i.e. An attribute of statehood, more important than taking care of their business. The minister of agriculture has promised farmers much in the campaign and now that he is a minister. However, he fulfilled little. The peasants wonder why it's such a high price of mineral fertilizer, why it's gone, why it's a high price of seed, why it's a high price of oil, when we get oil and diesel from donations, from Italy, from gratis, and we sell it to farmers at 24 dinars. The minister promised that agricultural producers would have 40 liters per hectare. They get at pumps mostly 20 liters. Why does this government treat agriculture and agricultural producers so badly? That's all the reasons why we're looking for the replacement of Mr. Dragan Vesenov's Minister of Agriculture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3426	The People's Messenger George Mamul also answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3427	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, this is the way article 28 has no constitutional basis because there is a difference between the citizens who work in agriculture and those who work in the industry and the state sector. So I don't see at all why there's a difference, there's no reason for the law. You know, what's not based on facts can't be challenged by facts. On the other hand, nursing households prevail in the agricultural sector. Instead of encouraging farming, we put them in a position to pay 20%. That's why I invite you to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3428	Thank you. Here you are, MP Stevan Kesejić as the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 28 to the same member you have heard of the previous Members of Parliament. However, I will present some new elements. Namely, the government of the Serbian Repulbike, the DOS leaders in the pre-election campaign, promised farmers and agriculture a much better and faster revitalisation and villages and agriculture. It is on these messages that citizens, and above all the workers in agriculture, have defined themselves as a change of government expecting that finally there will now be a new DOS government allowing them to live off their incomes from agriculture. However, however more DOS power was strengthened, in the last few months, five or six months, the peasants were more and more tightened by the noose around their necks. Especially because the peasant puts himself not only in an unequal position but instead of fraud and lies that he has survived and experienced from DOS's new government, he is now trying to steal. He wants to steal himself in such a way that he will be in an unequal position with other workers in other industries. This particularly bothers the fact that there are special working conditions in agriculture that are seasonal, and incomes are thus seasonal character. There is also a major risk in agricultural production, in forestry, which is in no way an adequate reward from the government of the Republic of Serbia, proposing an even more unequal situation with an increase in the rate of income tax on agriculture and forestry. Also, it's very important here to say that the farmer repromaterials, fertilizers, fuel, spare parts, mostly provides himself. Very little of it has been done by the government despite great promises. Of those four million dollars from Japan, the Minister of Agriculture isn't here to tell us if someone stole that money, if someone manipulated it with that money, so they left for some other purpose. Everything here is important to know when we pass the law, when we adopt income tax on citizens, especially when we tax on citizens who carry a state on their hunchbacks. That's why it won't matter if the DOS majority today adopt a law on income tax on citizens, as the Government has suggested, to be in an unequal position, to be deprived of 6% more of the other citizens who work in other economic branches, and therefore I think that, here's a chance to show your concern to citizens who have worked in this branch of economy, and you also have a chance to show that other person if you don't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3430	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3431	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, it seems to me that we are too often entering the controversy which, on the one hand, aims to present this government to a government that doesn't care about agriculture, and on the other hand, it is for the purpose of being represented by DOS representatives by a government that for the first time begins to take care of agriculture systemically. During the last session, we had the opportunity to hear the argument of the former government's representative on the question - which is why they did not take down the tax on the sales of fertilisers, or on the marketing of agricultural machinery, on the transport of seeds and fruit material, or for which reason they did not take the tax off of livestock food. Why didn't the peasants get a six-month pension offer? As for Article 28, you must make the difference between income tax and salary tax, i.e. income. All independent activities are even and agricultural producers are also on the same status. There's no discrimination. Besides, we haven't changed this rate. It's the same rate as the previous authorities prescribed and what we're trying to do is put in order, so there aren't any of those characteristic spills and malicious interpretations of the law. So I'm just asking you to use the facts and in this way you're not trying to distort that kind of agrarian policy that this government is running again. As for the issue of trust of the Minister of Agriculture, it is put in the way they have done it, for example, SRS MPs in written form and with a request to put that agenda item at the session of one of the next meetings and we will be pleased to discuss the effects of Mr. Vesenov's agricultural policy and the government itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3432	There's a word from Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3433	I'd just like to point out that if we look at the rates proposed here, they're even. So that's the principle of fairness and neutrality of the tax policy that was proposed here, which was in the previous law, that is, the previous versions of this law. As we have seen, it is already in the first application of this sales tax the right way. It would be very bad at this point, when we go into a much simpler system, the tax system, and that expects us to do all the economics, agriculture, citizens, now to enter some complications and some different rates in what is well received today. I can say we've had a lot of contact with both agricultural representatives and farmers, and this isn't one of their main problems today. Because when you look at what the basics of that tax are, it's a catastrian income, which has not been re-valorized for five years. We haven't revolved him this year either. When you look at what these amounts are, you'll see that it's actually a marginal burden on our agriculture, certainly much smaller than its share in economic life, so that's not a big problem today, and it would be very bad, even if I were to say it was fatal, if we were going to choke this tax system of ours, which we're finally putting into order by trying, I'd say in some demagogue way, to solve a problem that, right now, is not the biggest problem of agriculture. If we're talking about agriculture, I can tell you about the first reactions on the ground, of course, there's not enough money anywhere, not even in agriculture, but the agrarian budget that still provided 5.1 billion dinars, which is actually bigger than it was last year, and if we look at what happened in traffic tax, in line with the sixth EU directive, we see that there are not only artificial manure and plant security, which was previously taxed by 9%, and now it's been released, but we also have food for cattle. Today we have a very good base, not only that agriculture is going back, but that we are finally starting to rebuild our livestock fund. To conclude, for agriculture in this budget and this tax package is quite done, not sufficiently, as in any segment of our society, but the first reactions it has are positive. As for this tax, I don't think it would be appropriate at this point to change something where there's no big problem. There were no negative reactions, no major demands for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3434	Mr. Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that there has been no revaluation of cadastrian incomes from agriculture over the past five years, and that was one way to at least partially help peasants during the previous very difficult period. What Mr Jovanovic was saying is simply not true, because the SRS was constantly pushing for the abolition of both taxes and customs duties for artificial fertilizer, and for the abolition of compulsory pension insurance for farmers. When that law was passed, it was somewhere in 1991/1992. in the year, Tomislav Panajotovic was in the assembly at the time, was also Lune Mihailovic, we voted against. There's a state that's entered into a "blind hose" and it's forced on the peasants, and it's unable to meet the obligations that come out of it. However, this is only about tax and tax rates. When income is taxed from agriculture by 20%, there is no explanation - why it is 6% higher than citizens' income. I don't know why you got into a termological income and income distinction here at all. What can be income from agriculture, and what is not a classic profit, or income, it can be when a farmer gives his country in rent, or his forest, or some other means of production. But you know that rent is also very low and that peasants, who own their country, their forest, or other that belongs to agricultural land, can sometimes be a lake, can be a pond, anything else, of that rent barely make up the end of it. It's not something a man can make enormous wealth on. And what Mr. Mamula mentioned, it was a good observation to him, although we did not reach that member of the law, Article 38, when it comes to self-activities taxes, where a 20% rate is also foreseen, there is no reason not to accept a 14% rate, unique to all. The minister says there's been no revaluation, but we know him, and we know this government, we know that immediately after this bill's passed, all the villagers can jump off the revaluation. Where's the guarantee he won't come? The guarantee is in your good faith. It shouldn't be based on good faith. This is where Mr. Mamula mentioned the question of the unconstitutional nature of one of the provisions. The unconstitutional would be both, and the one who treats independent actions, and the one who treats agriculture, because people who deal with different professions are not in the same position in front of the state, in front of the laws, but the problem is that we don't have a Constitutional Court right now. How do you dispute all these laws now? One important institution of the system does not function, the President of the Republic does not perform his duty, does not propose judges. Well, I suggest that this National Assembly announces to the public that the President of the Republic is unable to carry out his duties, so that Mr. Marcianin, in accordance with the Constitution, can take over that function, and propose to us at the next session of the new Constitutional Court. The President of the Republic may both be provisionally and permanently declared disabled or incompetent. I'm not going into it, you declare it temporary, you declare it permanent, but if he doesn't propose the judges of the Constitutional Court, it's someone else's. If he won't, then he can't, he's not trying to tell the National Assembly, the people and the state. That's not expected of the president. It's about this subject, you who don't know anything, you'd better not be in my word. Therefore, in order for all these laws to be regular, there must be a possibility of their dispute before the Constitutional Court. That's what lawyers should understand. If the president is unable to propose, he is temporarily or permanently prevented, Parliament's President should take office, for a certain time, as prescribed by the Constitution, and that I propose the judges of the Constitutional Court to this parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3436	There's a word Mr. Dragan the Martian. [[right on line]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3437	Since this issue has been mentioned repeatedly in the absence of a Constitutional Court, the absence of a proposal by the President of the Republic, just to inform you, and then we no longer use this speaker, that consultations are under way, that the procedure has been initiated and that a proposal for the composition of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia will be put in place before this assembly. He has the word Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3439	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Minister Djelic has tried to bring down my amendment and amendment to my colleagues, which is identical to my amendment. He tried to deny everything we asked for in the amendment, and we only asked for the tax rate, or the tax that cuts off the farmer, the farmer, to be equal to the other taxes, to make that tax rate 14%, and not 20%. Minister Djelic failed to explain behind this speaker - at what privileged position a farmer is, that his tax rate would be much higher than the tax rate of those living on their earnings. He also called it demagogy. Absolutely no demagogy. I understand the Honorable Mr. Minister, who here asks that the law not be changed and that the tax system is not stifled, as he said. Of course, he represents his point of view, but I'm quite sure that this speaker was unable to explain - why the tax rate for farmers is 20% and for the other 14%? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3440	The word has Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3441	When we look at the load, it must be looked at in general, comprehensively. It is not enough to look at only one item and one percentage. When you look at the percent of 20%, and you see how much the burden is for peasants, then you see that it's for one dinar of about 40 pairs. So, the burden on those incomes that peasants have are on the hundred, forty, while, with this rate of 14% on earnings, when you add other rates of contribution, you come to today, according to this calculation, which is net pay at about 100 to 102. So, farmers today are less burdened than those who have profits in businesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3442	If no one answers the word anymore, I am putting the amendment of Borislav Pelevic, Djorđa Mamula and Stevan Kesejić to the vote. For 87, against 91, with 5 abstentions, he did not vote 21, 204 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The question is, though, what if we took these cards out? On the 28th amendment in the same text, the MPs Bozidar Vucurovic and Bozidar Vujic submitted. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3443	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, considering it to be much more difficult to achieve income in agriculture than in other activities, I suggested that the 20% rate be replaced by a 12% rate, although even 14% is not bad at all. The fact that Mr. Minister has now explained that the total grip on agriculture is currently less, it is currently less, but it only depends on the government's goodwill, whether it increases the height tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, revolving the cadastrian income, and then making the position of farmers much more unfavourable. This option received a large number of votes in the country, among other things, which swore to the development of agriculture, and thanks to the ballads on the development of agriculture. After that, from the election of the agriculture minister to the taxation of villages and peasants, everything is a total disaster. Mr. President, before voting under this amendment, I would ask you to order the assembly services to pick up the cards, which are 21 for MPs who are not in the Assembly, and are registered, because this may affect the outcome of the vote under this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3444	I ask the service to examine, ask the MP to intervene, we will continue... To see if the other cards were in places where the MPs left the O.R. Well, on your proposal, it's already reduced to... I ask that the Service of the Assembly do so regularly, during the session, so that we may have a clean situation. Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3445	We've had sanctions in this country for ten years. With the arrival of "Gauliter" on the authority and his dikes, the sanctions begin to come off. The dark people expect - it'll be better, here comes a bill like this. I'd like to propose that we download from 20% to 12%. It is a very interesting argument given by the government, rejecting other amendments to this article. The income tax on agriculture and forestry, for the agricultural producer, does not constitute a major burden. It's just that they wrote that it's not a burden. Someone would say it's a cynical sentence, but I won't say it's cynical. I'll say that's a sentence made up by an expert, only an expert can make income on agriculture and forestry to tax 20% and income by 14%. And that, the same farm that, under the conditions of our country's sanctions, suffered the greatest burden, which had a fundamental purpose, which she did. She did everything she could on the biological preservation of our population. We pay her back by taxing and saying it won't be a big burden. If that's what Minister Vesenov was involved in, I'm not surprised, because he's a minister for everything, just not for agriculture. For separation, anyway, it is. If it were the Minister of Agriculture, it would make agriculture more helpful, that now, when these sanctions are coming down, when you enter the root economic reforms and radically changing fiscal policy, you help agriculture to stand on healthy feet and move forward. You'd help with that reduction if farmers invested in seed goods, oil, although it's almost too late for sowing, except for corn, you'd help them with extra money that they wouldn't spend on these taxes, but to get artificial fertilizer. What's there? Our Paris student doesn't understand our agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture has other obligations. Just to remind you, the Minister of Agriculture has promised loans at a single rally. Then he choked, and someone looked at him, maybe even sobered him up, so now he's starting to promise to import machinery up to the age of six. If you know that our farmers use tractors annually for up to 300 hours, and some agricultural cooperatives up to 700 hours, if you know that in the West, the percentage of the use of the machinery is going to be up to 2,000 hours, with this kind of stupidity brought out by Minister Vesenov, we're going to be importing old iron.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3446	Please focus on the amendment you have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3447	It's this expert government that has to fall.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3448	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3449	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by the same law, we are already discussing a number of amendments. The amendments differ on the percentage of the 20% reduction, and the minister, when he responds, avoids making a statement on the essence. He says the income tax has been low so far. It's true, and everyone in this country knows it. He was low because he hasn't been re-valorized in years. This law is no guarantee that you won't be reviving on Monday. There's no guarantee. Your word cannot be a guarantee to you once a late flight from Paris and a waste of guarantees. Secondly, don't take too much of Dejan Popovic's advice because he has so far ruined the Union of Communists and the Socialist Party with his tax concepts. Put a little effort here to understand the essence. Secondly, Mr. Minister, think about it a little bit, this time something very positive happened in this assembly, this amendment was almost voted, four votes were missing. What it means is that there are serious people in the DOS, both serious people, professional, competent, they don't know the exact number because some people are afraid to be exposed from such positions, but that you could easily fall into this law if you can't get past this amendment. Because each of these MPs should think about how they will explain their voice today in parliament. Mr. Minister, take care, if you are too categorically insisting on missed legal projects, and if you manage the advice of your incompetent deputy Dejan Popovic, it is not far from the day that you fall on such legal projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3450	I'd like to give a few facts again, since it's not the first time he's tried to bring some fear and some misunderstanding into our people. As far as the cadastrian income is concerned, it was determined on the 31st of the previous year, and at that level we stopped. So, neither this year nor next year, given the situation in agriculture, we intend to re-evaluate it. So, even if we wanted to, we can't change the cadastrian income this year, and when there's a vote for the 2002 budget, we'll look at the entire tax system again and you'll see that we won't change anything next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3451	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for days we have listened to insults, slanders, lies, accusations made at the expense of the Government of Serbia, at the expense of certain ministers, and since it is the pronoun of this law, which is on the agenda of Mr Djelic, and at the expense of Mr Djelic, and constantly laminates on the fate of the citizens of this country, humanism, social justice as if we are living in a wonder country other than the SSJ, which is the opposition party that did not participate in the previous government, and the other two parties that were in the previous government have also led the country to this state and this sadness and sadness that Serbia is in today. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, any democratic country would be happy and pleased to find such a minister as Mr Djelic, such an expert in the world's voice in her government. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Djelic came to Serbia exclusively for patriotic reasons. [[Applause]] So, he left a job that was paid hundreds of times better to try to squeeze something out of this "dry drab" in which you destroyed Serbia as piranhas. When it comes to income, income tax, income, ladies and gentlemen, here's the story of income in today's Weekly Telegraph. Mrs. Mira Markovic remained in charge of building a house in Pozarevc 2,200,000 marks. Here's your contract, signatures, stamps, bills. It's a story of income and income tax. Apparently, the previous government did not purchase a car in 1998, 1999 and 2000, and here are the car purchase accounts in 1998, 1999 and 2000. Ladies and gentlemen, these are exclusively foreign cars. No car is domestic. That's 24 cars. Therefore, we will also have interesting information to disclose to the public. So don't worry about humanism and social justice. The one who kept saying about humanism and social justice has no MPs in this assembly, and many parties will soon go that way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3452	Mr. President, honourable fellow MPs, members of the government, I am advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 98, which says "the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda". He looks forward to the versatility of certain ministers, but I don't think Mr. Djelic should be defended. Mr Djelic himself has shown himself to be an expert, to be able to speak and defend himself. The minister who spoke earlier spoke about everything he was not supposed to say, and we will discuss his ability and versatility under the last item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3453	For the hundredth time, I accept the remark that I do not warn speakers when they are not holding the agenda, but occasionally I do not know what is on the agenda, because you are challenging each other, that the Assembly is slowly turning into pre-election rural rallys and stands. Both sides stick to the agenda and I'll be able to intervene. Like this, everyone intervenes from the opposite side. Replica, Dr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3454	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been asking Prime Minister Vladan Batic for days to announce who bought the 24th Audi, who signed it. I guarantee that it was never in the Serbian government and that there was no signature and if there was no signature, it couldn't have been a regular purchase. Let him say those names, which hesitates. Who is Minister Batic hiding? Why don't you tell me who bought it, who wrote it. Maybe it's from the time of Nebojka Covic. Don't talk about it again without mentioning names. Secondly, Mr. Batic here can wave the papers, and the other MPs you'll never see, Mr. President. Maybe this is true what Batic showed from the papers, I don't know, but in the same number, I'm accused of stealing 50 million marks. Batic knows that's not true. Let him swear it if he thinks it's true and one brand of it. Therefore, gentlemen of course there are many thieves in the structure of the former government, as there are many thieves and in the structure of the new government, but don't forget one thing. Most of the thieves in the structure of the last government have already fled to your ranks. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3455	If you're done with the replicas, Mr. Ivkovic has come forward for his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3456	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I know that there is a tax on citizens' income, as well as those who have forgotten to remind themselves of that, but only to get involved briefly in the previous discussion. Indeed, it is true that the Serbian government made a decision in 1998 that only domestic vehicles can be purchased and are, in principle, from the flag of Kragujevac taken "flordide". To me, it's a surprise what Minsitar Batic said now, because we really only took "florides" and nothing more. The income tax of citizens is a subject and respecting... I know you're from the Democratic Party, but show some democracy at work. I don't think you ever get a single comment from a socialist, but we respect you while you're at this pay phone. The income tax is a subject and the subject is essentially whether farmers pay 14% like all other workers or 20%. Before you vote on this amendment, especially since only a few votes have been rejected, which is similar to this amendment, I would ask you to calculate. It should pay for pension insurance of 4,662 dinars per household head plus the difference for last year of 800 dinars and that's almost 5,500 dinars per household head. If the average rural household has four members, 22,000 dinars should be paid annually if the rate is 20%, not 14%. If you add that to the health insurance of 2,000 dinars, then the household should pay an average of 24,000 dinars, if there is a 20% rate left. In doing so, it remains in force by law forcing the rural household to pay pension and health insurance. We've proposed a bill and yesterday he went into a procedure where we go on a voluntary basis, and I suggest that the Prime Minister accept this amendment to lower the burdens and make it 14% for a working man in both the country and the factory.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3457	The word has Minister Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3458	We just have to say that there's not a single domestic vehicle purchased here. It's 24 foreign production vehicles: "audi A6", "audi A6", "audi A6", "audi A6", "audi A3", "audi A6", "fiat uno", "fiat marea", "fiat chaina", "accia damage", "fiat uno", "fiat uno", "fiat uno", "optavia", "hyundai and sonata", "hundai and sonata damage", "hjundai", "hyundai and sonata", "fiat felicia damage", "damage van", "aud A6, 2, 4", "aud A6, 2, 4". You want the license plate numbers? As far as names are concerned, we can by names, May 24, 2000 -- a memo from the Serbian Radical Party's Executive Board to the Serbian Government. I predict what you're going to ask Mr. Seselj and that's why I don't say everything right now. That's why it's better if you don't ask anything. So here's what the Serbian Radical Party said that it cared about social justice, humanism, about the fate of Serbian citizens. It asks the Serbian government based on Zivka Knezevic's talks, which is the famous Cica Knezevic, the secretary of the government and Dragan Todorovic, sends vehicle data. Then they send the government of the Republic of Serbia a list of four vehicles of the Serbian Radical Party to the Serbian government, here we have, the "Yugo Tempo" BG-446-536, "Yugo-Tempo", "Yugo Tempo", "Yugo florida". Jugopetrol gas station, Jove Marinovic for the head of the station and then the autoservisal manager at the Republic Authority's Joint Affairs Office, Nemanja 22-26 asks the government of the Republic of Serbia to issue petrol stamps for the above mentioned vehicles on the same principle as for other vehicles. Then comes the memo on how to pour that fuel.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3459	I would ask you, by giving Mr. Seselj the right to a replica, to end this as much as possible as possible to the public prosecutor's office, rather than to the National Assembly, to end this and to return to discussing the laws that are before us. Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3460	Your authority is getting funnier. First, Vladan Batic talks about 24 audiences allegedly bought by the Serbian government, which is not true and I am again saying that it is not true. He never announced the names, to announce who bought those vehicles, who was the responsible man who bought the vehicles, and then because he won't say that, then he brings out other papers that the Serbian Radical Party asked for four vehicles to be fueled. Be careful what relationships they are, what they were. I'm telling you that vehicles have never been purchased, by the government of Serbia, but we used to have to use party vehicles for government purposes, because the government didn't have enough vehicles. Laugh. There are people here who were ministers in the past. Branislav Ivkovic was a minister. For months, Dragan Todorovic came to his private Trabant in the Serbian government. You can laugh for free, but I hope you haven't fired your government employees yet. There's a staff out there who's been watching it. All laughed at Dragan Todorovic for driving as deputy prime minister by private "trabant". They asked the government to make an exception and buy a car. The request came to the board I chaired and we refused. No Audi has been bought, but you are such people. You believe, since you have a monopoly on all the media, because you have absolute authority, that you can rule lies. You keep carrying lies and slanders, you launch them in huge quantities. You're burying the public with lies. Minister Batic can say who bought it 24 "audia" in the Serbian government. Different sides of the car, it doesn't matter who they are. The government has never made a decision to buy a foreign vehicle and has no decision with my signature.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3461	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3462	Dear Members of the People, at least three violations of the Rules of Procedure have been done here. Gentlemen, please, if we can hear each other, in the interest of working on this assembly. They listen to you and look at you. Feel free to act like one. President, you've done three injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First, I asked for word from the Rules of Procedure, which is given immediately. You noticed that. Secondly, you do not determine order when it is thrown aside and you do not warn MPs who are inappropriately laughing at what they want to do to make this session feel the way the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia deserves. We were elected here by the citizens of this country to conduct a debate on the agenda of this assembly. Yesterday, when we tried to change the agenda due to the lack of a minister, you yourself said there could be no change of agenda at the assembly session. Please warn the government's representatives to amend the agenda and the agenda proposal on a timely basis without having to perform it during the session. Please return this assembly to work on the agenda, which was established at this session the other day, or yesterday. I don't know what day this is anymore. We started discussing this law yesterday. In principle we adopted it today, we're working on the amendments today. Today's decision has been made to extend our work in half an hour, because of those who don't want to be in this room in time. Therefore, we work on the punishment of those who are here and who listen and participate. I ask you to return to the agenda and use your powers as President of the Assembly, and if you are interested, Article 95, Rule 98 and some other members of this Rules of Procedure have been injured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3463	The entire Rules of Procedure has been injured, but I am the president or the chairman, I am not a teacher and I cannot be a teacher. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment, and I bet none of you even know what the amendment is about, so I'll repeat that this is about the amendment of the People's MPs Bozidar Vukurovic and Bozidar Vujic to the 28th Law. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 62, against 124, the two abstentions, did not vote 13, a total of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the MP want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3464	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think the minister is right about one thing. I suggested that the agricultural tax rate be 10%. However, it is essential that you get the check, how much to pay the tax. The rate of taxes on agriculture is not high, but everything else is big. In the water industry, the contribution increased to 160%, the total tax for farmers reaching from 95 to 115%. What does that mean? If one of the farmers had a tax of 4,000 dinars, this year they will pay a tax of 8 - 9,000 dinars. So, the aggregate tax is big. That's why I suggested that the tax rate be lower, so that the aggregate tax would be lower.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3465	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to appeal to the Minister of Finance again to take this issue more seriously. I know he was very observant when it came to livestock food, as best man Zoran Djindjic is the largest Serbian food producer and owner of the Surcin company Krmivoproduct. You see, Minister, these may be the manners you tend to learn in your long-standing practice of experts, long practice, to make those of whom you benefit. You see another thing that happened recently. Until before the elections, the director of the work unit at the PKK in Surcin was Milos Bulgaria. Surchin sold the land under very unfavourable conditions. The PKK has sued "Krmivoproduk", and after the election, the PKK's CEO became the same Milos Bulgaria. It's your concern about agriculture, about peasants. Furthermore, a certain Misa Pavlovic, for the veterinary sector, went from the company "Krmivoproduct" to the assistant minister of agriculture. (President: Mr. Seselj, we are not discussing staff issues. ) He came from "The Feeder", and there he held the horsergel Dragoljub Markovic, the owner of "The Feeder". Furthermore, Dragoljub Markovic of the "Small Product" now has opportunities, thanks to the Serbian government, to do the price of eggs, so he has ranks like before the Dafiment Bank. What's the point? To destroy all egg manufacturers, to keep him as a monopoliest. You know how such attempts in France are prevented. But the government doesn't go in the direction of preventing the monopoly. You also set up monopoly regulations that are anti-constitutional, and you don't need a Constitutional Court to question them. Furthermore, Carnex's pig factory in Surcin, which this company was dealing with, got very bad food for pigs. (President: Mr. Seselj, for the second time I warn you to stick to the agenda. I'm talking about your agricultural policy, from the aspect of the Income Tax Act, because agriculture is threatened by your behaviour, and this one concrete example proves that your authority is prone to mafia affairs. The same Dragoljub Markovic is raising a huge house for Zoran Djindjic in Banovci. That's your tax policy, that's your economic policy, that's your financial policy. That's the kind of authority you are. Of course, I understand that this is difficult to get into your ears, but it will come in, slowly. On all your lies, we're just gonna go with the bare facts, and we're gonna see who's gonna make it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3467	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 98, Article 100 and Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia obliges all participants in the work of the Assembly, perhaps a little more binding on MPs, and perhaps most binding on those MPs who have a 10-year internship in this assembly. The Rules of Procedure say in Article 98, "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda." Item 3: "At the time of speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, no discard is allowed." Article 100: "The President of the National Assembly takes care of the session of the National Assembly." Article 104: "If the president of the National Assembly cannot maintain order on a regular basis at the session, he will set a break in the time needed to establish order."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3468	So, in this case, I accept that the Rules of Procedure have been broken, but again I draw your attention that in this assembly, with the conduct of the MPs, it is impossible to apply the Rules of Procedure, consistently as it is written in it. I received a remark when Minister Batic spoke. The remark was justified. Now I'm getting a remark from you when Mr. Seselj spoke. The remark is absolutely justified, but you know how, I'm afraid this session wouldn't have a sequel. Let's try to slow down at the sessions to get things in order, stick to the agenda and discuss the laws. Otherwise, you're absolutely right. I don't know what more of those remarks to answer. Mr. Jovanovic picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3469	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just like to clarify some of the ambiguities that I recognize on the basis of the proposed amendments. In fact, the cadastrian income for first-class land is 280 dinars per hectare, the tax on which is 20%, which means 56 dinars, accounts for 17% of the average net wage, and that practically means 340 dinars. So much for the difference that comes in terms of agriculture. As far as, of course, and those topics I can't get around, given the harsh untrues, Mr. Seselj in the state where you ruled it was a miracle to be a successful businessman. The person you mentioned is a successful businessman, rarely successful, and since you've tied him to certain criminal acts, I suggest we form a committee of inquiry that will determine the validity of the facts that you've brought here. If you think we're afraid of it, we're at your disposal in advance. By premonitioning what the conclusions of the survey committee would be, because Zoran Djindjic did not buy the Serbian government a house or apartment as vice president of your party to Mr Nikolic, but by means of his own resources he made that house, as he himself provided his own apartment. They did not handle their narrow personal issues and problems by means of this nation. Mr. Seselj, as president of the Zemun municipality, you are directly responsible for the racketeering of numerous successful enterprises in that municipality, you have tried to recalibrate and mention the company. In this you failed, and there lies the source of animosity, just in such a knowledge. However, we are at your disposal, let us form a survey committee, as well as in the case of Mr Milosevic, let us examine these facts, as we will examine many other facts. Among other things, the fact of the 180 square squares of Mr. Nikolic, 180 square squares of Mr. Vukic, about 24 cars your government bought, and you don't know right now. You only know what's in your favor. You're also responsible because you don't know anything. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3470	Ladies and gentlemen, here's a great opportunity to agree on the authority and opposition in the National Assembly, to form a survey committee on the same principle on which we formed a survey board for the Ibar Highway. Half DOS, half the opposition within the survey board. That's how we formed it for the Ibar highway, so let's form it for this case. Where did Djindjic get the money, what did he make for these ten years to raise the house. You've admitted, it's an honor to you, that he raises the house and this magnificent house in the Banovites. As far as the Zemun municipality is concerned, and this committee of inquiry. Let's see who we've been recalibrating. The Committee of Auditors on the same principle. Third, as for this Dragoljub Markovic, by 1992 he was selling eggs at the market. Then, with the help of the then government, whether Covic or anyone else helped him in 1992, 1993, I don't know, he got huge loans from Agrobank and inflation destroyed those loans, ruined Agrobanka, and he built his fortune in doing so. I hope now that you are preparing this tax code for those who have made enormously rich along with these benefits, that Dragoljub Markovic of the "Krmivoproduk", the godfather of your party, will be among the first to pay such taxes. No, I don't. You only think of some to tax, some not. That's the essence of your approach. The "Bird Product" has eaten Agrobank. Agrobank never stood on its feet again. Now Surčina is in charge of the drug product, and as many illegal objects as he has, why don't you examine it. We have been tolerant to everyone, and you are to bring down some poor people, to bring down the poor, and you are to leave the greatest of the rich. When you bring down the poor, you take down those rich people. Not to mention the Love of Angelkovic, whose palace I showed in front of the National Assembly this morning. Out of the O.R., what about Tom? )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3471	Unlike Zoran Djindjic, I have never earned enough to build a house as an MP or as a deputy prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. I think it was the biggest salary in Serbia at the time. You could live off those salaries. Now, from the government of the Republic of Serbia, I got an apartment of 178 square meters. Will you listen, then make a noise, or will you shout and not listen? [[growls]] The apartment is located in New Belgrade. At that time, I could get a 120-square apartment in downtown Belgrade and be worth three times as much as the one in New Belgrade. Then you'd say, it's okay. Now, since I'm standing in front of you and the cameras, I don't think it's immoral on my part at all, I don't think it's even punishable by law, and I think you can pass any law you want, and I'm going to comply with that law. Stan? You won't take anything away from me. Come to my door and take it away! He's talking to someone in the O.R. The apartment I got - you're brave here, in the O.R., but when we're out, you're all nice around me - the apartment I got from the Government of the Republic of Serbia was not paid. [[Laughter in O.R.]] The apartment was taken by compensation from the company "Energoproject" in the name of the contribution. That's what this firm owed. She would never have the money to pay for those contributions to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Do you think you're embarrassing me because I have an apartment? [[Sagar.]] You've gone through a hell of a lot. I'm not ashamed at all. I didn't steal anything from anyone. When we explore who has what, there is a flat behind me that I received from the Republic of Serbia. Then, Mr. Chad, we'll go among you who haven't had any income, and you have enormous assets. So I'm going to ask you where you got this property, so I'm going to ask you how much taxes you've paid every year for that property! Then we'll get a clean bill. I stand before you. I didn't get the apartment hiding, no one gave me the money to buy the apartment, for God's sake, on the market, but I got it from the government of the Republic of Serbia. Whichever of you, my dear children, and you are the loudest one here, turns 30 years of internship in this country, I want him to have an apartment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3472	He has the word National MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3473	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not 1945 where your coalition partners took private property. It's only about the moral dimensions of your government and you, the Serbian radicals, whose member you, Mr. Nikolic, are. Obviously, you're telling us that it's less immoral that the government didn't pay your apartment for money, but the Energy Project has been released from debt on contributions. Mr. Nikolic, the pensioners paid your 180 squares, not anywhere, Mr. Nikolic, but in an elite building in New Belgrade. Maybe it would've been an apartment in downtown Belgrade if there'd been so many squares. There are not many apartments in downtown Belgrade of 180 square meters. Trust me on this one. I was born in this town. I've lived in it for 30 years. Mr. Nikolic, that was at a time when many homeless people arrived at the threshold of this capital thanks to the policy you led. You can judge for yourself, when you see yourself in the mirror, how many humanityes there are in what you've done and how many of you have the right to go out in front of us with words that, among other things, you bring out today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3474	There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3475	I knew the day would come when even those who do not deserve to enter this hall would call out those who are far more worthy than they are. I can always look in the mirror. I can look into all people in Serbia. I'm going alone, Mr. Jovanovic. I went alone when I was in the Serbian government. And when I'm in opposition, I go alone. Sometimes a member of the party goes with me, unlike you who are surrounded by bodyguards. But, my child, I may be wrong to say "my child," my wife will be angry because this is how we would never raise our sons. We raised my sons much better - whenever you sit in someone else's jeep and whenever you sniff, remember that you accused a decent man. [[Applause]] You don't know what to do. I don't feel like I'm guilty of anything at all. I'd love to. . . (One Messenger: because you are immoral! Unmoral, perhaps, yes. I thought sometimes I'd do something that wasn't exactly moral. Don't call me here from this pay phone. I will never defend myself as hard as I could. I want some credits saved for the court. That's why I'm asking you to shut up about it, hand me over all my crime to the authorities, don't even go through the newspapers to call me, let the judge call me, let the police call me, let me see what I'm guilty of. I cannot allow at all, Cedomir Jovanovic, that you are calling me from this pay phone. You're not worth that much. Find someone as valuable as you, then call him. You don't deserve to stand in my shadow. I've done a lot in this Serbia. You should just do something. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3476	I put the amendments to the People's MP, Lazar Marjansky. Gentlemen, I beg you for some order and peace in the O.R. This isn't a boxing match, God's men. Do you know what this looks like when I look from here? I'm serious. It's really scary. Give me some peace in the O.R. For 55, against 118, there were no abstentions, no vote of 20, a total of 193 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been adopted. National MPs Miroljub Veljkovic, Tomislav Nikolic and Dragan Markovic submitted to the 28th amendment in the same text. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the amendment promoters want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3477	Dear People's MPs, the election seems to be close. As soon as the Cheddar fell into the fire like this, the election is very close. Dear People's MPs, there has been a widespread practice here, with us in Serbia, that politicians remember villages and peasants only before the elections. Normally, I don't count Mr. Zechariah Trnavčević. He's not here today. He made an immeasurable contribution to the development of villages and agricultural production through his already legendary show from the Tito era "Knowledge - Property". But that's already history. Let's get back to the present. In the pre-election campaign, DOS experts promised the peasants, along with this Tito expert, Zechariah, all sorts of things, they promised to provide a world price for their products, to liberalise the exports of all agricultural products, that fertilizer and seeds... (speaks from the hall: Theme! That's not the point. Well, what is this, if it's not a theme, aman, for nothing. They promised that fertilizers and seeds would be obtained, maltenes, without money, that they would simply swim in regressed oil, that villages would revitalise and open a perspective for young people on seluitd. In one word, they told us: vote for us, so you will live as German or Dutch farmers. Romanian and Bulgarian, however, did not mention. Mr. Pelevic wants the Minister of Agriculture's shift. I think we should think this through, because we shouldn't be changing such an expert so quickly. Just remember that fantastic idea of how to solve the problem of the lack of mineral fertilizer in this country! By the way, the peasants will be able to import the mineral fertilizer themselves. Here, the whole of Shumadi, the peasants scolded, behold, an MP from the Kings, my colleague, insulted how much they imported the fertilizer! A man like that should not be released quickly. Let's say it wasn't time for all the pre-election promises to be fulfilled. Let's give the government a little more time. Maybe Vesenov comes up with another brilliant idea, Mr. Pelevic. Mr. Minister, it doesn't matter the financial amount of this tax. So it absolutely doesn't matter that Chad, the financial expert couple of excellencies, tells us here that it's 20 dinars, 50 dinars per cadastrian income, etc. That absolutely doesn't matter. That's not the solution of this government. This is a solution from previous governments that did not increase this cadastrian income. It's the government's position that matters. So one clear message that we must give to the village and the peasants is that this government, that this parliament is with them. If we want the real revitalisation of the village, if we want the biological survival of this people, then we young must keep it in the country. How do you send them that message? The message should be sent to them by accepting this amendment, which is even more radical than the previous amendments. I suggest that the rate of income tax from agriculture and forestry be reduced from 20% to 10%. This will keep you part of your pre-election promises and certainly get the support of the peasants. I mean, gentlemen of the DOS MPs, that you won't gamble this chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3478	The word has been given by MP Dragan Markovic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3479	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would ask Minister Djelic to hear, to listen to a single household, a five-member family living in a village with five acres of land. We asked to cut the tax rate from 20% to 10%. I'll tell you what you need, Mr. Minister, but I'd like you to respond after my speech to sow grain on the surface of a hectare. What are expenditures - plowing, sauce, fertilizer, three 15s, grinding, seed, sowing, arrangements, protection from lem and weeds, vervain, baling and transport. Mr. Minister, I apologize if you follow me. This total basket of 30,900 dinars, if the farmer has five hectares of land and asks for someone else to do him a favor, on this day, or 30,900 expenditure times five hectares is 154,500 dinars. And, income, if the year is beretish, is four kilograms per hectare, times nine dinars, that's 36,000 dinars, times five hectares, that's 180,000 dinars. When 180,000 dinars, Mr. Minister, are taken away as income, transparently, as you say, from expenditure - 154,500 dinars, we get 25,500 dinars. In doing so, I would like to remind you that 154,500 dinars a peasant invests and waits nine months to recover all his money. Today, the money market in the banks is between 4% and 7%. I took that mean of 5%. When it's calculated, Mr. Minister, the peasant is at a great loss. And what are the obligations of a farmer who lives in the country today and has a family of five. Electricity, at an old price, 875 dinars. It's average electricity consumption for a five-member family. Telephone - a stable 350 dinar. The heat of 800 dinars. If that family has one child who goes to school for a transport ticket, he needs at least 800 dinars. Mobile phone - 200 dinars. The consumer basket is 12,000 dinars, Mr. Minister. When it's all gathered together, Mr. Minister, if you follow me, it's 15,225 dinars. When multiplied, Mr. Minister, at 12 months, that's 181,000 dinars. From which, Mr. Minister, one agricultural producer will live with five acres of land. And in doing so, Mr. Minister, I have not applied those tax and excise rates that you have burdened the peasants and which will be adopted these days. On a hunting rifle of 1,000 dinars, Mr. Minister. It's not a luxury, because it takes that peasant once a week to get into the woods and to forget the problems this government has imposed on him. Car registration tax, Mr. Minister, housing tax, Mr. Minister, and participation, Mr. Minister, if any of the family members get sick. The only solution, Mr. Minister, that he can survive this year is to sell 60 acres of land where the average price is 100 marks, so he'll get 6,000 marks, times 30, which is 180,000 dinars -- I've shown you this transparently, side of expenditure and side of income from the agricultural producer and his five-member family. Here you go, Mr. Minister, so explain to me according to your plan and the program from which the farmer will live in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3480	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3481	When I wrote an amendment to this member first, I wanted to bring this tax into line with the employee tax. To suggest it was 14% and it was close to adopting it. But then it occurred to me what are the consequences of the new tax, fiscal and monetary policy, both at the level of Yugoslavia and at the level of Serbia, will bring. What, unfortunately, I think will happen, which is mass layoff from work. Most of our workers came from the village. True, their children, even their grandchildren, were already born in the city. But, I'm counting, maybe we should try to accept them in the country. Not by force to bring them back to the country. Without the machinery, without the good house, you can't drive anyone away. But if we give them some benefits, if we make life in the country easier than life in the city, and that can be achieved, it can be done, maybe that social charge would be reduced in a few ways, quieted down. Maybe there wouldn't be a riot that, judging the situation now and expecting what's going to happen in three months, I really expect. So the peasant doesn't work 7 hours a day. I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. It's sometimes done before dawn, necessarily before sunrise, and sometimes until total darkness. Well, even when it's all dark, there's always work in the barn for a peasant who's been in the field all day. So you can't even compare profits from a normal working relationship with profits or income in the country. It's a lot harder to make land income. There's no sick leave. There's no factory hall that has to be heated up to 18 degrees in winter, and that's even air-conditioned in flight, exposed to atmospheres, sun, wind, rain, and I think if you're justifiably saying that so far the state hasn't been able for a variety of reasons to take care of the peasant, I think it's time for us all to start taking care of the peasant and not divide ourselves into power and opposition. It would be very good if, as you looked so closely at all the sources of funding of the state, if you saw the peasant life of Mr. Minister, and if you tried to convince the members of the government, and I see that they trust you enormously, they believe you to be the world's greatest expert, you don't have to convince them much, and you don't have to convince DOS MPs. Here, for the first time today, I've seen a group of DOS MPs who's been thinking about something in the bill of law passed by the government. So if you, Minister, would try to help the peasants, you might be remembered as the minister who brought good to Serbia. And if you use all your knowledge and experience gained by working with various world experts to find out what else you can get out of our pockets, or hidden somewhere under the straw, from our houses, then you'd better not have come. The peasants will make their own fields. They won't let it go. They won't park. They are ashamed of both parents and descendants, so that the field may be unworked. But there remains a bitter taste in your mouth, I think you deceived them -- not you ministers, you had no idea that you would come to Serbia, but DOS when it was being presented in the election, in the election campaign. You deceived them because the agrarian policy is dedicated to one segment of the DOS programme, and he was all talking about relief for peasants. Here, it may be a relief to them and that at least you haven't sharpened the conditions that they've been up to now, but I'm telling you, rural households are a senior, they can't fight even the weeds anymore, they can't even fight an old mechanism anymore, they can't fight a reduced market. The issue is with cattle diseases, how will they succeed in such a poor country to fight. I suggest you, we don't have to be peasant country, but we suggest you pay more attention to the peasants than you pay to the worker.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3482	The Minister, Mr Djelic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3483	If the previous speakers wanted to say that peasants were hard, they said what they knew. They didn't just say why it's so hard for peasants. They didn't say why they had been promised so many years, and every time it was that hope, and what was promised, failed, every time. And if you look at those calculations every day, we can see everything more precisely -- it's obvious that the village was one of those sources that sucked as much as possible. And these 10 years, no wonder, as far as they got out of them, they managed to stay where they were. After two years, however, we see that they have even begun to reduce the stock fund, which is one of the very alarming signs of where the village has arrived and where the low branches have fallen. Obviously, it's hard for them today and we can make all these calculations for the peasants, it must be a difficult situation, and we can make for all the citizens, unfortunately, of this country. With that, we can go on forever. If we look at, however, what has been done this year, I say, and we have the fact that we prove it, that it is the first step, certainly insufficient, in improving the standards and lives of our peasants. Let me mention, first of all, by moving to a unique rate of sales tax and harmonising with the sixth EU directive, which will allow us to move very quickly, such as some speakers a few days ago, or two weeks ago, said that we will be able to move very quickly to additional value tax, which is the only fair law and tax in this domain, and in 18 months, 24 months. And it will be good for peasants, and with this transition and harmonisation with the EU, we have freed from sales taxes and artificial fertilisers, and what should be protected by herbs and livestock. Not because of the individual, absolutely not, but because of the justified demand of this key segment of our society. And because it was our only way to ensure at one difficult moment that they finally start rebuilding that stock fund, and those first reactions we have from that field are very positive. The peasants very well understood what this is and they realized very well that this was the first, not enough anyway, but the first positive step towards restoring the village and the better situation of our peasant. And as for the Agrarian budget, to point out, the previous speaker spoke about the possible consequences of those diseases that plague Europe, is that ours? If there's one item in the budget that wasn't touched, it's the 850 million dinars that we've provided for veterinarians to provide all the things that we need to examine this cattle fund, and not tell stories, but to all know, and to our peasants, and to our citizens, where we are. And there, believe me, was not one minute of discussion. That money's secure. I would also like to point out that we have more than two billion dinars for milk premiums. Ask the people who make it, they're very happy, and you'll see, the supply and the price, the one that's going to be held today, and we can be proud of it, without talking about that money, certainly insufficient, but finally we've provided some money for the water industry, and those dams, which haven't been fixed for years, the three of us will start to fix. Now, that's the real thing, that's the real story, that's the facts, that's all it's not enough for the village, but I'm sure the peasants figured out that this is the first, significant step towards some better situation for them, and therefore, for our economy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3484	I thank Mr. Secretary. Ambassador Vojislav Seselj comes to the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3485	Ladies and gentlemen, over the past few years and decades, the agriculture ministers have been constantly cheating on the peasants, cheating on them. Why a little - because the peasants didn't trust them very much, no matter how many agricultural ministers promised, they didn't add much to it. However, you have been trusted much more, unfortunately, by your Minister of Agriculture incomparably more, because what you promised the peasants, there is hardly any of it, and about fuel, and fertilizer and other, and you, unlike previous ministers, have received free and fertilizer, and fuel, and many other things that are necessary for agricultural production. But it doesn't matter, Mr. Minister. You just tried to explain to them, according to this member of the law, that the amounts here are so low, negligible even, that there's no need to ask a question about this provision of the law. Well, if they're so low and negligible, then why don't you cancel this income tax at all? If that's so little, it is a little bit now, because it's not a revaluation, but we know you and I, you promised cheap electricity, so you've already collected it four times, and you announce that ten times it will be more expensive. You've made a lot of promises, but there's nothing out of your promises. That's why this is bad for peasants. This is dangerous for peasants. The moment someone comes to terms with the revaluation, and everyone has very strong arguments, the one who initiates the revaluation, can't come up with a strong resistance, because it has strong arguments. This is the point where you need to prevent excessive amounts of income tax from agriculture, and you keep refusing. You say nothing means anything to you, it's too little money, a small amount, and you won't accept it. Which you would be denied if you accepted to be 14% - zero for all actions. Simple, nothing. Now, but here comes what's after. That's what we're afraid of later. Furthermore, yesterday, you said that there was a huge gathering in the autumn, because we abolished the regulations. The regulations are an instrument of government, they were abolished ten-fifteen days after October 5th, when the stampede price had already taken place in all areas of trade, in all. Why didn't you get that regulation back now? Why didn't you bring them back if they were a good instrument? No, you're bringing counter-orders. We had an anti-monopoly regulation, to prevent monopolies, we fought monopolism, and you're introducing a monopoly. You need a monopoly, that only you control the import of oil and petroleum products, and the mobsters who are in contact with you, after only you control the import of cigarettes, whiskey and other alcoholic beverages, and for this rest, let it all go to waste, you don't care.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3486	Is anyone else answering for a word on these amendments? He has the word Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3487	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, Mr. Djelic, this point, this amendment is very important, just like before in Article 28. That's why it's very important that we get back together and decide once again whether we voted well the previous time. Mr. Minister, as a sports worker, I congratulate you for winning with a 91 to 87% difference in this amendment. 91 MPs voted for your proposal, for my proposal of 87 MPs. However, Mr. Minister, I have to tell you something - you did not respond, at your last date for this pay phone, to the arguments made clear to you by Mr. Dragan Markovic - Palma, MP of the Serbian Unity Party, not to say transparently, because I usually use Serbian, which has very nice words, which replace this very ugly word, which has recently been very fashionable, and should explain that it means - clearly, publicly shown, or transparently, or any other way, but not transparently. Dragan Markovic - Palma, Mr. Minister, lives in the country. He lives in Končarevo, it's a nice sea village and he, believe me, knows very well the problem of his neighbors and his peasants, his peasants. I highly appreciate you, Mr. Minister, and I think you're a very good expert. I even praised the practice that you have introduced, which is the practice of consulting before the draft laws are passed with representatives of other parliamentary groups, and the position and opposition, in this parliament, and that is for every praise, indeed. I highly respect and appreciate you, but I believe that in this whole system law project that you have proposed, there is only one flaw that seems to me that you personally have, and that is that you have not lived in Serbia for 15 years, especially not in the country and near the village. So I'm sure you don't know these problems well enough, and surely you didn't have adequate advisors who might point to any other problems that peasants have today. All that Mr. Markovic has said, these are facts, it is a naked truth, unfortunately, although your legal projects are aimed at helping a peasant in the future, then it really needs to be welcomed. However, we only asked that the tax rate be reduced for peasants, because it is not right for peasants to have the highest tax rate on their profits. Thank you for your attention. Please take this as a very well-intentioned advice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3488	Thank you, is anyone else applying for a word, according to these amendments? If not, I would like to put the amendment tabled in the same text by MPs Miroljub Veljkovic, Tomislav Nikolic and Dragan Markovic. For 61, against 121 abstentions, there was no 18 vote, and a total of 200 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendments. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant of the amendment comes forward for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 28, I suggest that the tax rate is changed and said: the rate of income tax on agriculture should be 10%. By reducing taxes, farmers will be able to make their incomes more successful and quality for chemical and protective products, artificial fertilisers, seeds, diesel and everything necessary for quality production. By reducing this tax, they would increase the exemption for the abovementioned items. This would increase productivity per unit of surface, if we knew that we once produced more food per hectare than last year. Last year, we were the last in Europe on a scale of artificial fertilizer intake per unit of surface. This tax reduction is designed for a longer period of time to improve the situation in agriculture, which would give back hope for young people, i.e. some from the city, to return to the country. By investing in agriculture, we invest in all branches. I am sorry that Mr Djelic overall comments that farmers pay less than other workers. The minister was probably just out in the country on the Internet. It's hard for a farmer to make money. The villagers know what we Serbian radicals stand for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3490	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? (No). I put the amendments of MP Vitomir Plužarevic to the vote. For 53, against 120, the abstentions were not voted 27, and a total of 200 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment come forward for a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3491	Obviously, it's not worth spending any more words and persuasing the minister. Perhaps the minister would personally and accept, however, most who are here in the Assembly do not accept proposals to reduce taxes on agriculture and forestry, although this would be more concrete aid to the peasants, rather than the one offered by the resolution minister of agriculture. He realized that, in order to help the peasants, he allowed the import of secondhand tractors. Imagine the irony. To allow peasants to import secondhand tractors, claiming that the rolling stock, or the age of agricultural machines in Serbia, is so large and that this is the reason for importing used machines. He didn't, poor thing, he didn't even dare sit down to learn that working hours were a benchmark for age machines. The average working hours in the private sector are 300 and 700 in the social sector. You, Democrats, keep quiet, let me explain this first, and then I have you on the agenda, just take it easy. In the world, the average is 2,000 hours a year. Now look, the tractor that's on average, as the minister said, of course, is statistical data, 13 years old, with us times 300 hours, or take the social sector of 700 hours, is much younger than that tractor that's 5 years old, and worked abroad with a maximum capacity of 2,000 hours. There's a farming expert here. Second, let's take this fellow who keeps throwing. I am one of the MPs who attended the assembly when the Democratic Party proposed a large number of amendments. I listened patiently to my colleagues, some of them present. I felt bad that the government, who at the time treated them arrogantly, rejected every amendment. Then, unlike you colleagues, who keep throwing away, still fulfilling my parliamentary duty, I read those amendments. Here, let your colleagues confirm. Most of these amendments contained the following text, proposed by the Democratic Party: instead of the score, place the point. One section contained the following text: delete a complete member, no legal basis. I'm just saying what the amendments were, what the content of most of these amendments were.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3492	Let's talk about your amendments now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3493	You haven't honored yourself, colleague, no single amendment, no material to read, and you keep throwing it away. It would still be desirable for you to listen, and you will learn something. I know it's hard for you to admit when we Serbian radicals speak from this pay phone, it's hard for you, it's hard for you, and when the people object. You've explained a lot to the people. I know what kind of solutions you're proposing. People will calm down to the media...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3494	I remind you to stick to the agenda theme, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3495	Just take it easy, there's time. You'll try to get us radicals out of this assembly. You're preparing perfided methods. You know everything. Minister Batic is in charge of that. Here, exactly what they were at Vuk Draskovic's. Here's a concrete proposal for us, Serbian radicals, how to possibly complement this deficit that would result in a reduction in the rate of tax. Yesterday, a G17 member at a press conference informed the public that the check received by Vojislav Kostunica from the Libyan government, on behalf of humanitarian aid, had disappeared without a trace. It's not realised, the National Bank doesn't know about it, millions and seven hundred thousand Swiss francs. Here, find that check, find it, realize it, and eventually, this deficit that's not big, and it won't be big, if you cut the rate drastically and to 8%, there won't be a big deficit, to complement by the realization of that check. It is more important to find that check, since G-17 accuses Veselinov of not being right to claim that Djindjic and Dinkic imported artificial fertilizer than to smuggle Vesenov with artificial fertilizer. Now let's see what happens to the check, because we're more interested in what happens to 1,700,000 Swiss francs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3496	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 120, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 23, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3497	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please. There have been many amendments so far. All of us, roughly, were guessing what tax rates would be on citizens' incomes in terms of agriculture. I believe that the tax rate for agricultural income of 20% is extremely high and inappropriate for the situation in which agriculture is now located. The bill shows that taxpayers have the opportunity to form a tax base in two ways on which to pay the tax. One is based on the cadastrian income, which is determined for each catastra unit separately and which, according to the minister's statement, has not been re-valorated in the last five years and the other is based on the actual income, i.e. when all costs are denied. There's something not clear to me. If there is a certain revaluation and the taxpayer assesses that it is more favourable for him to pay on the actual income, how it will prove that expenditure will show. It's very difficult today with laws like this. In the case of agricultural cooperatives operating through a jury account, on the basis of invoices and input calculations, actual incomes and expenditures can also be fully shown as such to create a basis for taxation. However, the problem arises from individual agricultural producers who do not have giro accounts, and according to some statistics, 95% are individual agricultural producers who do not even own current accounts from which they would be able to pay for the purchase of reromaterials. For those who are not informed, I must tell you that the Republic Public Revenue Administration does not recognise a single document, not a single cash account that is greater than 500 dinars, which is issued daily to one person by one company. If an individual farmer or farmer wanted to show his real cost, he would have to go to that store every day, take one bill for the re-promatter he took over. This way of taxing reminds me of a forced ransom that took place in Serbia in the 1950s. So we can re-experience the fate of tax workers falling into our barns, baskets to determine how much revenue we really had, to take away the surplus, and then punish. It was known that the forced purchase of peasants took away the land. In one of the members of this law, it is once again available, with the right that, if the taxpayer did not charge the tax properly, he did not pay it when needed, that the means of coercion could also be taken away from him by the country. From all of this, in order to reduce the possibility of abuse of this tax law and to reduce the burden of agriculture in general, I suggested that the tax rate be reduced from 20% to 7%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3498	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few hours has been debated. 28. which just points to the importance of the amendments that have been submitted to Article 28. 28. In any case, I have submitted an amendment to reduce the rate of income tax in the agricultural producer by 20%, and above all to allow the means to stimulate manufacturers to use for the purchase of new machinery, repromation, seeds, protective means and fuels, knowing that there is a deficit in goods in certain items. First of all, this applies to imported goods, which is fertilizer and fuel. The funds rely on import components, and they are more expensive per unit of product, so the product's parity is not operational with the import elements that are necessary. For the start of this spring sowing, there's a lot of things missing, first of all the fertilizer, the fuel was quite expensive, the spare parts for the machinery that ran out. That's why it's sown much less surfaces than planned. You yourself know that the application of mineral fertilisers in our country to Serbia is the smallest in Europe, and without the use of artificial and mineral fertilisers, there is no profit in agrarian. It does not surprise me at all that the Minister of Agriculture Veselinov does not know how many hours of work the tractor is exploited in the private sector, about 300 hours, and for those tractors imported from abroad, the average is about 2,000 hours. I'm more surprised that the fertilizer imported from Japan in February didn't even know how to distribute. If we don't let the peasant have better benefits, we sure as hell won't get anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3499	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 53, press 119 abstentions, 24 of the 196 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3500	Dear fellow Members, here is another chance to give the Assembly a chance to reduce the income tax on agriculture and forestry, because it is very large. It is an unreasonable proposal from the government to make the tax rate higher than the 14% income tax. Since agriculture is in a very difficult situation, in order to stimulate this agriculture, to provide resources for agrotechnical measures, for seed goods, for mineral fertilisers, I suggest that this tax rate be reduced to restore all this. The difference in tax rates would be helpful for peasants to provide livestock food. That would keep the stock in our country. I remind you that for the past six months, the stock fund has been decimated because the incompetent government was unable to provide corn from abroad in time. In the first three months of 2001, 30% of the bodies were slaughtered more than in the previous 2000 period, and 40% of the pigs were slaughtered in the same period than in the first three months of 2000. These are arguments to be respected. On these amendments, the minister has tried to tell us several times a simple bill he didn't need to tell us. In order to improve the conditions of life in the country, I hope you will accept this amendment of mine and vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3501	Anybody else answer for a word? I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 46, against 106, no one was abstentioned, no vote was taken by 41, a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3502	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Dragan Palma has made quite a picturesque amount of expenditure and income in the village. The reduction in income tax on agriculture and forestry has increased the agricultural budget and the possibility of funding in agrotenic measures, seed goods, oil procurement, the purchase of spare parts and the renewal of machinery. Tradition and economic resources suggest that we give primate to this branch of the economy and put it first on the economic scale. In this respect, attention should be paid to the next reconstruction of agriculture. Its significance in the conditions of blockade and rational environment seems to me that I don't need to tell you, because it's an economic branch that has nothing to do with this year or at least they're so small that they're negligible for some production. Our peasant is with ever worse equipment that is time-consuming and outdated. It's hard to get energy, it's hard to get other materials for agrotechnical measures. It's hard for him to get financial resources, because he spends a year in advance to finally get some of it. He doesn't have a chance to pay taxes on profit as social enterprises pay. On the calculations I could see, they probably won't have any profit, because the drought that hit Serbia last year and which has the character of a natural disaster affected the yields, which also affects income. So a farmer's income tax has to pay whatever income he's earned. Peasant wants an agreement on the price before sowing, the peasant wants guarantees for the prices of repromation. He wants to supply himself neatly with a repromaterial. He's looking for constant priorities, as well as security in plasma. He wants to pay his taxes, he just doesn't want to be in the state he's in today. The government did not deign to mention the adverse effects of drought and to help the village and peasants with restrictive measures. You've been on the government since September of the month, and you probably have information on the annual income of agriculture. Gentlemen, you needed a peasant in September for a bulldozer revolution to bring him down because you seduced him with great donations from your allies. Now that he realizes there's nothing out of it and that he's hungry, even though he's got the ground, shut up and mumble because he realized he was being deceived. I suggest that the rate of agriculture be reduced from 20% to 5% or abolished. This will enable the production of basic agricultural products, the depletion of production, deficit products and, above all, raw milk, sugar tails and tobacco. The freezing of the production of those products should allow for an increase in production whose production volume would satisfy the consumption needs of the Republic. Agricultural production was halved, so that the farmer of larger market surpluses could not achieve, and thus higher income. By making larger revenues, the farmer expands production, thereby increasing production and income, which is for the benefit of all of us. A peasant this year is not capable of such an undertaking. First, due to the failure to produce more production and higher revenue since last year. Secondly, due to an increase in the prices of repromaterials involved in agricultural production. You can safely say that in the last 30 years this year's sowing has been the most expensive. If this 20% rate cannot be reduced, we Serbian radicals are asking that Agriculture Minister Veselinov be removed from that function because he is incapacitated. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a discussion here about the most honest action and the activity of nine crusts, you're making jokes here, and this is a big mess. Mr. Djelic, I see he's not here. I may be the most competent person in this house because I am present in the village and in the factory.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3503	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 45, against 96, there were no abstentions, there were no 47 votes, a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3504	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 29, I have submitted the amendment to several points. Point six. The land that forms a protective environment, in order to tax itself, takes within five years to bring it in for a purpose, I put it to be 10 years. It must have been two to four years for this land to come to that end. In order for a farmer to work, it must surely take two three years to earn some money, so that he can invest later in production. In point 8, where it says - delete 500 m2 and add the following text - in hilly and mountainous areas 500 m2, in plain sections 850 m2. Here it says: "Lands under housing buildings, owned by citizens, and land for their regular use, up to 500 m2", and it's about tax release and relief. Namely, why in plain sections up to 850 m2? Because we know that our gardens and peasant households are certainly over 800 m2 that the real host has. In point 9, after saying, "the second base" to put an end to the point, and the rest is deleted, so the text reads, "Employments of taxpayers, if he and his household members are aged 85 years old, and women are 80 years old, and they have family members and other persons who are legally obliged to support them, and maintenance men, 60 years old and women 55 years old, are exempt from tax obligations." In fact, point 9 says that men of 65 and women of 60 will be freed. There are, at least in Banatian villages, families where father and mother are over 80 years old, and children are 60-65 years old. So these people need to be free of that tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3505	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 45, against 107, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 24, a total of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic to Article 29th point 8. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the MP want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3506	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, submitting an amendment to Article 29, I was led by the fact that, as part of housing buildings in rural areas, land that can't be treated as serious agricultural production, which is used by farmers, or by citizens who own such land, mostly as a garden. For this reason, I felt that, given that such building land with a garden mostly has about 800 square meters, for this reason I have submitted the amendment and in Article 29, I propose that the member that the government proposes to be 500 squares be changed. I believe that in this way a good part of the citizens who own these gardens could provide themselves with basic provisions of life, such as vegetables and fruits. In this way, you could spread the budget, or supplement the household budget, and above all, because a lot of households have unemployed persons, so if it is, and usually happens in villages of five or six people, and only one thing works, to make it easier for them to survive these difficult times that are ahead of all Serbian citizens. So I suggest that the amendment be accepted and that the untaxed part of the land, which would serve for their regular use, be up to 800 m2, which I do not think would be any impact on the revenue side of the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3507	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 46, against 107, a abstentioned one, did not vote 27, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 29th point of the 9th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the promoters want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3508	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in Article 29, regular number 9 at the end of the sentence, instead of the point and the decimal point, are placed on the point and wrote: "as well as taxpayers under the age of 65 (men) and 60 (women), if due to sickness or disability they are permanently prevented from doing the work on the land they possess". In Article 29 of this Act, the income tax on agriculture and forestry shall not be paid on the cadastrian income of the land of the taxpayer, if he and members of his household are older than 65 years (men), or 60 years (women), provided that the debtor, or members of his household, do not generate income on another basis and do not have family members or other persons who are legally or otherwise obliged to support them. With this amendment, I ask that this tax relief be enjoyed by persons under 65 years of age or 60 years of age, if they are permanently prevented from carrying out land work because of sickness or disability. In any case, the state should take care of the old, sick, working incompetent, and this is what Serbian radicals advocate in their programme, above all. I hope that this amendment, for the sick, the disabled and the people who are unable to process agricultural land, will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3509	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 50, against 106, a abstentioned one, was not voted 26, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the MP want a word? He doesn't want to. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 50, against 105, there were no abstentions, no 24 votes, a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 44, against 106, there were no abstentions, no 30 votes, a total of 180 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Mojovici Milena Milosevic submitted to Article 31st position of the 1st amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have adopted this amendment. Since the amendments to the MPs have been adopted by the Government, by the Committee on Finance and by the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 32, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Mamul. At the session of the Legislative Committee, the MP withdrew this amendment. National MP Borislav Pelevic submitted to the 34th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 49, against 109 abstentions, two did not vote 20, a total of 180 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We have a proposal to add a new member of 35 after article 35. The amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Pelevic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 48, against 114, one abstention, 19 did not vote, 182 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We have a proposal to add a new member of 36a after article 36a. National MP Borislav Pelevic has tabled an amendment proposing this. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 50, against 118, there were no abstentions, no 18 votes, a total of 186 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 38th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3510	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with this amendment, I wanted to cut the rate from 20% to 15%, with the reason that the incomes from the independent activity were not paid more than they were paid on profits. The reduction of this rate would stimulate the opening of new shops and the involvement of young people in private entrepreneurship. Based on these tax laws of yours, many will lose their jobs and be forced to open up. This is one of the incentives for many of these private entrepreneurship activities to be included by reducing this tax rate. So please accept this amendment. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3511	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 112 abstentions, there were no, no 25 votes, a total of 189 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the international MPs Borislav Pelevic and Djordje Mamula. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee has assessed that the amendment is legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 63, against 100, abstentions 12, did not vote 14, a total of 189 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Miroljub Veljkovic, Natasa Jovanovic, Tomislav Nikolic and Milorad Mircic submitted to the 38th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3512	The honourable MPs, self-employed in Serbia, are currently engaged in a large number of people, according to some estimates, close to 300,000. It's an enormous army of people, engaged mostly in the service sector. A difficult ten-year period behind us has caused a huge number of people to look for their existence in dealing with small crafts and in the service sector. That's very good. All developed countries in the world are promoting such actions through various types of tax relief, cheap loans and other measures of macroeconomic policy. In developed Japan, I would remind you, as many as 40% of people work in such actions. These are so-called family companies, which are employed by a maximum of one or two workers besides members of the series. The announced transition of the Serbian economy and the announced quick and brutal privatisation will certainly leave a large number of people out of work in social and state-run companies. That's not what this government is hiding. And with her saying that these people are going to collect you through social funds, I'm afraid that this with social funds isn't like those six billion dollars of promise of help, it basically holds water until the masters leave or go to the election. A much smarter state policy would be to allow these people, through macroeconomic policy, in a relatively easy way, to open a private store, and that, in particular, in the service sector. These measures can be: drastically removing taxes to deal with such work, low-cost loans with long-term repayments, state expertise, etc. It is absolutely certain that this sector in the future would make an immeasurable contribution to the development of our economy and economy at all. However, our government is doing exactly the opposite. First, it introduces a 20% dragon tax on services, so it collects the product of these people, and secondly, nothing does anything to reduce the income tax from its own activity. It is true that the tax also amounted to 20% in the previous legislative solution, and I proposed with my amendment that this income tax rate be reduced to 10%. I hope that after these arguments that I have presented you will accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3513	He has the word Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3514	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, during the debate in detail on the income tax law of citizens, the greatest focus is on reducing the percentage for agriculture, however, the 20 per cent taxation offered by the proposer is absolutely unacceptable, because the bill and this agenda point make it clear that you want to make the position of self-employedness more difficult. You cited in the bill the fact of what self-activities are. You said that these were, in fact, economic, intellectual and other independent actions, and then there was one amendment from the MPs, not to say -- as some here -- MPs from the DOS majority, and then you put even more trouble on their necks, who have been taxed through these legal solutions. This applies first of all to those who - as you say - use land for non-agricultural purposes, so through that amendment, it is said that those exploiting sand, gravel, stones, the production of chalk, bricks, ticks, shells, fruit and other seedlings and seeds, as well as incubator production of livestock, whether or not they are registered. What do you see from this? It is evident that out of all these carefully written amendments by the Serbian Radical Party MPs, which has been discussed all day, the government has not found fit, nor has a resolute minister, to accept any single amendment, to spread the tax base and to list everyone I have read of the individual activities. It's just that you're the one who wants to, and it's obvious here, that you're doing your own work and those who are doing it are even more difficult. In his yesterday's -- on two occasions -- Minister Djelic made a lot of hollow and empty speeches -- saying about the bill on income tax, most potentiated foreign investors, future privatisation, etc. The minister should have known that our country -- yesterday we talked a lot about it -- in a difficult situation, a lot of businesses aren't working, and you yourself said 10 or 15 days ago that there would be a huge layoff of workers. The question is, what about those who are just deciding on that self-reaction, and they're going to have such a high rate of taxation. On the other hand, it is in direct conflict with Article 13 of this law, where it is clearly predicted that the profit tax rate is united to 14%. The government has accepted that future workers who produce something to feed their families will likely have rigorous criminal provisions. Who are those who are involved in the production of chickens, how they will survive together with their families? They wanted to say that they don't care at all about the development of small businesses. How would they be interested when it's just a mere and empty DOS story that you're interested in improving economic opportunities in our country and for future privatisation that I believe you're not ready to start because there's still no legal project and you're not seeing it. The old privatisation law has been lifted. On the other hand, we can expect a robbery method, such as that which is present and which is close to you, for which we have today provided concrete data at this session -- to be a manner and a future privatisation process. The government had no argument other than that the amendment was not accepted since the rates of all revenues were uniform in the percentage amount of 20%. It's like you told us something new. That's why we're writing amendments and criticizing this legal project to reduce that rate. On the other hand, the competent committee of the Assembly did not find it appropriate, individually, for each of these amendments, or for this member of the Assembly, to make a statement. They simply nominated what the government said. The government has also shown concern for these people, and in that sense the MPs sitting on that congregation committee have done so. All this is saying enough about you with your bad tax policy and the application of such a rigorous tax policy will continue, so it will be a consequence of our entire economy. In order for the minister who follows all this, as well as your entire DOS majority, to accept these amendments, so that the minister may know something about when he is on permanent route from Belgrade to Paris. He himself told a newspaper a few days ago that Belgrade and what is happening in Belgrade only sees from a ministerial car, when he returns from work during the day and evening. That's why he can't even know what our suffering is, or what pain it is for those who deal with self-employedness. You, Mr. Minister, have given an amazing speech to the head of the DOS parliamentary group last night and night, and we expect that you will probably do so before the end of our day. You said you advocated Serbia in the movement, in the relationship between Belgrade and Paris, probably and again in the role model of your president, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Djindjic, who sees Serbia on the move on the Trinity, which he presented to us a few days ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3515	Anyone else answer for a word? Nobody. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 49, against 118, there were no abstentions, they did not vote 22, out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. Members of the 38th Amendment were submitted by MPs Gordana Pop-Lazic and Goran Cvetanovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3516	Here, for two days we've been trying to fix this bill, as far as possible, in favour of those who are subject to taxation under this law. The government is deaf to all of this and I have the impression that politically it would be much wiser on our part, I mean the SRS, that we would shut up and let DOS do what he imagined. They'll get sick of the people. More like the people will understand what's going on. However, as responsible people and responsible MPs, we try to make a truly constructive contribution, to fix something, and to save what can be saved. The government, even when it comes to independent craftsmen, independent caterers and merchants, has little hearing for them, nor for farmers or landowners, and does not realize how busy the people in this sector are and how many people, thanks to these tax burdens, will be forced to shut down these shops. The government forgets that they, in addition to this, have other obligations - property taxes, so they contribute, as the new bill of law that we will only have at this session is being treated. The basis for the first degree of expertise is about 3,038 dinars, to which a contribution must be paid. And instead of the government thinking about how to make it easier for these businessmen, the owners of these catering, trade, craftsmanship, to eventually employ an even greater number of people, reducing their income tax rate, it simply makes an evening and all by the same archeological -- 20%. By listening to this Minister of Labour, Mr Milovanovic, who is more personal to the village jillko, as he behaves here in the Assembly, I come to the conclusion that.... (President: Mrs. Pop-Lazic, do not court yourself, change to the amendment - sagor. )......................................................................................................... The members of the SRS are winking, whispering, he's probably courting here, I don't know if he looks like a country girl to my colleagues or to me, and I had to say he really looks like a country girl. The peasants know what a village dwarve is. It's an ugly name for a loser, right. However, I wanted to say something else, Mr. Minister. You probably expect all these 300,000 people to now provide their existence from those social funds of yours. Well, how many social funds are these? So, where are these social funds gonna come from? We do not want to have citizens here who will be told and who will be users of social giving, but people who can by their work provide existence to their families. They put some capital into it. They want to work. Now they'll be forced to do little of what they have to sell, to live off that property for a while, from what they've accomplished and after being a social problem. That's what you want for Serbia and the Serbian people in the future. Just so we're all a social case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3517	Is Mr. Cvetanovic answering for his word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in article 38, the tax proposed for income from self-employed activity is 20% and this is really too high. In any case, small businesses that employ a large number of workers should be strengthened. Taxing this category of taxpayers tends to close trades. My parents worked for 15 years on their own, then retired. At that craft center where they worked, I say responsibly, out of 50 craft stores, 20 already doesn't work. That's why I'm afraid that there will be young people on the streets who will seek their rights slowly, expressing their dissatisfaction, and that would be devastating, above all, for the DOS government, because they are choking freedom and the right to work. The craftsmen will go to work on black. They will offer goods from apartment to apartment to survive, and the tax will not be collected in that way. The law is highly detimulative and does not allow for the development of self-operation. The very work that works to earn this bill will be increased taxes, primarily on night and other forms of work, so they will not be interested in working on the ground, at night, etc. The economic power of the citizens is very low, so the one who deals with self-activities must ensure the existence of his family. Since their customers are citizens, they are unable to pay the proposed charges, which the taxpayer must install at the price of his services.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3519	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 52, against 126 abstentions, 17 of the 195 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 40, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP George Mamul. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the amendment promoter want a word? (In the meantime, MP Mircic asks for a word about article 38) No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Your amendment has passed, of course not. Here, I will now tell you - Miroslav Veljkovic, Natasa Jovanovic, Tomislav Nikolic, and Milorad Mircic. (Employer Mircic again from the post asking for a word. ) How could I not, Miroljub Veljkovic and Natasa Jovanovic spoke. That's the amendment. How come I didn't read it? We'll look into the record tomorrow. (Employer Mircic, from the post: I have the right to explain my amendment. ) Does Mr. Mamula, in view of Article 40(1), which he has submitted to the amendment? Does he want a word? He doesn't want to. ) (Employee Mircic, from the post: President, you cannot deny me the opportunity to explain the amendment. Of course I'm not denying you. I asked if anyone wanted a word. (Employee Mircic: You have not completed your amendments to Article 38) It was completed with these amendments to Article 38 of the amendment in the same text. Let's not have sex like this. Is anyone answering for a word about the amendment to article 40? (Employer Mircic from the post asks for a word in the Rules of Procedure. ) Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3520	I suppose it is clear that I should not specify a member who allows the MP to explain his amendment. This is a fundamental right guaranteed by the Rules of Procedure and by all legal and sublegal acts. If I say you didn't mention my name, then I'm sure. And you, based on oral testimony - how can you rely on the lips of testimony... (Comment from the Hall of the Messengers of Seselj - without conscience or witness), it is better than the unaccountable. How can you concentrate when you and the secretary laughed during the presentation of Gordana Pop-Lazic, SRS MPs, ambassadors. Come on, I can understand you, Mr. President, for laughing. It looks really funny to you, but I can't understand him. He laughed so much, or he gave out such an impression, as if it were flour back. Don't, President. Focus on your work. There's no problem. We can be and, in the end, we're tolerance. It's all funny to you, it's funny to you, and when a column of cars in front of the Assembly greets you, you don't turn around, you're not comfortable with your greetings. Have you seen how much the people value you? First, you denied me the right to interpret the amendment, which I have proposed as a People's MP. You've moved on to Article 40, and you haven't allowed my amendment to try to influence the minister. Here, let's say, I'd like to finally convince the Minister not to enter the EEZ with tax rates.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3521	Mr. Mircic, you didn't get a word in on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3522	I'm talking about the possibilities that would be.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3523	Mr. Mircic, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3524	So why would they ask me to finish? I've got three minutes to explain. This is an explanation. Maybe I'd like to appeal to you again, come on, find that million-and-seven hundred Swiss francs check, so it's big, people, money.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3525	You're such an unusual MP. Your amendment has been considered. This is the third one that is now next, after which you have submitted, in the same text with MP Miroljub Veljkovic, Natasa Jovanovic, Tomislav Nikolic. (Employer Tomislav Nikolic asks for a word. ) You are also asked, read, and the fact that you are talking to each other, that you do not follow the course of the session, as well as many others, it is not the president's fault, it is your fault. After all, it's hard, after a very exhaustive and eloquent presentation of your colleagues, to add anything to that argument. That's what we've come to realize, and all I can ask you is, are you asking for the Assembly to make a statement about it? (Employer Mircic: I can only say two words. You can't. I would like to vote on the amendments of Parliamentarian George Mamula to Article 40. For 79, against 103 abstentions 8, it did not vote 8, out of a total of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic to Article 40. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 58, against 129, a abstentioned one, was not voted 9 out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic to Article 40, paragraph 4 of the amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? He's not answering. ) I am putting the amendment of MP Dragan Markovic to the vote. For 57, against 130, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 10, out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic, Goran Cvetanovic and Dragan Tomic submitted to article 40th, item 4th of the amendment in the same text. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Financial Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee has concluded that this amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3526	I have submitted an amendment that says, in Article 40(2) point 4. "an amount greater than a million dinars," it changes to "a rent greater than two million dinars". The legislator conditioned that the right to flat-rate taxation cannot be recognised by an entrepreneur whose total turnover in the year preceding the year for which the tax is determined, or whose traffic is planned, when the performance begins, is greater than a million dinars. Already at this point, that's about 33,000 marks. By the end of the year, it'll be maybe 25 or 20,000 marks. It's really a very small amount. That's why we asked to increase the amount to more than two million. Mr. President, just a moment the head of the DOS parliamentary group, Cedomir Jovanovic, misread my amendment, you didn't let me answer, here's the time I have 15 seconds to answer that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3527	What are these late replicas without the right to a replica? What's this about?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3528	Article 9th point 18 reads - "until the minimum laid down by the law governing working relations" and I suggested that it be "up to the amount of average earnings in the Republic of Serbia". It's not the same. But, Mr. Jovanovic, this is not the matter in which you understand, you understand one matter, whose traffic is prohibited, and the use of punishment. (Kedomir Jovanovic: In what matter? So you know which one it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3529	There is a word from MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3530	Dear Members of the People, now that the debate is over today, it is likely that the citizens of Serbia have had the opportunity to hear all sorts of things, perhaps in the end we need to hear a little bit of each other, yet this is what we are talking about regarding taxpayers and their rights. We'll know for sure if we've been thinking rightly, when we took part in this debate, and if we've said something of quality, above all whether we helped our taxpayers pay a real tax. When I proposed this amendment that has the same content with the amendment of MPs from the Serbian Radical Party, my motives were different. Long-term practice in the tax area has often had excursions to such an extent that there has been abuse and, let me say, the firmness of a part of the legislation in this area has its own justification and a better quality approach. We often had trips in this area that led to a number of taxpayers avoiding paying part of the tax in total traffic during the year. Standard taxation means one fixed amount that you pay all year round, whether you have achieved more or less traffic. Please listen to what I'm talking about. When it comes to this point 4, the restrictive nature of the proposal may not be good for some areas, which have been traditionally taxed for years. First of all, I think of the car transport area, other specific areas, the area of construction, where the total traffic over the account is significantly higher, because the depending costs of carrying out this activity, especially in the case of the car carrier, are extremely high. Just to remind myself, oil, fuel, oil, spare parts, tires, etc. And it has a significant impact on total traffic, but the income and the rest of the income on that basis is quite low. Maybe this amendment doesn't have its own political core, nor does it have political weight, but believe me, there is also great importance in practice because the category of taxpayers I'm talking about here tonight -- and I don't see anyone wanting to hear it, listen to these fellow promoters and people who are willing to participate in the debate -- is about to suffer significant damage. I have to remind myself that this category of taxpayers, by themselves, was never in a position to run business books until the end. Don't warn me on time, I'm very careful when it comes to time. Therefore, and when we talked to the Committee on Finance, where the Government said that this amendment is legally possible and that it makes a lot of sense, the Legislative Committee also confirmed it, and I think what I'm talking about now is moving right into that sphere that is interested in our citizens. These categories of taxpayers that I mentioned here tonight -- that's more of a political category -- that's tax categories and let me say one more thing, I mentioned the term several times from this pay phone -- tax is coercion. When you issue a tax solution, it ends up saying - you can complain, but the complaint does not retain execution. I'm telling you, if we don't adopt this amendment tonight, make sure that one very important category of taxpayers who make income in the area is damaged, and for years they make their income, and all these years they've endured various problems of purchasing parts, old rolling stock and sanctions. I think this amendment makes a lot of sense and needs to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3531	The word has a finance minister, Mr. Djelic. To finish the amendment, we're not going to cut it in half.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3532	I'd just like to point out, and it's a bit of a shame that radicals are coming out at this point, when, behold, on behalf of the government, I want to support their amendment by the SPS. We think, we looked at various dams and simulated the effects, but discussion in parliament, and that's one important part of him, and that in the Committee, the arguments that were rational and that proved that there were some dams and that could lead to great difficulties, they convinced us to change our mind and support that amendment. I must say that the situation in the country is such that there can be no place for any vanity, no copyright. Every good idea must be supported and I think this is a good idea. Believe me, there's no vanity, this government doesn't claim to know everything. We will look very closely at and apply each day, all of these regulations and weigh every day, absolutely, the necessity of stability in these regulations. Citizens and businesses always ask us to have stable conditions of self-inflictedness. On the other hand, if something doesn't show you the results, we'll change that. That's why I'm saying that, and I'm glad at this point, I'm asking that this amendment be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-04-10-0.u3533	In order not to be inconceivable, I still have to put it to a vote and make a statement in this sense, because we don't have the official position of the government, but we do have a Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. If no one ever answers for a word again, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 156,... Please, has anyone written down the results, not arrived, so it's written down, you want to tell me? (Stenographer reads the results: "For 156, against four, abstention four, there was no 11 vote, a total of 175 MPs were present." Well, I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. We'll continue tomorrow with the beginning at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to official record, 110 MPs were recorded at the latest. Please determine the quorum. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
