ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1976	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising a violation of article 79. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Sessions of the National Assembly shall be held between 10.00 and 19.30 hours, unless otherwise specified for individual cases by the President, usually at the beginning of the session. Yesterday, the president informed us that the session starts at 10.00 hours. It's 10.45. It's a holiday today. You insisted on working on a state holiday. Then it's necessary to secure the quorum in order to start in time. I think DOS MPs are avoiding coming to this assembly because they are aware that by adopting this budget and these laws, they will cause a great revolution in the people. The evidence is also 10,000 people gathered yesterday in Nis, who demonstrated and protested against this kind of state policy. I insist that it be determined whether the Rules of Procedure is injured or broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1977	I don't see what can be answered here. This is no objection to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This is just a finding that the session began with a delay. She can't start before there's a quorum. So it's quite clear what it's all about. All you can ask is for the Assembly to make a statement that article 79 has been broken. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1978	I'm looking.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1979	We'll put your proposal to the vote. For 18, against 135, the three abstentions, was not voted by the 21st MP, a total attendance of 177. I find that the National Assembly has concluded that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the absence of the following MPs has been granted: Radomer Naumovo, Muji Mukovic, Nebojsa Lekovic, Vladan Jovicic, Dragan Sutanovac, Marko Đurišic, Srdja Popovic and Natasa Milojevic. Meetings of the National Assembly were called on to be attended by the president, vice-president, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - COMMUNITY COMMUNITY PREPARATION ON THE PROPOSAL OF THE BUDGET LAW AND THE GROUP OF THE FOLLOWING LAWS (addition) I remind you that at yesterday's session, we have launched a joint principle search on the drafts of the law from this session's agenda. After the presentation of Mr. Zoran Djindjic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Finance and Economy and Mr. Dragan Vesenov, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, took part in the debate: - Mr. Borislav Pelevic, who explained his separate opinion at the meeting of the Committee on Defence and Security, on the consideration of the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001, - MPs' group: Mr. Vojislav Seselj (in two speeches - five minutes), Mr. Branislav Ivkovic (in the first address - 10 minutes), Mr. Boris Pelevic (in two speeches - five minutes) and Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic (in the first address of five minutes) and - 26 MPs. The exposure time is limited to five minutes. We continue a joint principled search on: - Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001 - Proposal for a Law on the Use of the Agrarian Budget in 2001, - Proposal for a Law on Excises, - Proposal for a Law on Transport Tax, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses, - Proposal for a Law on the Size of Funds and the Participation of Municipalities and Cities in Transport Tax in 2001. He has the word Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1980	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a proposal in accordance with Article 79, which is previously tended to be cited. It is said that congregations are held between 10.00 and 19.30 hours. We didn't break the Rules of Procedure. Congratulations to Members on the correct and correct interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. At the same time, calling on the same member, I suggest that we work today until 24.00 hours, so by midnight, and in such a way try to overcome the obstruction that we are facing through hundreds of amendments that have been proposed and that we have a break from an hour and 30 minutes from 14.00 to 15.30.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1981	Ladies and gentlemen, when we brought in this new Rules of Procedure, we extended the usual working hours, which was foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, so that the Assembly could work effectively for about eight hours, given how much attention all MPs can hold in this assembly, how many people can endure sitting in benches, participating in discussions and debates and all those on the agenda. I understand that this is a large agenda, that large material is in front of us and that there are many amendments, but judging by how this session without quorum started, as we always have a problem with the lack of quorum, I think it's completely pointless to work until 2400 hours. If you couldn't gather 126 MPs at 10.00 in the morning, you won't be able to keep them together until midnight. You always say that, but experience teaches us different. Experience teaches us that there is no discipline, primarily in the ruling parliamentary group. Discipline exists, for example, in the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group -- or we all put in cards or we all take out cards. When we want to obstruct, we do it organized and disciplined. When we want to participate in the work, we also work organised and disciplined. So the only envious level of discipline and organisation has been shown by the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. You'll put us in a position to sit here until midnight, wait for you to collect your deputies by hotels, by private companies, by houses, by apartments, and in the end we'll do nothing. Anyway, we won't be able to finish today's agenda by midnight. You will manipulate the entire assembly, and we will have to gather again tomorrow, and tomorrow will be an even bigger problem for you to gather MPs. So you're not getting anything at all. Only once more will you demonstrate your inability to hold the quorum in the Assembly. Kukat how important the budget is, how there are many amendments, how municipalities should hold their sessions and bring their budgets. You are not able to provide the majority in this congregation for her work, let alone to decide. Imagine...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1982	It's been three minutes, and you haven't made a proposal. You're commenting on the previous proposal, and you haven't made your proposal in three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1983	Imagine the shame of us taking out the cards at the vote, and you don't have enough quorum. Well, you might have a budget for that. So, I suggest that if the work of the Assembly is to be extended, let it extend to 20 hours, possibly to 21 hours. It's completely pointless to work until 24 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1984	We have two suggestions. Any further suggestions on the length of work?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1985	Mr. President, we agreed to work until 7:30 yesterday. I wouldn't change this all the time, and if this has to be adopted, I suggest we work normally today, so by 7:30, and we make a decision today to work tomorrow until we're done. It's got to be. Not today or tomorrow. I'm afraid this decision will ruin tomorrow's session. That's my suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1986	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on February 27th, we continued the Assembly until 28th of February at 02.00 hours. Then there was nothing for a month. Since the government has failed to complete its work, it should not turn MPs into miners. It is normal that Mr. Ceda Jovanovic here proposes, because the DOS government chose you as MPs, and you didn't choose the government. So, if we have to stick to the Rules of Procedure once, what do we need time to do in the Rules of Procedure, we do it as miners, because someone doesn't know how to do their job. Therefore, we should do as it says in the Rules of Procedure, and that will be our best.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1987	Please, let's stop the debate. This isn't a debate. You answer the question, you discuss the proposal made by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. It's not a debate, it's a headache and a voice. Here you go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1988	Mr. President, you hurt the Rules of Procedure by saying that all MPs should be tortured with their heads. To hold their heads shut.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1989	What member is that?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1990	As for the MPs of the SRS, they can shake their heads, but no stuttering feels. You who think that when you don't feel the stammering, that there's nothing terrible, you're wrong. [[Laughter]] Take the egg in your hand and torture it. If you don't feel the stammering, the egg is healthy. If it feels like the egg's masculine, it's a cat. Therefore, you who are stuttering your head know what kind of situation you are in. [[Laughter and applause.]] With us Serbian radicals, the skull can only be tight for the great brain, and that the masculine, indeed, so much fluid is not to be tortured.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1991	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1992	Dear People's MPs, an emergency procedure is scheduled for this session and we started a session yesterday, which has a follow-up today. Yesterday is the beginning of the session, so this isn't the second session, it's the same session, and this violates Article 83. Rules of Procedure. So today we don't adopt the agenda, we don't introduce new rules, but if the president said that the heads of Parliament's clubs have already taken advantage of part of their right to participate in the debate, and now we're changing the rules and we're determining the minors of the second course of work. We don't mind the session ending as planned. We're against the speed of things. These are serious issues for this people, serious tax procedures against citizens, and there is no savings against citizens, but there is one serious taxation. Therefore, I ask you to try to do as the citizens of Serbia can hear us in quality, and the legislators and us who make remarks on the proposals. For one reason only, to understand the scope of this tax reform and to realize that there is no tax reform here, but there is one serious cut and action towards the citizens. They must be aware of it and there is no saving, but there is one serious taxation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1993	Rules of Procedure? Proposal, what? It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1994	Honorable MPs, and this time we haven't done well. When we talked about the Rules of Procedure and when we made remarks that he wasn't good, now it's clear that he's really not good. I suggest we cancel the Rules of Procedure and not lose every day for three, four hours, discussing the Rules of Procedure. We're still going to discuss Rules of Procedure for three, four hours today and we don't have time to discuss the agenda afterwards. Therefore, I believe that if you want to work, you should throw the time out of the Rules of Procedure and then it won't be limited and we don't have to have a discussion for two hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1995	You called about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We have two proposals to put to the vote. The first is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic's proposal to work today up to 24 hours, with a break from 14 hours to 16:30. The second proposal is for Mr Dragisic to be working until 20 hours, possibly by 21 hours, with a break from 14 to 15.30 hours. The third proposal is to work on the Rules of Procedure. This is understood if these proposals are not adopted, then they are done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I put Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic's proposal to vote. For 97, against 74, four were abstentions, not voted 23, and a total of 198 MPs were present. What is this, half? Please wait in silence to calculate, where the excitement is so much. Hold on. I find that this proposal has not received most of the MPs. I put Mr Dragisic's proposal to vote. For two, against 69, the two abstentions, did not vote 133, a total of 206 MPs. I also find that this proposal has not received the support of the MPs and that we will be working until 19 hours and 30 minutes. There is the word of the Messenger of the people Zlatan Jovanovic, and after him the Messenger of the people Milos Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1996	Ladies and gentlemen, what first comes to mind and the layman of finance is to make a comparison between what was proposed by the new draft budget law and what was realized in the previous year. Of the 30 billion dinars, as collected and spent in the previous year, the current government offers the nation a budget of 130 billion dinars or almost 4.5 billion marks. Spending such large resources in the situation in which the country is located and in the situation in which budget users are located is quite easy and is not a very specific mind, if we know what the situation is both in education and in health, justice and state administration. But what is controversial and what causes our disfavor and disapproval, and in Serbia's citizens mostly fear, is the revenue side of the budget, that is, the way these funds will be raised. The question is how to raise 4.5 billion German marks or 130 billion dinars in this year, if we know that the economy mostly doesn't work, as the prime minister said yesterday, only 25% of the economic capacity is operational. Even ordinary citizens of Serbia are clear that these funds will be removed from their backs and hence their chills and fears. We MPs here in the Assembly can only confirm that fear, because these days we have received a package of tax laws, a proposal for tax laws, and we understand that these funds will mainly be removed from the back of taxpayers. The essence of the tax system reform offered by the current government is contained in one sentence, which is also the headline from the daily newspaper a few days ago -- only air will not be taxed. Unfortunately, even such a drastic tax system will not be able to provide the projected funds, as the government acknowledges, as the revenue side of the budget remains less than 22 billion dinars. This deficit will, as the explanation puts it, be filled with the funds achieved from privatisation, from donations and from the debt of the Republic. I personally doubt the possibility that these funds can be collected at all. First, privatisation is impossible to achieve these funds, because it was in this assembly a month or a little more before the privatisation law was suspended for 6 months, or rather, the privatisation minister said he would be in front of the Assembly with a new bill in six months. So, in the next six months, we won't have the privatisations of the ineligible ability to raise those funds. In other words, these privatisation funds can only be considered for next year, meaning for the next budget. As far as donations are concerned, we're all witnessing that out of the announced six billion marks or dollars, but I don't know anymore, there's nothing. In the campaign, you announced six billion dollars or marks, and now we've seen that there's nothing left. Some small donations were made, but only until December elections and then literally no more dollars or stamps. When we are already donations, I would also ask the government, or executives who contact the West, with Western friends and benefactors, to tell them that Serbs are a proud and dignified people and that they do not like charity and that they do not accept it or are reluctant to accept it. I ask you to pass on to Western friends and benefactors that the Serbian people have a good memory and that the Serbian people should not be spending funds on us and that they put on facilities for which, by the way, they give us a little something, that they put big blue tables on which they say they helped us. They have left in this country enough monuments and to this people, by which this people means them to me, and our descendants will never forget them. Filling the budget with debt isn't domestic. The right host must not be in charge and rely and count on the task. He'd rather tighten his belt and suffer for a year, because he knows that being in charge can cost him a lot more later. Finally, let me refer to yesterday's presentation of Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, who said that the priorities of this government are education, health and investment, both in education and in health. What's a fact, it's that today's teacher's salary in high school is 4,000 dinars. We've just heard and read these days that the Republican average is something above 4,000 dinars. For the first time, and I've been in education for 14 years, the first time is the teacher's salary in high school is lower than the republican average. When you talk about investment in education and health care, the truth is, things are like this. In the draft budget, 29th Property Directorate, 158 stands - investments (school, health, government, internal affairs, prisons, culture and physical culture) are one billion dinars. At the same time, Split 6 - Ministry of Finance and Economy, position 29 - the co-ordination body of the federal government and the Republic government for the municipalities of Bujanovac, Medvedja and Presevo - 500 million dinars. In other words, Nebojsa Covic and his team, I don't know how many there are, I heard a few names, will spend in this year on their activities in southern Serbia half of the amount planned for investments in education, health, government, internal affairs, prisons, culture etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1997	Please finish. You've been two minutes. You've got an hour ahead of you and take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1998	At the very end, gentlemen of the government, you should have, when planning this budget, taken into account that in most municipalities in Serbia, your party comrades are in power, and they have already cut taxes, i.e. local taxes. They've already taxed citizens at a local level with more taxis and now we have a situation where the same taxpayers pay taxes and taxes on the same basis twice. How sincere and fair the government's intentions are, how serious the government's approach to this problem is, shows also a large number of amendments that just yesterday the Government submitted to this assembly through the Finance Committee. During the assembly session, the government faces MPs with amendments that amend some of the decisions set out in its proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u1999	Eight minutes of speaking, please finish, this is the third time I've warned you, I'll have to take your word for it. Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2000	Now a flat excise on oil, i.e. gasoline primarily falls from 16 to 10 dinars and some other excises change. It also changes the range of products that are now not taxed. We end, gentlemen, I think of you from the Government, and I ask the Prime Minister and the other gentlemen to explain to us what they were motivated yesterday to change their original decisions during the Assembly, to change their proposals in the part of the excise rates, in respect of products that are not taxed and to explain to us now how they will be replaced, or to whom they will deny this amount of funds that are now reduced by this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2001	You don't need to apologize to me, you need to stick to the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger Milos Lukic has the word, and after him, the MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2002	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, honourable fellow Members, in order to achieve the objectives of adopting such a budget and such a package of tax regulations, it is necessary to take a realistic look at the next situation, primarily the possibility of inflows in the budget. We, the MPs of the Soviet Union, analysing the possibilities of a budget inflow, have concluded that it is realistic that this inflow is achieved by about 50%. Which is why they're well-known. It's the state of the economy, the state of our citizens, their ability to pay all these taxes, which they expect with this package of regulations, as well as that set of regulations that follow. As a previous condition for budgeting, we expect the recovery of economic activity and, in this sense, the people expect much from the adoption of the privatisation law, with impatience, to take the path of reviving the economy, in order to have something to deal with for all the needs provided for in the budget. The very announcement of these proposals of measures and of these regulations has caused a reaction within the people, in all layers of citizenship, both in workers and in those who are unemployed, in forced labour and they expect to get their jobs, not to mention the dissatisfaction of pensioners, peasants and other layers of citizenship. It is also important to pay particular attention to a category of citizens who, either guilty or debtors, have become a social category, which are citizens who have been expelled from their hearths, forcedly displaced and who also have to get their place in the budget and have their status regulated with positive regulations, until they get a lot of employment. The first item the prime minister stressed was savings. I don't think he's coming until after this. So, it should be saved in most positions, and we have in mind that this government has promised an independent judiciary, a police force, which will not be corrupt, has promised better salaries in health, education, etc. Realistically, resources need to be found in order to achieve this. It's hardly that with an inflow like this, it can all be satisfied. So we are also practically causing dissatisfaction with these categories that are on the budget and that expect their salaries to be settled regularly and in a decent amount. When it comes to the excise law, I would only say briefly about liquid fuels, we believe that there is a need to equate excise gas - regardless of the difference in excise duty between gasoline and diesel - and other derivatives, which should be adequately burdened with these excise duties, in order to avoid any speculation that was actually caused by such a drastic cut in this area. I would suggest to the Prime Minister that perhaps during today's or by the end of this session, a delegation of the Chamber of Commerce, who is in the mood to give a half-hourly conversation a lot of arguments for all of this. And practically, then we'll have the first chance to get an oil transporter's association, I mean at the Chamber of Commerce, and it's ready to accept even greater obligations, but to prevent all speculation, poor quality, etc. As far as breaking the smuggling chains, etc., it's done before, it's always possible to do it at one point, so we think it's one thing to talk about and we're close to a solution. As for the tax on services, I also believe, and we have reactions among many who have so far paid a 10% tax on services, this rate is unacceptable for many, it will cause strong reactions. Consider the example of the carrier and the transport companies. Most of the transport companies in Serbia have a rolling stock between 16 and 20 years old, and each unit has a large number of workers who are a director or administration and are sure that, by paying this tax, with increased oil taxes and oil derivatives, they can hardly continue to perform their duties, they can hardly settle this obligation and pay salaries to workers. We are close to a solution, and it would be found, perhaps by a slight reduction in the rate or by halveing the rate of tax on services, at least for the area of transport which is in a difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2003	The People's Messenger Vladimir Garčević has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2004	I would like to begin with something that made me happy last night, which is that our Prime Minister Djindjic finally confessed after a long time to how many employees are in the internal affairs bodies. The number so far has been 100,000, it's reduced to objective yesterday, and that's what makes me happy. If this is the beginning of the operation of the truth, then we can all be satisfied in this country if the ministers accept all of it. Why? About 14.5,000 employees, those who go out to the streets, at least that's how it was in the Dnevnik last night. In total, it was employed by 25,000, and the figure of 100,000 fell from pre-election activities to only one quarter. I think it's going to be a shift to work in accordance with legal acts. On the other hand, I would like to raise the question, so that there may be no doubt, Mr. Veselinov. Let's clear up in your DOS what's true about artificial fertilisers and prices, as well as the possibilities for our factories to produce. I say - why? You know it's been going on for a few days now that the group that imported the fertilizer imported it at higher prices. I want to believe that's not the case, but since it comes from yours, from the same party, or coalition, it gives me the right to doubt. Eliminate suspicion, because there were plenty of suspicions, when suspected between parties, and inside the same party, and that doesn't lead anywhere. When we look at the part about the economy, I can tell you that the dissatisfaction with these acts is enormous in the people. This dissatisfaction is an objective nature, and I don't think with this kind of economic policy we're going to get far. In what I'd like to confess to the government is that she managed to divide the working class into 10, 12 and 13 unions. That's good for her. Well, it can be negotiated with two unions, three or five, and then we're going to side by side. The previous government failed and couldn't do it, to separate the unions and make it a better government. I would like to say the following -- it is said that huge funds for education have been allocated. On paper, yes. Looked at how much one man takes, no. I'm going to tell you that the higher cookout has 2,800 now, counting on a 35 percent increase, according to this project, we're going to get to the figure that we're going to get to 3,800 and 3,900. Given what is being done in local areas, local self-government with its prices that are up to 10 times higher somewhere, I don't see that this educator in September will be able to survive at all. That also applies to professors. They start at 3,800 and move on. For the first time, we are below the municipal average, below the republican average. For the first time, a high professional cook is below the average. This tells us that education will be in an even more difficult situation in the coming period. Looking at the material position, and education is not just a salary, it is a very important component, i.e. the material participation of education in the work belonging to municipalities I cannot accept, specifically right in Sremska Mitrovica, secondary education with 4 and a half million or 4,600 in the last year to go to 5 and a half. If we say that inflation was 120%, if we think it's going to be by what you're giving 30%, and what the Institute gave from 50 to 60% last night, then the question is, how does a school with 31,000-year-olds work at the department? When the price of electricity rises far more, when the price of heating goes up, because it's being maintained, to accept it, at low limits because of this or that, and now we're going to get into a situation where schools are getting even more poor in that part. I'm ready to prove that we can't materially settle it, because that's where all the segments come in, the travel expenses of the workers. Whoever wants me to sit down and prove that part, that we really can't accept it. It's not a mess and a waste, it's really a domestic business, and it's not a good part. I'd say the following -- I can't accept the Bujanovec segment below. I like to say here how long it'll take. Does this mean that all year long Covic will be with the team in Bujanovac? That's not good. I think these underdeveloped municipalities... I'd like to ask Seselj to keep quiet while I'm talking, and I've been listening to you so you can listen to me too. [[growls]] Let's get this straight. What I'm saying is that we need information that's time. Maybe he can't get his hands on it, but still so many millions, it's a big waste. As for excises and all that, I don't think some segments should have gone. Please consider that taxes on children's clothes, on textbooks, on what makes students, are respected and free our children from it. Thank you. (Employer Seselj seeks word - replica, from place. At the same time, the Prime Minister is asking for a word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2005	The word has the Prime Minister, Mr. Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2006	There have already been several mentions of expenditure from the budget for the Presevo Municipality's Co-ordination Body, Bujanovac, Medvedju, and the issue of spending the money has been raised. There are assumptions, which I don't think are well-intentioned, that this money is used to fund the organisation or co-ordination committee, the body, which consists of representatives of the Serbian government, the federal government and the Yugoslav Army. The money for the safety of the territorial zone stretching 90km and at a width of between 5 and 8km. That money is money for paying special units that should operate there, which are in the formation phase and through this budget to give the coordination body the right to use that money, but of course in the decision of the Serbian government, the Yugoslav government, are also the general staff of the Yugoslav and Serbian military, the authorities through which these expenditures are approved and controlled. If you're asking me if that's enough, I'm saying that's not enough. If you're asking me how long it's gonna take, I'm telling you it's gonna take at least five years. So that money is not given to the municipalities of Bujanovac, Preshevo, Medvedja. That money is given to police officers, for special purposes in providing a minimum degree of security for our national territory. If someone says that his municipality has also earned and is also underdeveloped, I say it is better that his municipality does not find itself in such a situation as to finance the security of his municipality from special funds in the budget. It's not a question of local self-government, it's not a question or a population of these municipalities. It's a matter of state interest. It's part of the territory of the highest importance to our country, because it's at the greatest risk of this moment in our country, and these are the minimum resources that we could allocate to finance. In order not to go through the budget, the Ministry of the Interior, so that it would not be in the public interest for Serbia's MUP to use that money for its salaries, we have decided to single out that part and that is why it has been arranged specifically. The domain of state secrets includes the way these services are organized. I don't want us to have to explain all this to the public here, but what's important is that both through the Yugoslav Army and through the Ministry of Interior, there will be a control of the spending of these funds, and that will be the means that will be used solely for the purpose of security in the region. (Employer Seselj, from the post - I have a replica of Garčević's presentation, he mentioned me, he did not interpret...) )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2007	You didn't answer on time. (Employer Seselj, from the scene - It's not true, I answered right away. Will you give me your word? ) You can do the Rules of Procedure, so you can give the replica, as is already standard. No, I won't. [[Emissary Seselj - give me the replica now, so I don't...]] I won't, because you have no right. And report to the Rules of Procedure. Are you looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure? What member? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2008	You know very well, Mr. President, which member, if you deny me the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2009	I don't know which member...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2010	Mr. Garcevic made some remarks earlier, but he didn't understand my reaction well, and that's why I came out. There was no disrespect to what he was saying but to approve and consult with the surrounding MPs in favour of the delivery and additional arguments, and the additional arguments consist of...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2011	Which member of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2012	You say which member, I said I had the right to reply because the previous MP, who spoke, my name, (votes - 96) member of 96, mentioned my name in a context that did not correspond to the actual state and my reaction in the wrong way interpreted it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2013	Is he a member of 96?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2014	Is point 1 ( 96).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2015	What does the group say? He is a member of 96.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2016	What--what's he saying, don't let me teach you the rules of procedure. I voted against that Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2017	All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2018	Are you giving me...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2019	In accordance with Article 96 of Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2020	Are you giving me a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2021	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2022	Here, in this budget project, 500 million dinars are foreseen, as Djindjic explained earlier, for security in the country's security zone. Security matters are carried out by the military and the police. Why the money away from the military and the police? Who's gonna decide that? Can we trust Nebojsa Covic to have him? I was counting tonight, when Sundays, Saturdays and national holidays are turned down, he actually has two million dinars a day. Where does he spend that money? But he can't use that money on Sundays, because they're on the bill, and they can't be paid virally. If he doesn't plan on taking that money in the ready, he'll take it in his hands, in his pockets, in his suitcases.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2023	Please stick to the subject, you advertised the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2024	I advertised the Rules of Procedure and I know why I advertised, and those two minutes haven't expired, because in those two minutes I don't count on your interruptions and my explanations about these interruptions. It would be best if you left, Mr Djindjic - Mr Djindjic says it is best to leave. That's best, he lost his nerve, let him leave, that's a good idea. I don't know where you came from. This is the National Assembly. This is no party. You tried to stop the MPs from talking about the budget and what you threw at the door, it comes back to you through the window. As for what Mr. Djindjic said about this matter (Bate, are you nervous, have you not arrested anyone since this morning, so you're nervous, I see), this money cannot be particularly isolated from the budget to an authority that is not a permanent state body, but an ad hoc body has been formed, or to abolish the police, so Covic can take over all the money provided for the country's security. What are these security jobs that he's going to finance there himself? And secondly, Prime Minister Djindjic is calling for reasons of state secrets. It's almost every day where William Montgomery travels.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2025	Mr. Seselj, you said two minutes, and this is four minutes, please finish your exposure, because if you don't finish your exposure, you're violating the Rules of Procedure and you're insulting this assembly and I'm asking you to stop arguing. If you don't stop arguing, I'll be forced to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2026	He's walking free, and yesterday you arrested General Curcic and this morning the newspaper announces that General Curcic was arrested for giving away the state's secret. Why didn't you arrest the generals who went to a deal with William Montgomery before October 5th?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2027	Mr. Seselj, I take your word. There is a word from the People's Messenger Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2028	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS MPs, I congratulate the citizens of Serbia today, the holiday of statehood of the Republic of Serbia. The current prime minister of our government, Mr Djindjic, in his exhibition on January 25th, said in his final statement that this government is speed, expeditionivity, that we will not lie and that we will not steal. The real speed has given us this government, which we have chosen as MPs, that within five minutes we are talking about a package of laws, six legislative solutions for which this Serbia and how it is waiting and listening to us, to say what we are going to give in this prosperity, for which new power, our new parliament and the new government represent us in the future. The real speed of this I will now try for these four and a half minutes to say, for the sake of that, if the second word in our prime minister's sentence was "expeditivity" - was right and it had been achieved, we would have had this expedition, and after a month of the government's election, we would have had a package of laws, which would have previously explained to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, Serbian citizens and current institutions, which should give an opinion, including the Syndicate, which our prime minister said last night were the loudspeakers. So that I can say something about the budget, as well as about the law package, I'm just going to single out the part that talks about what's most important and what's most important. The most important part is the budget, and the component of the budget is the Agrarian budget. I can say both good and bad about the draft budget. The good news is that the budget, compared to last year's previous budget, has been increased. So the good sides came from what the promoter, meaning our government, has proposed a budget that has 341% higher in mass and because it has reduced the tax method, but the level of taxation -- that's what the citizens will say, when the law package is in place. And the negative sides I'm going to be counting taxing, because it's a short time. These are primarily imbalances in the 22 billion dinar budget, then unrealistic budget indicators, which are primarily planned to produce a 5% social product and a 30% planned inflation. These economic indicators also build on the unreality of the budget. For this reason, I propose to adopt an amendment to one of the MPs, and to balance revenues and expenditures to put those 22 billion dinars on the receiving side, with donations from a foreign factor and from the sale of businesses being put in a new segment, which is an advance payment from NATOagresor, which destroyed this country and made it impossible for this budget to be the way it should be. Our government gets a commitment this way, putting in the income part of the obligation that donors, who have just not come, those same donors who have destroyed all our plants, destroyed agriculture and capacity, have now and the obligation to do so in this part of the imbalance. On the most important thing, and this is the Agrarian budget - on the Agrarian budget, I believe that when the prime minister said in yesterday's speech that we should be up-to-date, that we should cooperate, he thinks that we should work together in such a way as to adopt something and adopt it by the opposition, and I, as an SPS MP, would consider it best not to be adopted, because the people now see that what was proposed, that it is not written well. For this reason, in order to be more cooperative, I believe that the Agrarian budget should be given more attention and the funds should be allocated from that very revenue section, which is debalancing. If 22 billion dinars aren't regulated, then it could be 30% in the Agrarian budget more than planned. For that reason, I'm going to file a number of amendments, so I'm going to explain it. In any case, the government that calls for agriculture and citizens who live on agriculture, not just the citizens of agriculture, living and industry, lives primarily the food industry, and the other industries that follow, how are we going to develop a metal complex if the investment doesn't start? And where the investments are going to start - investments should go where we have our treasures, and our treasures are in this country primarily three segments: one segment of the country, another segment of the forest and the third segment of the water. Whoever doesn't believe that can see for himself and ask these citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2029	The word is Milutin Svedovic, followed by the MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2030	Dear gentlemen, the People's Elections, the Honorable Presidency, the Ministers and Mr. Prime Minister, this budget is restrictive, but clearly separates fiscally from social policy. Also, it is debalancing with 22 billion dinars of deficits, but the deficit is clearly shown and visible. He was pictured to all of us here before the adoption. Clear sources have also been presented from where this deficit will be completed. With this budget, the government also paid attention to the poorest citizens of Serbia, as protection of endangered layers of society will be carried out through the Social Assistance Fund. Practically, it represents the first step towards financial stability. The government and the resolution ministry had understanding of the problems in municipal activities, where they adopted a proposal from the Finance Committee to keep the municipal services untaxed until December 31st this year. This budget has, of course, its shortcomings, which are mostly seen in relatively higher rates of tax on services and the fact that the government itself has proposed some amendments to its own budget, especially in the part of the excise tax package. For other things, I will answer for a word in the debate in particular, but there is one remark for this gentleman who criticises the budget, and they've made budgets before. I'll remind you that we don't have a short memory and we remember what kind of politics you've been leading. This one bill represents four of your budgets in nominal terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2031	The People's Messenger Rada Bajic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2032	Mr. President, Mr. Ministers, honourable MPs, on the moment I received the material for this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I thought the first item would be - the Report or the Law on Budgets for 2000. It's one of the basics of making a budget for next year to look at some of the parallel elements and that it could be planned. However, this was not the case. The only reasonable reason that the budget of the previous year has not been put in place is that it is not to stop the halabuca that was saying where all the money had been poured out and to which the purposes were either purposelessly spent. Budget execution says every account and every sub-account has exactly one dinar where it's spent. Therefore, all these stories would have stopped if this budget had been carried out at this session. As for the 2001 draft budget law, there are several elements that did not allow this budget to be adopted. First, where's the consolidated balance, let's see what kind of social product is predicted, see how much public spending is going to be? It's familiar, public spending takes off or moves away and crosses 50%, and then it's a disaster. I don't see, and I didn't know by now that it could be planned, when it comes to the state budget, that the expenditure and income sides weren't equal. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said "the equation must have a left and right side which must be equal". That's right. It's planned here. It's practically planned to lose 22 billion. Since the state cannot have a loss, it practically means that inflation is planned in that amount. If we add the budgets of public enterprises, then the budgets of funds that will certainly be deficited, the deficit budget means that inflation is planned, and we can only expect an explosion or a spiral of inflation. She can hide the moon, maybe two, but after that she can't. When it comes to the budget itself, there are a few items that we simply have to comment on. The Prime Minister has been commenting on 500 million. I can also accept the state's secret and security of that area. At the same time, I wonder, a billion and 500 million are scheduled for the Homeland Security Zone. I think this could have been planned in those funds, not for the Coordination Body, because when we all read it, we thought - what about Covic? 500 million? To hold a press conference and disabling the public. However, I can accept certain funds, and I knew that funds had to be provided for that area, because that is what the situation requires. Minister Djelic said "all clear and clear as tears, every penny is known where it goes". It won't be like that. On the other hand, there are several items that have no basis at all in legal regulations. These are: a €4 billion fund for transition and a four-billion fund, which is a subsidy to the economy. There's no legal basis for those two funds. However, it was left to the government or to the minister himself. Citizens and MPs won't know where it's going. Then, the 500 million-dollar Development Fund, it's really extremely low or, better yet, it shouldn't have been planned. It's about 15 million marks and it needs to lift one more serious factory to start working. So if we said it's unacceptable to plan a budget with a deficit in advance, who's going to take it on the flat side? All budget users will simply know what number they belong to. With that number, he'll go into his plans and he'll stay at the end of some short sleeves. Who guarantees that the donation will come in that amount. I don't think he's coming at all. Or, that privatisation will generate certain funds, and 22 billion should be accumulated. Then, seven billion were left behind, and it seems to me that's where he says about the railways and the travel industry. You just don't know what percentage belongs to who. The railway can plan for itself seven billion, the travel industry can plan for itself seven billion, and it is in the hands of Minister Djelic to determine who gets what, and they won't know what they get in advance. As far as tax policy is concerned, she must be colored by the social system. It's in every country. We simply tried the amendments to point to this kind of imposition. (President: time. That's what makes me really uncomfortable when someone's warning me about time. I believe that you, too, President, are uncomfortable, but six legal projects are conscious in five minutes and tell us to point out or help them, it's really impossible to do. I just want to say something about taxes. So it's now one hack of 17 + 3 = 20% - sales taxes. I hear they were delayed until 2001. The sales tax would simply destroy utility companies. Some companies don't have an economic price. Practically, they can't settle their obligations to suppliers, and the charge is, say, 40-50% per month, so half of the healthy money has to be paid immediately for taxes, and with that half of it has to work for the company. It is good that it has been delayed until 2001, but it is not good that it will continue then, because as long as public enterprises are not consolidated, until they stand on their feet so that they can invest in their investments themselves, until citizens are able to settle their obligations, the tax on services must simply be forgotten. (President: I ask you to bring an end. There's a lot of pressure on the citizens. They will simply feel as early as April 1st that they will not be able to bear all these burdens. It's a big mistake that five minutes are allowed to say. The Socialist Party of Serbia has indeed come to every legislative project as seriously, professionally, professionally and, above all, domestically. I think that some amendments will show, even the government has proposed some as its own, to help and to reduce these imposes and to help bring these materials really into a situation to be relatively good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2033	Before MP Tomo Busetic, he has the words of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. - Third call. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as contradictory as this text of the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia can be seen from the following indicators. A billion and 500 million dinars are foreseen in the MAP's division for the Land Area of Security. The land's security zone extends from Plav to Presevo, from the Albanian border to the Macedonian border, along the administrative border of Kosovo and Metohija. These are the funds provided for in section 5 of the MUP, and where they belong. I guess, since we're well-intentioned to access the analysis of this budget, that we really need that much money and that our police will spend it in the smartest way, on the other hand, from the federal budget, the military's actions in the same area will be financed. Then why especially 500m for Nebojsa Covic and his co-ordination body for only three municipalities. Especially when we consider that only 80 million and almost 81 million are foreseen for the whole of Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, money is not spent on all of Kosovo and the entire Metohija. The money is spent in the municipality of Kosovska Mitrovica, Zubin Potok, Zvečan, Leposavic, Strpce and parts of the municipalities of Orahovac, Pec, Obilić, Pristina, and in particular the area of Gracanica, in Serbian villages in the area of Gjilan County, next to Vitina, Kamenica, Novi Brda, etc. For all these municipalities and parts of the municipalities, only 80 million, and here for only three municipalities of 500 million. There's no program, there's not even a program to spend that money on. For all other budget users, there is this obligation. When the government was making up the budget, and I've already gained that experience in practice, first all the ministries have rules program, and I guess that's how it was, the commitment programme, so they need for the wages so much, for the material costs so much, they need to finance it, that and that, and finally, the balance of how much money is being put into the draft budget. There's nothing here. Only on the beauty of Nebojka Covic, on his mind, on his desire to get as easily as possible the amount of money. No one alive knows how that money will be used. There are no secrets. The NATO Pact determines everything for you there. William Montgomery himself. Do you think Nebojsa Covic is keeping a secret from William Montgomery? It can only be secrets in front of the Serbian people. Remember that Nebojsa Covic has deceived the people about that agreement he has reached, which now calls a statement or what he already calls it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2035	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2036	I'm sticking to the subject, it's about these 500 million dinars, Mr. President, that it falls into Covic's hands, and I'm saying that it's inappropriate for someone to have money, that for no reason at all, without any basis, without any arguments to support it, that, as from heaven, 500 million dinars. He has deceived our public with regard to the withdrawal of heavy weapons. So the information arrived several days late, and he was later angry with the Witness newspaper, which first informed the public that heavy weapons were being withdrawn. We got into the American machine, the NATO Pact machine, and what surprises are giving us, you'll see. When they organized the Macedonians, whose government served them for 10 years, and especially what they were preparing for us, we can only think. It's not so easy to give 500 million dinars when millions are to be taken from the poor. When it comes to taxing what is most necessary for life and when we know that the government has already doubled our electricity price compared to September of the month, it also announces that electricity will collect by the time the level of five, six dollar kilowatts arrives, and what is the average European price. It's easy to raise prices, but it's hard to feed the poor. The poor woman cannot be fed, if Nebojsa Covic himself can easily spend 500 million dinars, according to his intent to spend, how pleased he is. As many Serbs remain in Kosovo, about 100,000 say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2037	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2038	For those 100,000 Serbs, only 80 million dinars, and for Nebojsa Covic and his hocus experiments, his sale of Serbian interests is 500 million to find him. When it comes to my amendment, I'll back it up with an explanation on 19 densely typed pages and 26 pages of documents to see what it's all about, how he took money from the state, how he robbed it, what all the affairs are hiding behind his name, and you think again about whether a man like that can be trusted 500 million.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2039	The word has the Prime Minister, Mr. Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2040	I'm really sorry that something that shouldn't be a topic of controversy and controversy, which is security in our country, is becoming a subject of cheap demagogy and sowing misinformation. Especially for irresponsible people, it's typical that on those very topics that require special attention and particularly careful treatment, it then moves there with the greatest arbitraryness and things that are incorrect. This topic is sensitive, not only because of the gravity of the situation in the zone, but also because of the international importance, and because of the attention the whole world is focusing on. This way of treating this topic in the Serbian parliament does not really serve the honour of, above all, those who treat the subject in this way. So there is no army in the Land Area of Security from Albania to the Macedonian border under the Kumanovo Agreement signed by the government, whose member was Mr. Seselj, our army is not allowed to be in the 5km zone, but only the police can be in the zone. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: "You're lying"). So that no additional cost of the Yugoslav Army enters these costs, the Yugoslav Army has no right to be in the Land Area of Security. Secondly, it is not true and complete disinformation and malicious misinformation that Nebojsa Covic has these means, and that Nebojsa Covic is any privileged person. I said it was a co-ordination body, which is represented by the federal government, which is representatives of the Yugoslav Army, which is representatives of the Republic government, and on behalf of the Republic government and in that co-ordination body is Nebojsa Covic, who is the chairman of the co-ordination body, but decisions depending on the character of decisions are made in the bodies which are competent by law and constitution to make those decisions. The government established, agreed on the establishment of the co-ordination body and set up a government special programme for the use of these funds, and in Article 12. The budget law is defined by that right. So it's not about giving money to someone for free spending, it's defined a clear program that can't really be published in the daily paper because of the sensitivity of the subject. Based on this clearly defined programme, these funds are being spent. The funds will be controlled, not only by the government of the Republic of Serbia, but by all participants in the co-ordination body, all of which are the official representatives of the state of Serbia and Yugoslavia, who exist and who are in charge of it. As for the budget gap, the part of the budget used for the region, for the three municipalities, is because the security situation is much worse than at the second length of the territorial security zone, which is perhaps 300 kilometers long, and perhaps 350. That part that's critical is 80 kilometers. There are special security measures needed, and they are additional, along with everything Serbia's MUP is normally obliged to provide and what it does. I am sorry that we cannot also talk about Kosovo as such a security zone, where the state of Serbia would invest money. The state of Serbia can pay the police through its budget. There are no police in the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. Ask Mr. Seselj why she's not here. Ask Mr. Seselj and his government how it happened that in Kosovo and Metohija we only have Serbs, and we do not have a Serbian government and Serbian institutions. As a Serbian government, we would be happy to allocate a substantial amount of funds for the state's activities in Kosovo and Metohija in this budget, that those who led the state until December have left us with such a state that it is possible. However, there is no Serbian government in Kosovo today. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Where have you been, traitor? Where were you who saved that country? Thank God you're not looking after her anymore, 'cause as long as it's left, you'd have messed up what you've done with her so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2041	Replica, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2042	Serbian armies and Serbian police are now gone in Kosovo and Metohija because Kosovo and Metohija have been occupied by allies Zoran Djindjic, the same ones who financed his coming to power in Serbia, who gave 300m dollars. So you, Mr. Djindjic, have won along with the NATO Pact, I just assure you that you have won temporarily. It is one lost battle for the Serbian people, but not the final outcome of the struggle. While you're here and your government is ruling all over Serbia. NATO-Pax and this budget is approved and NATO-Pax told Nebojsa Covic that it needs 500 million, because Nebojsa Covic loves 500 million. You're saying there's a secret program in front of the National Assembly. That program is a secret to the National Assembly, but for William Montgomery, it's not a secret, because he wrote it himself. The military of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia entered the Land Area of Security and we saw it on TV and has already arrested 20 or 30 armed Albanian terrorists. The military also entered the security zone 5 times 5km towards the Macedonian border, a combined unit of military and police. The military units involved must be financed from the federal budget. Where Marshal Nebojsa Covic is in command, there are Cypriot terrorists who catch two stray police officers from the 7th Battalion. While Nebojsa Covic was gone, there were deaths of police officers and soldiers, but soldiers did not stray in the field. Someone who doesn't even know the machines step, like Neboja Covic, to command special forces, that certainly doesn't work. I know everything, and that's why you're so angry. As for Nebojka Covic, he called our army and the police, our generals war dogs, and began leading human policy in the army. General Lazarevic, who has a huge war experience and whom all the honorable people in this country respect as an extremely capable officer, to whom no flaw can be attributed, no affair, nothing ugly, is simply ended to command over a special unit outside the authority of the Third Army of the Pristina Corps, taken over Nebojsa Covic and Nebojsa Covic to withdraw heavy weapons of the army and to carry out orders of NATO-Pax and William Montgomery. The man who called our generals the dogs of war should not be a member of your government, Mr. Djindjic, whether you agree with his opinion or not. You may agree, but you haven't made any public statements yet. I'm done. [[President: Three minutes for replica expired.]] You may think the same as Covic, but you must get rid of Covic, because he publicly expressed his opinion that our generals are dogs of war. Our generals, most of whom are honorable people, capable, courageous, who have shown the NATO Pact that Serbia still has an army with which it can be proud and our army is not humiliated. All other parties were for the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija other than the Serbian Radical Party, and the vote was in this parliament. Serbia's government has never decided to accept the Chernomidin -- Ahtisaari -- has never agreed to Kosovo and Metohija's occupation. Your current coalition partners from the federal government, the SNP and the National Assembly of Serbia, agreed, where Serbian radicals were revoted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2043	The word is Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2044	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, perhaps the existing draft budget is restrictive, modest, perhaps it does not provide great hope, it may have to tighten the belt, unfortunately this is because we found an empty register, because the former regime and the former government were not in this country, but was in Cyprus, Lebanon, Singapore, China, everywhere, but it was not in Serbia and every day revealed from day to day. Of course, many will have to bear responsibility for bringing this nation's money to the white world, billions of dollars. I mean the ones who decided where the money from the former register would be. There are, they'll come out, and they'll find themselves in a place where responsibility is determined. Ladies and gentlemen, the total revenues of the Republic of Serbia's 2000 budget are set at 28 billion and 930 million dinars. Part of the revenue from Article 1 of this law in the amount of only 80 million is transferred to the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija. This is the draft budget for last year, a proposal that explained to the National Assembly then, Finance Minister Borislav Milacic, the same one responsible for selling the house to Slobodan Milosevic on Užička Street. The finance minister sold a bazaar house to the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. That's your financial concern. I think Kosovo should never be talked about by those who have allowed power and government when sovereignty is lost over Kosovo, when Kosovo is occupied. Some have sworn that when a foreign boot stops in the world, the Serbian country of Kosovo will never enter the Republic government again. Of course, the dog barks, and the wind carries. None of that was there and what happened happened. As far as the coordination body is concerned, it is the common body of the Republic and the Federal Government. It succeeded with one painful strategy, one good policy, tenacity, diplomacy, that a step by step would restore the lost part of the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, and that sovereignty was lost in the Land Area of Security. In a few days, it will be an integral part of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, under the full sovereignty of the country. If God does, then it is Kosovo's turn and the return of lost sovereignty in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2045	Mr. Seselj, I'll give you my word on the Rules of Procedure. If you step away from the subject, I'll take your word and interrupt the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2046	In accordance with Article 96 of The Rules of Procedure, if, in their presentation at the session of the National Assembly, the Members of Parliament of the Parliament of the other Parliament are offended, stating his name and name or function - it was not, or if he misread his presentation, that was, the MP to whom the presentation relates has the right to replication. You didn't give me your word, even though Mr. Batic brought the lie here, that the previous government had left an empty register.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2047	I still haven't given you my word until we decide if you have a right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2048	Let me explain mine, within two minutes, so you put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2049	No, no, no, before that we have to decide if you have a right to replication. Mr. Seselj, I didn't give you the word to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2050	The previous government left 100m marks in the Belgrade Bank's account.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2051	I take away your word. Mr. Seselj, I took your word. Mr. Seselj, I'm asking you to leave the pay phone. I took your word. I'm interrupting the session. We continue work at 12.40 hours. [[Continuation of work after break - 12.50.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please continue our work. We must first determine if we have the quorum needed to work. Please place your cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We're continuing a joint search. Here you go, Mr. Ivkovic. You're advertising the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2053	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I point to a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 98 and Articles 106 and 98 of Rule 5. Article 98 says - the speaker can only talk about issues that are on the agenda. No one can interrupt a speaker or warn him except the President of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. Article 106 states that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly session are also applicable to all other participants at the session next to the MPs. Article 98 says - that the Prime Minister of the National Assembly is given his word when asked for it, he is not subject to a time limit, and the other members of the Government are given the floor by the President of the National Assembly when requested, and their exposure may last twice as long. Just to repeat, the speaker can only talk about issues that are on the agenda. We had the opportunity to give the chairman of full law both to the Prime Minister and Minister of the Republic of Serbia, but it is a fact that both the Prime Minister and the Ministers of the Republic of Serbia, in their presentations, have strayed from the topic of this session. The theme of this session is the budget. The topic of this session is the debate on 500 million dinars being allocated to the Coordination Body, which are part of the budget, the topic is that we here in the National Assembly have not spoken a word, we have had the opportunity to talk about what is happening in southern Serbia, who has given the authority to act in such a way and it is the fundamental right of Serbian citizens to discuss in the country's highest authority the basic criteria and directions of the government of the Republic of Serbia, their representatives, when it comes to southern Serbia. As for Mr Batic's exposure, I can only say that it indicates, away from the subject of the budget, an incredible intention to put this country's legislative system under forced management.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2054	Unfortunately, your remarks can only be confirmed that, as president of this assembly, they are not such circumstances, that I can fully apply all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and that I consistently apply them. I honestly admit that. However, circumstances are such that most MPs and most of those who stand for the speaker are being violated by the Rules of Procedure. The strict application of the Rules of Procedure would mean practically, evicted to the end, the distance of most MPs from the Assembly Hall. In such circumstances, I do what I can, with constant requests from Members of Parliament, to help the work of the sittings take place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (Employer Seselj - breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2055	Mr. President, it is very bad when you address the National Assembly and say it is not possible to apply the Rules of Procedure literally. You know, the Rules of Procedure are kind of a law. He doesn't have the legal force of the law, he's very close to the law. Smart rule when passing laws makes sure that these laws are not too restrictive, since no too restrictive law can be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2056	Please stick to the agenda and point out which member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2057	You have violated the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, because here you have told everyone that you are unable to apply the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2058	And now the strict application of the Rules of Procedure would require that I take your word again and get you out of the O.R. However, I won't give you the satisfaction of letting you speak as much as you think it is necessary...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2059	No, I won't be for more than two minutes, Mr. President, provided you don't cut my power.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2060	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2061	Having difficulty applying the Rules of Procedure means that the Rules of Procedure are too restrictive. You have, in one way, suppressed the opposition's right to express itself to the end after this address and to criticise the power, how much use the need and how much power should be criticised, because it is the essence of the opposition and the purpose of the opposition's existence, and then you wonder what the opposition is looking for your weak points and weak points in the Rules of Procedure and we are wasting a lot more time than we would lose that the Rules of Procedure are not so restrictive and that all people can say what they want. There wouldn't be 400 amendments today if every MP in 10 or 15 minutes could say what he thinks, if he wants to talk about each of these laws at all. And you six key laws under one debate, then all five minutes, and then you're surprised you're having trouble implementing the Rules of Procedure. Think about what caused these problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2062	I haven't expressed my surprise at all. The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2063	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, the Serbian government's definition of economic policy is based on a projection of the real growth of the social product by 5% and real wage growth by 5%. All of this is in direct contrast with the great announcements of the new government that their arrival will ensure significant growth of the social product and that the salaries will double realistically increase. Of course, this has nothing to do with it. It was just empty electoral promises, as none of those announced $6 billion should arrive only to win power over the DOS in Serbia and Yugoslavia. If it is known in the morning there will be none of those planned 5% growth of the social product or of the 5% growth of real wages. Because over the past six months, DOS has been getting worse than it was before October 5th. It is both on the economic plan and in the area of social policy and on the state plan. When it comes to economics and social policy, prices have been going wild since October 5th. For example, sugar has now increased by 300%, milk by 240%, oil by 180%, bread by 60%. It has accumulated electricity, heating, utility services, and new purchases are announced. The new tax policy, which taxes everything and everything, and even the daily newspaper of these days said -- not only the air, will all reassemble the standard of living of wide layers of the population will collapse even more. That is why we argue that this budget and the entire package of tax laws will be inflatable, with a far higher rate of inflation than the one the new authorities and proposings are talking about. The burden of these new economic policies will be borne by those who have the least, because tax policy is just as conjecture. Tax policy doesn't have any selection. It's all going at the same rate. And for the most luxurious and slave-wide consumption. The same rate is for computers and children's clothes and luxury furniture, and for medicines and other essential supplies. The grey economy, according to us in the SPS, will not only not be eliminated, but will double the new tax policy and economic measures. It is particularly interesting that the amount of funds raised in the 2001 budget will be at the level of 94 and 95, which is somewhere around two billion dollars. How to explain to citizens that after so many years, it means at a time when we've opened up to the world, when we've entered all international organizations, forums, institutions, that it's the same level as when we were encased in sanctions, embargoes, war storms and many other problems. The explanation is free. We put all restrictions on the special accent on the launch of production and these years, 94, 95 and 96, production was constantly growing. The current power of production and its consolidation almost didn't mention it. The creation and growth of the social product is the most important condition of a better life for citizens and cannot be replaced by any radical tax policy or any donations. On the other hand, the world has opened to us only in part to quickly separate Cosmet from Serbia, to speed up the process of secession of Montenegro and to open the issue of Bujanovac and Presevo, but also other issues, such as the issue of Vojvodina and even Sandzak. These days, a people's or people's movement of Sandzak was ambushed and asked Sandzak to be a special region in Yugoslavia, the fifth approximately, and Belgrade is about a district, as they said, so the press conveyed. For us, it is unacceptable for the budget to be inconsistencies, i.e. revenues and expenditures. The expenditures of 129 billion and the revenues of 107, a project deficit of 21 billion, or 22 better said, should be replaced by privatisation, donations and debts. It looks like someone's planning a 100-dollar spending, and there's 80 dinars in their pocket. The government says it put a special accent on health and education in the budget. Obviously, with 42% of the salary growth in education will not satisfy opportunities in education and that this very important area will remain in the seal and in the subordinate position. When we talk about health care, two billion dinars are foreseen by the budget. However, these funds are insufficient, as it is only 10% of last year's total income, which was around 20 billion, and given that sublegal acts will reduce the rate of contribution, those two billion funds will not be sufficient. There's really little time for all these laws. I would support a group of MPs who spoke of these 500 million for the co-ordination body in Kosovo, in southern Serbia (Bujanovac - Presevo), I think it is unwarranted to allocate those funds. It is simply necessary to channel these funds to Serbia's MUP, or the military, through the federal budget, because it is quite clear, Covic has signed some agreements, today and there is a war there in some way, the Cypriots are shooting us all the time, taking away our civilians, our soldiers, and simply, there is no peace and there will be no peace. And finally, this kind of budget proposal for the SPS is unacceptable, because it will foster significant inflation, and the revenues achieved in this way will fall on the shoulders primarily of those who are the poorest. Just another sentence, it's a little off topic -- I think it's a shameful act of arresting Dr. Stakic, and in general, co-operation of the new government with The Hague tribunal. The new government is printing the most embarrassing pages in history.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2064	This really has nothing to do with the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2065	It doesn't matter, but I had to say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2066	The word has been made by MP Marko Culibrk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2067	Honorable MPs, when proposing the adoption of budget laws and accompanying laws, are strategically planned and reorganised by the state, and when the government intends to redecorate relations from the foundation in the state, then it has had to release some opposition prejudices and complexes from that time, to free itself from political whims, to free some non-life and theoretical solutions, as well as some uncritically transferred solutions from more well-established and more developed countries. The first question that the government had to ask, before it started to create a budget, is to look at some life and basic issues, such as: how to live today, how and what to live on in the future, how to increase production and employment and what taxes and imposes that will be able to sustain this society? Unfortunately, these questions have not been asked, and we can say that the people will not be able to bear it and that the people and the economy cannot live on the ministers' promises and expectations, even if it is expert. In addition, since it has not answered these questions, the government is proposing laws that are their own goal, declaring them democratic, global, expert, etc., and in fact nothing changes them. To leave an illusion that something is fundamentally changing, the government has proposed a shock therapy with this law on the budget and a package of laws, and it will be a shock therapy, which will be accused by the former government. Whoever survives it will survive, whoever doesn't survive, it will be his own fault. From the chaos of economic and social, which can arise and will certainly arise, there is no new environment for the development of economy and democracy in our country. Also, before proposing this package of laws and a comprehensive concept of reform, the government had to have the social and political consensus of all social factors. First of all, it has a consensus within it, as the ruling party, and since there is no unity in the DOS, it has the support of the union, parliament and the professional public. She not only didn't do it, she even ignored it. In addition, they should have provided more resources than three billion dinars for interventions at times of crisis, which will surely come. In addition, these disastrous laws also have a non-democratic character, as they are being put into a situation where, above all, citizens and workers are deprived of certain labour rights, and this will later be political rights. I'd like to ask a few questions to the prime minister who's not here and the finance minister. First of all, around the budget deficit -- here is the proposed budget deficit, and Mr. Prime Minister said that everything must be public and transparent, but if it is proposed, let's see how it will be replaced, whether it will be replaced by sales and privatisation, to talk about whether it's fair to sell the most vital economy sort out the budget, so that it goes into the salaries and material costs of the government and its bodies, rather than the development fund, that our economy develops. Then whether it will be at a donor conference, what we will offer for these donations, whether we will offer to withdraw an army of another 200 km, to whom we will deliver it, because, as the minister once said, there is no free lunch in the economy, so there is no free money in politics either. That's what we need to know. Or we're going to substitute that 21 billion with loans -- unfortunately, that's 700 million marks. There's no money in our banks. Either we print money or two months, the government won't fund its budget consumers, because it's so short, exactly in two months. Then why wasn't it suggested here to see how much public spending would be? That's what the government and ministers are running from. By some estimates, it'll be almost 60%. If it can stand our economy - it can't. It is said here that education and health care will be priorities, and we agree, but not only to pay priorities, but simply, why the professional public did not participate in, to see how much education we need, how much university in Yugoslavia needs, how much higher schools should be, who can organise postgraduate studies, etc. So, let's talk about the essentials. Also, in the area of health care, not just health care salaries, but -- why do we need to have a heart transplant at three clinical centres, why do we have to have 10 magnetic resonances in this country? I'd like to say a few more things - why didn't the minister suggest that on the basis of child benefits bonds, and a maternal supplement could be the economy to be relieved of its obligations by 31. 12. In 2000. It would help the economy to dissipate. I'd like to ask -- are the bonds, coupons for those 8 million Swiss francs, bought by the NBJ, were they returned to the finance ministry, to be disbursed? And there's just one more thing -- that's that there's no burden in the economy. With the transition to gross pay, about 80% of the burden is proposed. We now have an 80% load, if we put a hot meal and a regress in the current salary, so there's no unloading. I have another proposal for a minister -- if you can regress (only for this year) for this year, you don't get into gross wages, because the government expects that economic activity to start in the autumn, and we have to pay off the regression mostly during the summer, so it's not a burden for this year. Also, if he can stay in gross wages for at least five years, a contribution to municipal solidarity and housing building -- 1.3%, at least for this three-year period, because the municipalities will certainly not use this right to separate 1.3 for residential construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2068	The word has a National MP Slobodan Pavlovic, followed by MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2069	Mr. President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, my five minutes in connection with the principle debate on budgets and system laws, I will use it the following way. I'll start by participating in the First Radio-Television Programme, as you say, Mr. Vuk Obradovic, a few days ago, the Deputy Prime Minister who is not here today, said, literally, or paraphrase, that God himself sent Minister Djelic to come to Yugoslavia from the West and propose to this assembly, to this people new system laws, a new budget, a new tax policy that he says will be difficult, which will be painful, but we must do so if we want to get even with Bulgarians, Romanians and other countries in the environment. Of course, whoever survives will talk, and whoever doesn't survive, nothing. Mr. Djelic, Minister of Finance, who is nice to me as a young man and an expert, also, participating in the same TV programme, said - I come from the West and what we propose is perfectly normal. I guess for the countries where he came from. He said yesterday that what was proposed is high-level reform, which I won't question. I'm just questioning whether it's appropriate and whether it can be realized on our occasions. In view of what is written, and even more what are the reactions and the people's MPs for these two days in this House, what are the reactions of the Syndicates, the Chamber, what are the reactions of the employees, pensioners and not to mention what, I am not malignancies, be sure, what was happening on the streets of Belgrade, in front of our parliament, in Nis and 10 other cities of Serbia. Apparently, the government's proposed budget and system laws don't hold water and there's no support. I'd like to say that I'm a communal and builder, that both this budget and the system laws, especially those relating to tax systems, look like a building or a house that's made from a roof, where they don't know the foundation, where there's no project, where there's no seismic assessment, where there's no static account, so there's no idea how many floors it can withstand, how many people can withstand tax. I'm afraid that in practice it will be seen as a major earthquake that will come upon the enormous economy and the impoverished citizens. You, as a parliamentary majority, can give criticism to the former regime or former authorities for failures, etc. And that's your right and there's no dispute, that's what those before you did, but it should be borne in mind and the fact that the impoverishment of the economy and the poverty of the citizens is not only a matter of the former regime, but, first of all, of what's been imposed on this country for 10 years, in terms of sanctions of the international community, which has been imposed on the three months of the NATO Pact bombing, and which would, according to that old one, say - what's missing parts of Radivoje, the child of Grujica. You understand child Grujica as a little bigger child, and these are crisis headquarters that have entered companies in various different variants, replaced management, replaced management and stopped and where it could be produced, and now production is gone. With this in mind and the question, does Minister Djelic know, what will be the growth of the social product? Will it be 5% projected, will it be 10%, according to the prime minister? How much will public spending be in this context? We just have our budget. We don't have a federal budget, we don't have a PIO fund, we don't have a health fund, we don't have a social security fund. Will that exceed 50% of the total consumption, which was not, which can bring us much more unpleasantness. Since time is running out, I think neither the budget nor this legal act, especially the tax, can be accepted and cannot be supported. This is, among other things, the absence of a consolidated balance, the imbalance of the budget. (President: time. ) Minister Djelic, provided that the donor conference succeeds, succeeds, succeeds and sells works of capacity to strategic partners, as Minister Vlahovic would say, what if there is no such thing, how will the 20 billion and several billion be taken away from? I want to say two more things. By abolishing the compensation for the use of municipal goods of 5% and by translation into another form, you have prevented something called infrastructure development and facilities. I ask, I am a folk MP from Mladenvec and the city of Belgrade, how will the start of the facilities for which the Republic of Serbia is the bearer of investments, such as: Belgrade's railway node, bypasses, heat pipelines, as strategic investments in the area of traffic, travel industry and energy? (President: Please bring the end. I couldn't mention these examples any further. That's enough. For these reasons, I think neither the budget nor these laws should be adopted. You, as a parliamentary majority, will do so. May God help you and us who need to endure this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2070	There is a word from MP Milos Nesovic, followed by MP Djura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2071	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed members of the Government, the proposed Budget Law is not in line with the expectations of the people, both on the income and on the bulky side of the budget. The government failed to comply with the promises made to the people half a year ago. Tax bonds, those who fill the budget, expected far less tax burden. Budget users, those who practically empty the budget, expected far higher salaries, a more favourable relationship between profits and prices and the like. In that sense, the expenditure side of the budget should have been bigger. It is likely that those who have been promising to count on far larger foreign donations and help and have found themselves in a situation that they cannot do so. As for the revenue side of the budget, it is based on an increased fiscal press and overestimates the economic potential of the population and economy. It is not in line with our country’s economic capabilities, i.e. the largest part of the population and economy. The next reason I think this budget is unsustainable is because the tax burdens on individual categories of the population, as well as companies dealing with major difficulties, are such that they threaten their survival as taxpayers. Whom money will be taken from in 2002, if such a budget threatens the existence of taxpayers in 2001. The lack of budgetary balance, at least in the table section, is causing a suspicion of its reality and the possibility of attainment. The budget promoter is in the gap between the revenue and expenditure side of the budget. The exit was partly found in increasing fiscal pressure on taxpayers. And yet it remained short for 21.8 billion dinars. This fact says there will be a lot of problems in its balance during the year. The main problem here is the existence of a budget deficit in the average household. The state may also succeed in eliminating the budget deficit, but on whom the taxpayer will pass the budget deficit. The proposal for this law, based on current views in the economy, is based on unrealistic plan assumptions about the growth of the social product, the volume of goods and services and the profit fund in 2001 by 5%. As things stand now, not that we don't have growth, but we have stagnation and feedback, at least according to what's going on with me in the King, where companies like Magnochrom, Car Factory, Jasen, Stotex and others have practically stopped and are not working. So no profits are paid, no product and services are carried out, etc. If nothing is done to eliminate the chaos of the economy, the revenue side of the budget hangs in the air. It's been three months this year and we don't have a lot of time and it's practically impossible in the next period, even if things start to get better, to replace what we've lost so far. Unreal planal assumptions about the real growth of budget revenues in 2001 are 19%, because it is based on unrealistic assumptions about the unrealistic growth of the social product by 5% and the overestimated opportunities of the population as a taxpayer. Tax reform is also out of line with people's expectations. The people expected everything else, just not a tax coup like this. It is not true that tax reform will cause a single blow, only to the poorest parts of the population. This impact will include a large part of the population, as well as part of the economy in a more difficult economic situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2072	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2073	It is very difficult and almost impossible to eliminate or partially mitigate this effect with one billion dinars of funding provided for in the budget for social purposes. According to the budget, the state has no intention of taking the risk of operating in the economy, as it is mostly being cost-effective. The government, as a proposer, is talking about discharging the economy. It does, however, express a great mistrust in profit gains in businesses, as the company's profit tax revenues are only 2.2 billion dinars or about 2% of total revenues.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2074	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2075	Thank you. I'll be right there. The state has no intention of taking the risk of operating, with taxpayers, because it takes its own, regardless of the economic potential of taxpayers. So far, many companies operating in economic difficulties have found it possible to overcome these difficulties and pay off the untaxed part of the regress and the warm meal, thus allowing for a continuation of business. I don't think it's time to remove the untaxed parts of this expenditure yet. At the very end, unlike the expenditure side of the budget, which is quite detailed and where a parallel review is given in 2000 and with the application of the structure, there is no such comparative review on the receiving side, with a comparison of height, structure compared to 2000. For this reason, it is not clear enough to restructure tax obligations with taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2076	The People's Messenger Đura Lazic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2077	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs and respected members of the government, the law on the budget of one state is the basis for the functioning of the state, and normally, every government seeks to pass a better law on the budget and a whole set of laws that would help to implement the budget. The government has made efforts to adopt such a budget and such a package of laws in order to implement its programming ideas and definitions. However, my opinion is that this budget is not balanced, that it is wrongly brought and that it is not based on sound foundations. Every budget, i.e. the revenue of the budget should be based on sound foundations. What is most important for the realisation of one budget, because when the government makes a budget, it cares about how to implement it, because, above all, the economy, the functioning of the economy and the creation of a social product is the basis for the creation of income from which social upgrades will be financed. Instead, instead of forcing part of an item to help the economy, which is in an extremely difficult situation, to revive, to stimulate greater production, and to do so through the Development Fund. We have an item minimal and miserable, somewhere less than 500 million planned for the Development Fund. I wonder, of which funds and from which items will the economy be helped on the plan of reviving production and creating the basis for raising funds and filling budgets. Instead, this government predicted and resorted to a more serious tax procedure and, according to counterpart Pavlovic, began to build a house from the roof instead of the foundation. But to get back to this, and many MPs have mentioned this, the term unbalanced budget, and that stands for, the budget's deficit is close to 22 billion. Why go with the forward deficit budget, and when it is known that the Parliament can, on a proposal from the government, rebalance the budget after six months and nine months. These funds that you've provided, through donations, through privatisation, to rebalance those funds and cover it. But there's no such thing, but it's the government's way of doing it. All in all, by increasing tax rates, everything will re-emerge to the citizens. This budget turns out to be seeking to be taken from citizens, and it doesn't seem to fit this government that people have. Everything they have needs to be taxed. When all the items are collected they'll see how much it'll cost them. Many MPs have talked about it, I don't want to repeat it. I would return to Article 2 of Article 4 where the funds for Kosovo and Metohija are foreseen. According to this budget, practically, Kosovo and Metohija have been deleted. It was divided only within the Ministry of Finance, or the fate of people by the authorities of Kosovo and Metohija and the fate of those people who are in Kosovo and Metohija, depending on the charity of the finance minister, of his goodwill. In the past few months, by our Serbian government, Serbs, Montenegrins in Kosovo and Metohija have been practically forgotten, because other than their salaries have been suspended, the federal government has appointed a man to lead a contact committee with UNMIK and KFOR and is aimed at forming a tajcomit. That he is running a special state policy in contact with UNMIK and KFOR, that is, with the international community. So far, this committee that's complete and the man who runs this committee, so that he's a saint, can't get anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2078	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2079	That is why it takes the support of this government and something more significant to be done to help this people who are in those places at all. I'm sorry, and I'll extend if you allow me the president with two more three sentences, to use the Minister of Agriculture's presence, to give one suggestion and make one remark to the Minister of Education's position. I'm sorry, but I think it's necessary. In Kosovo and Metohija, people now live on a wave of agriculture and certain plants, from cooperatives preserved in Serb communities. It is necessary for the Ministry of Agriculture, in collaboration with the Yugoslav Committee, to provide artificial fertilizer, seed goods and oil as soon as possible for these people to sow, so that they have something to live on, because humanitarian aid can't live on. Secondly, I am sorry that the minister of education is not here, I would have one remark, why he allows Kosovo and Metohija's educational workers to sign contracts with UNMIK, and we know that the UNMIK programme was made by Cypriot terrorists and that it is not in line with the programme of the Republic of Serbia. The testimonies that UNMIK gives contain Kosovo's map, and from Serbia there is no "s" in those testimonies, and from Yugoslavia or "j". Are we going to let, will our ministry allow these Serbian children to receive testimony beyond the state of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2080	The word is Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to the floor to try to explain to my predecessor about Kosovo and Metohija and the new government's relations with the citizens in that part of our territory. I'm not going to waste time on replicating what's left of us as the legacy of the former regime. I will not waste the time of this replica to respond to those who condemn us for the special attention we pay to solving problems in southern Serbia. As far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, this part of our territory is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and, by no means, the rights of budgetary users from the space of Kosovo and Metohija are different from the rights of budgetary users from other parts of the Republic of Serbia, except that through this budget and the competence of the resolution ministries special additions are provided for teachers, for health workers, for officials who carry out their work in difficult circumstances in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. As far as the finance ministry, mentioned here, is only part of the funds intended to finance specific costs in Kosovo and Metohija. Special costs include expenditure on funding the national and national minority languages of Kosovo and Metohija, to which we still hold today, and above all that is thought of Gorance. Through these divisions, the funding of those activities that cannot be envisaged at this time as activities which will be particularly dealt with by resolution ministries within the Republic Government. So, once again, I ask all those who, criticising the budget, will try to criticise the part of the budget financed by those budgetary users from the Kosovo and Metohija area, not to be so malignancies that they do not go so far in their malignancy, because they are the very clear competencies of the Republic government and the intentions with which it enters problems in both Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. So it is not true that we have raised our hands from Kosovo and Metohija, nor is it true that we intend to leave citizens in the space of Kosovo and Metohija to care for others. We will take very seriously care of them and we confirm our seriousness through all that we have done so far and through what we are doing, through the existing budget. So 2.5 million German marks are not the funds allocated to the cost of budget users in Kosovo and Metohija, but rather the funds of special purposes that the finance ministry will have. Special purposes are the usual item in each budget, because they refer to something that cannot be predicted by budgeting.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2082	The word is "Frislav Peric", followed by Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2083	Dear MPs, the issue of budgets for this year is the most important issue we will have in this year at the Serbian Parliament. How much we want to pay attention to him is the fact that we have put the budget together with six more points of the agenda and the tax law. Besides, we've cut the time to present the MPs to five minutes, which means something's not right at the beginning, so we want to do these questions for the sake of order. This year's budget depends on the lives of Serbian citizens, and the budget should be the only point in the assembly and every item in the budget should be looked at and discussed. If we had allocated the budget today, it would have been voted, so the municipalities could make their budgets. This is how we put it together, we made a problem, and now we're watching how it ends. According to the Parliament's behaviour, I would like to say, Mr President, that this is not your budget, is not the minister's budget, not the Prime Minister's budget. This is the Serbian citizens' budget, because they pay taxes and a full budget, so they need to be told what happens and what they get from what they get and what they lose. When will the government start working seriously? It proposes an unskilled budget, so when it sees amendments delivered by MPs, then the government invests its amendments in order to correct it, and thus admits its mistake that it did not do well. That's funny, and it looked like it when you buy new pants and take them to the tailor to patch them up and give them five minutes to do it. This budget will have to be filled by farmers. We'll only get foreign exchanges by exporting agricultural products, because that's the case so far, because TVs and the rest of what we produce don't buy any of us anymore. That's why we repay them and thanked them by passing these tax laws and such reliefs for farmers. At least it is foreseen for the Agrarian budget and the least untaxed products are in the part of agriculture. Because of these proposals and view of agriculture, the government may have planned to plow and sow in Knez Mihaylovo, in front of the government and in front of the ministries. The peasants will come to their senses, so at your prices, they'll do it for themselves, with no market surplus. You have taxed on people who possess weapons, and whether this fits NATO's actions, to reduce police, military, arming and disarming private citizens of Serbia. This budget is overwritten by a Western state, so it doesn't practically fit our terms and our environment. In the end, I would like to suggest that all items should be reduced by 10% and increase the Agrarian budget so much. All this money is invested in a farm that could re-charging the budget. We would create conditions for greater food exports that have passed on the world market, provide the foreign exchanges necessary for the functioning of the state, and not to pray and pray around the world, that we can live from our work, that we do what we know best and can do, that we create jobs for everyone, because agriculture is the largest hall without roofing the clear sky that can receive an unlimited number of workers. In this way we would use this piece of land that God has assigned us and that everyone says is the best in the world and that he can give birth to everything, that he can feed half of Europe, and that's why world powers are taking it away from us on many occasions and in more wars that have occurred in these places. We'd stop the population from moving from the village to the cities. At the very end, I want to make another proposal. The funds provided for in the economic budget should be transferred to agriculture in full because the investment in the economy will go to the disbursement or the settlement of debts, and this budget will not benefit either. A cancer patient doesn't need to invest much in drugs when we know he can't survive. The budget also provides for funds from privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2084	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2085	There's always an intruder and a president here, I have to tell you, when the Prime Minister is present, he keeps saying that we're stealing, Ceda Jovanovic says from 10 to 5, and you say it's not the time. The budget also provides for funds for privatisation, does not mean that many companies will make profits sold. Every host in Serbia knows he's not a good host if he sells house and property, but there's no one who sells bread to survive. This example may also refer to our government, if it decides to make a move like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2086	Health Minister Obren Joksimovic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2087	The previous speaker, if you noticed, said one fantastic thing, or amazing, he said - should not be invested in malignant patients. He said - no malignancies should be treated. Ladies and gentlemen, the previous government has done truly amazing things, and among other things, it has been very rich in malignancies. Do you know what that man said? You shouldn't treat cancer patients, that's what he said. They, please, have built an ideology by which the Serbian people need nothing, unless it's part of the SPS or the parties that held power. This does not require any particular comment. It's kind of hard for me, actually, I'm embarrassed to have to comment on these words. Who sent him here, who voted for him, what kind of people think they shouldn't treat those who are sick, who are sick of the most severe diseases in a nation, what kind of man is that? What do we need to talk about here, what kind of budget story is that? Are we finally gonna know what we're supposed to do and what we can't do? We must not play with the people, especially we must not play with what is necessary to these people, which is health. The health of this people, as well as everyone in this world, is the most obstacle category and is shown in the budget as a special and privileged item, although not sufficiently shown in the budget. I'm not happy, but as part of the government, we have to support that part of the budget and that item. Let's not play something that's already come under the influence of the law. Some people have been arrested, among other things they claim, in the indictment, we can see and read from newspapers, that they were just playing with the part of the population that is sick and reluctant. Everyone in this country can express their anger, can protest, can strike and educators, and postmen, and officials, even cops, only a sick man has no right to strike and has no right to express his anger collectively and jointly. So, only in certain cases do we take care of him and talk about him. The previous government has taken care of the sick so much that the relationship between specialists and doctors is 6-1, and we cannot be able to diagnose cancer in time, but we are spending enormously large resources to treat the sick and unhappy. Let's not play with that. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2088	He's got a line, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2089	Dear ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the House of Ministers, it is obvious that the SPS MP in the heat of the discussion, and perhaps because of the ignorance, has spoken something that does not stand. On behalf of the MPs and all the SPS members, I apologize to all those who are in this difficult situation for having cancer. At the same time, I want to say that I understand the reaction of the Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but I don't understand why he uses awkwardness once more, an unhappinessful expression, reminding the SPS that he generally speaks of everyone in this way. [[Applause in the O.R.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2090	There's no replica. Has anyone else answered? As a member of the government, he has the right to answer the word, but not the replica. Did anyone else look for a replica? No, I don't. ) Again he has the word Mr. Obren Joksimovic, as a member of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2091	Mr. Ivkovic, I have to be angry because I am the first man to think about the health of the Serbian nation. Because every day I have too many problems, just because you've spent all the funds and destroyed them. You've been giving percentages that are nowhere in the world, they don't exist, and the different rebates have eaten Serbian health, and that's why I'm angry because I have nothing to get sick people's medicine, we have nothing to feed them, we can't wear them, we can't even buy them soap to wash themselves in the morning when they get up. That's why I'm angry. I am angry and I will be angry until things are right in this country and until we have enough for the needs of even a patient, if we have no other needs. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2092	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic, followed by MP Vojislav Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2093	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I join all MPs who have reached a disagreement with the short-term discussion, because the material we have received for these points of the agenda is heavy about a kilo and 210 grams, and with amendments about a kilo and a half, and if chocolate hadn't been able to overcome it in the last few days, while we were sitting. The first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia marks the most important issues concerning all citizens of Serbia. And if it is known in the morning, very soon the twilight, as the government of prosperity, prosperity and foreign donations will already be revealed in the first step that there is nothing out of it and that it is merely a skillful electoral deception. For the proposed budget, it can be noted, firstly male, its name is a deficit, and it weighs on a record 700 million marks. I did not understand the opening statement of the Prime Minister, although I have been working in this area for 20 years, and if he explained the same to the congressmen, I understand the outcome and the result, as well as the assessment of the work of this government. Elimination and erasure of the basic budgetary principle, the principles of budgetary balance, the axiom for budget-making, supports the fact that the government, whose budget is the basic programme of work and the barometer of policy implementation, cannot carry out entrusted tasks and tasks, as even the deficit budget cannot finance unrealistic expenditures, and some are not even foreseen by law. Before I make any concrete remarks, I would just like you to explain to us how space for deficit financing is narrowing down, if the revenues on the initial proposal are lower by 17%, or 22 billion dinars from the planned expenditures. In particular, what kind of social product will be created in this year, if you do not encourage its creation, but production activity is spinning and is still being spent in the previous year, or the first nine months of the previous year. The participation of public spending in a consolidated balance sheet is easy to see, especially after the introduction of the principle of gross budget, which has been deliberately left out because of unresolved relations with the Federation, and more niggers due to the chaos that will result from greater fiscal intervention than that left over by income makers. The proposed budget has been inflatable, with a new wave since 1 April, because it covers the deficit without primary emissions. It is not clear to me, if it explains that the budget deficit will be financed from real sources of income, the privatisation of 10 billion dinars, as well as foreign donations and 12 billion credits, why you did not balance the budget and give yourself and all government members a clear task of income and realisation. It may be nicer at the source of income that directly enters the budget, sales taxes, excise taxes, transaction taxes, and leave the municipalities to fight to collect their incomes. This budget looks like Montenegro's several years ago, that public revenues are part of consumption only, introduce for consumption, or import for consumption, rather than produce, as shown by the federal government's regulations yesterday, which is a short-term effect, and you will not curb the grey economy and smuggling. As far as domestic economy is concerned, the goal is clear. The faster and the more the domestic capital is devalued, the more it's sold out, the more money in the budget and the more the people are going to crush it very quickly, and after that, we're probably going to eat ourselves. Since the declared decentralisation, nothing but two new budgets. The budget of the AP Vojvodina, the budget of the wrongly called Presevo Valley, as new provinces in Serbia, and Kosovo is not in Serbia either, fell out of the budget somewhere. Vojvodina receives financial autonomy and direct participation in the distribution and sale of assets in its territory, and changes in the judicial system have been suggested (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... ... I'm sorry, the amendments have been suggested in the judicial system, and by amending the Law on Local Self-Government, you'll probably create conditions for its secession. In this negative one can also see something positive, which is the principle of gross budget. All proceeds are in one place, in one well. But it seems to me that the water will drink those closest to it, not those who are most thirsty. It is not clear that the deficit budget in the bulky part provides for some kind of donation. I don't know who. And your promise in the revenue section doesn't stand anywhere, either it is, or it's a April joke. In the end, one serious question. I'm not kidding. You didn't foresee any means to conduct the election, and they will certainly be in this year. It's a hundred days fast. Just about the tax system, we say "not the neck but the neck", that's what we discussed for sixteen and a half hours on the Committee on Budgets and Finance. All burdens are one tax, which is very good. We'll see who can pay, because I can't possibly explain that an egg at the market and a potato is not the same thing as an egg and a potato in a grocery store. This one at the grocery store is more expensive even though it's the same as the one at the market. In the end, one proposal. I would ask the Secretary of Parliament and the President to consider these points and vote on them for the adoption of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, because they have one logical and legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2094	He has the word MP Vojislav Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2095	Dear President, honourable ministers, I'm an MP for the Serbian Unity Party, otherwise I'm a pensioner. The only pensioner in the party, here in Parliament. It is good that pensioners also enter parliament to advocate the exercise of their rights. In my presentation, the particular point is that I advocate the status and social programme of pensioners, so I'd like to present it. We believe that this budget has not been done on an economic and rational basis because it has been significantly increased compared to last year's budget, and this is particularly related to the costs foreseen in it. In our opinion, this budget must be the savings budget. When I say that the costs are high, I mean not the cost of employee salaries, but the material costs provided for in this budget, because this will be a huge burden on the economy that has been working with reduced capacity for ten years because of sanctions imposed on our country. The definition of filling the budget with 90% of the funds to be provided from taxes and excise duties, as it comes from materials, will contribute to taxing those goods that have not been taxed so far, which will pose an additional blow to the standard of citizens, which is still unsatisfactory, which is why I believe will lead to citizens' revolt. For pension and disability insurance employees and farmers, 16 billion 800 million dinars are foreseen. I don't think that's enough for these purposes when it's known that pensioners, who made pensions in the Staff Fund, owe 2.4 pensions based on so-called. an old debt, as well as two and a half pensions whose payment is late. In fact, it is not clear whether these planned funds, which will be made on the basis of the contribution rate, will ensure that pensions are paid on a timely basis, twice a month, and whether large debt payments from 94, 95, or 2.4 pensions will begin. In view of this, when establishing the contribution rate for this insurance, sufficient resources must be taken into account and provided for these purposes, as under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Republic is guaranteed to pay out pensions. The same applies to pensions made in the Farmers' Fund, whose payment is almost two years late. If this is not respected, there will be an even greater delay in pension payments, further exacerbating the material position of pensioners who, without announced purchases, are unsatisfactory. I would add, looking at this material on the budget, that it was singled out, as Minister Djelic himself said on TV, 5 billion 400,000 dinars to pay off the old foreign currency savings. We all know that the state is guaranteed old foreign exchange savings, as well as the pension fund, so pensioners simply surprise us that there is not one item in the budget that one part of the funds is allocated for the payment of pensions which, as such, are the only source of income for pensioners. What I'm saying is that pensioners are one category that is hard to live in our country, that we have 700,000 pensioners who receive pensions under 60 marks. It's very small, and there are also those who receive 40 marks. That's why we're saying that this government, the finance minister, the Prime Minister, should receive, I would suggest, a pensioner delegation that we try to resolve this issue together with the PIO Fund and the Government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2096	The last speaker until the break is MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2097	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, I must say at the beginning, and you may notice that my voice is trembling, that I am frightened and frightened by the discussion of the Minister of Health. He used the discussion of an honest MP, who only figuratively expressed himself, believing that there was no cure for this budget, not for sick people. Secondly, the minister can't, even if he's a health minister who knows that, with this kind of heat and such a threat, address the MPs. It's probably still up to the Secretary of Defense. It's hard to talk for such a short time. We haven't been able to talk about six laws in five minutes, which is less than a minute, and I think we're going to have a hard time saying something more because we're limited by time. We also talked in the break with people who think it might be better not to limit the discussion, not to shorten it, but to keep it, as it says in the Rules of Procedure, for 10 minutes. I believe we'd be working a lot faster because in that case we wouldn't be out of time and the discussion could probably be over sooner. I also pointed out what was going to happen when the Rules of Procedure was adopted. You've seen how many amendments there are today, or tomorrow or the day after. If we hadn't banned the discussion for this second part of the debate, probably so many amendments wouldn't have happened. Here is not the Prime Minister, I'm sorry he won't hear this discussion - he always pointed out with his election campaign that the money would be, only to leave the communists, only that this former regime would go away and the money would be there. I had the impression they were on the border, all they had to do was paint them, and the money would come. What Mr. Chad has repeatedly pointed out is that it's all the former regime-- gentlemen, no more former regimes. You are now a regime and you must do as it is in the interests of the people. You knew what the situation was, and you accepted it, and if you keep thinking that you're pointing it out, it can't be like us standing up for it all the time, whether it was or not. We can't even say that something was good if it was bad, but someone can't defend a career most of the time and can't make a budget at the expense of what wasn't right. Give us a good budget, give us good laws, because we've heard that we have experts, that we have people, that there will be the best laws right away. And what did we do for this short time, how many sessions were there? We've abolished the laws that we've been working on, and now we're working on laws that don't exist. Now we're just passing some laws, and with so many criticisms and objections, not from the opposition, but from the people who voted for DOS, it's already been seen, so I won't repeat it, and it'll probably be seen later. I am in these laws that have been asked on the agenda - which is the goods and which are the products on which the people will not pay various taxes and taxes. They'll pay for everything, everything and everything, for the third time, I say. They're almost gone, so they're gonna pay people for water, for coffee, for medicine, for salt. However, the health minister probably influenced it, because salt is not healthy for those who suffer from hypertension, so it probably did. The only thing I've seen since April 1st is that they won't pay for caviar, if it's not a April joke, then it's good. And how much shall we help the people, lest it be like in France, when Mrs. Mary Antoinette, the wife of Louis JVI, said, If the people have no bread, let them eat cakes, and we shall say, If the people have no meat, let them eat caviar. I said that most of the taxes have been introduced so far, from Milos Obrenović to today, have not been paid. The only thing left is the bridge. You also know in the Middle Ages that they built bridges and where there's no water or river, just to charge the costs. That's what we haven't been able to do, though. No pay is taxed anywhere in the world, as in Serbia. Taxing everything from a warm meal, a house where you live, and a fine for unpaid taxes. Citizens need to know that if they don't pay taxes for the house they live in, they have to pay a fine of 100 to 200 thousand dinars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2098	We'll continue work at 3:30. [[After a break - 15.35 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to establish a quorum. I figure we don't have enough MPs in the O.R., we don't have government representatives. We'll postpone the session in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2101	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would limit my exposure to two questions. One thought was to appoint Minister Djelic and the other, to speak to the Members of Parliament. Mr. Minister, since I'm in front of the Serbian Unity Party to form committees, that's why I've had a lot of conversations with ordinary citizens. Since there is a third child fund with our party, we have had many conversations with mothers and families who have problems, those who have also been submitted in the amendments. I wanted to ask, since we have two cities in this county, I don't think these amendments are fully explained, I think there are about 55,000 refugees, I'm talking about Chačka, Kralje and some other places in these two districts, and since the Ministry of Sports has been abolished, and from these districts I think 90% of top athletes have been created, and a lot of it has been invested, it's going to all go to these municipalities. I think, if possible, that somehow you find at least some percentage of these municipalities to help, if possible, if possible. I know the budget's tight. The second question I wanted to ask, after yesterday's assembly there were many calls from people in these districts, and they were disappointed at the work of this parliament and the behaviour of individual MPs. I think it's about time, it's about 7.5 million voters and we 250 chosen by the people, and I think we should be more responsible and more dignified here to behave. I think we should help this government with moderate criticism, but also by contributing, so that these big problems can be done in the right way. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2102	The word has a folk MP Ljubivova Slavkovic, since Bogdanovic is absent, has an executive board in the City Assembly. After him, MP Borisvoje Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2103	Gentlemen, Government representatives, we have been discussing the draft budget law and tax laws, excise duties and other laws for two days. Mostly, we look back at the budget. Tonight, preparing for today's session, I took a good look at all the amendments that have mostly come from the ranks of the opposition MPs. I must tell you, based on what I've seen, the government has compliments and by the opposition to the proposed budget. In fact, if all the requirements proposed in the budget were adopted, the government had too modestly planned on the bulky side of the budget, at least 15 - 20 billion more would have to be planned for what, based on the amendments, certain MPs were required on the dissipated side. What bothers me in my budget is one single item. After all, I think the budget is well planned. I don't think the item - the means to recover the old foreign savings should stand. It's a matter of state. The state needs to sell its assets and return money to the people it has taken, and that these funds are directed towards the Ministry of Labour and Employment, because I think that the adoption of the privatisation law will create huge social problems, that this law will cause a chain reaction in terms of bankruptcy, liquidation and termination of the employment relationship of a significant number of workers who are employed today. It is unlikely that the budget will not be realised in certain items as planned. Well, we businessmen, too, when we plan our plans in businesses, are not in a position to respect them until the end. I think the budget will be implemented by the end, but the government has to realize a few things. We are entering these laws into the process of reforming the economy, in the process of reforming the tax system. No other thing can be done successfully without public sector reform. I think it must be a serious task for the government, as well as for all MPs, to have a public sector reform plan at one of the next meetings, to define what the public sector is, which is the most necessary thing to finance from the budget, and what is now on the budget, and what does not have to be. We adopted an organization of government and ministries at the second chair. In addition to reducing the number of ministers, I don't think it's more significant to rationalise the number of ministry workers, so when a man who doesn't communicate much with government authorities comes to Germany and enters that building, he seems to have entered a hospital where there's a major epidemic of some disease. I think there are an extremely large number of people and an irrational number of people in the authorities of the state administration and in social activities, especially in health and education. I think it's very serious to think about it and to rationalise it in terms of the objectively needed number of perpetrators working in these areas. Secondly, I think that this budget would be realised, and that is not difficult for me, the government must put absolute control over public revenues, that is, the work of the financial police, the work of the police and the work of Customs. If, gentlemen of the government, your perpetrators, first of all, the heads of the financial police and the police, turn to you in the same way that the head of the federal administration of customs spoke to the republican prime minister, that he is unable to control his service, then surely you will not be able to realise the budget. That's why those who publicly say they can't finish their job should leave. At this time he needs smart ones, but also brave ones, and I think this country has them. We can say, counting on two million Yugoslavs to smoke a single pack of cigarettes a day, that 10 million Yugoslavs drink 15 million coffee a day, absolutely a plan on the side of income in the item is exciseally small and I think with one trial control, primarily excise products, the achievement of the budget plan can be far greater than what was planned. It's probably not going to happen in that part that's planned as a tax on citizens' property, businesses, etc., but in total, I think it's possible to achieve the budget. The next thing, which is also important for the budget to be filled, is the return of the conditions for liberalisation and forgement that ruled in the early 1990s. In the area of the PDO Nis branch, some 13,000 legal entities and 13,000 living jury accounts existed from 1991 to 1994. With the policy she's been led, there are over 5,000 living jury accounts in the ZOP Nis branch today. The 8,000 are gone, which means that 8,000 people are driven into the gray economy. Someone remembered, so he thought everyone should, both poor and rich, and I don't know if he's smart or not, that he has $5,000 to start a company, that he should have an office, a space, etc. The state needs to create conditions for anyone who wants to work to be controlled, not for the purpose of setting up previous conditions and thus creating a negative atmosphere in terms of injury. If, in one such way, one liberal approach in the category of freedom of governance is achieved and one proper decentralisation is carried out and, above all, by taxpayers, I believe that this budget can be realised and, in that sense, I am supporting it on my part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2104	The word has a folk MP, Borisvoje Mijatovic, and after that, MP Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the draft budget law and the accompanying laws that are ahead of us are the first major step of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to present itself to us and the public. This should be viewed as a prototype of a budget that, for the first time since 50, 60 years, works in the right way, to be what they say, transparent, to be fully open to the public and fully visible and to be compatible with such similar budgets that are now being done in modern countries, and above all to the European Union. So it's one of the steps in approaching our country to the European Union. So far we've had a case that what was called the budget, it was some kind of set plus minus that was spent and transferred over the year. There was no idea where it was taken from, and it was simply such a manner that it had ruled before 1990, with the real one, to say, the stampede to chaos, not until after the arrival of Slobodan Milosevic's furniture after the 8th session, etc. What's important is to point out here, which is that this budget will, in any case, make it possible to provide funds for wages, pensions, etc. to be paid regularly, and also to provide policy priorities, such as health care, such as education and the reorientation of those unemployed, which will have to be re-qualified for companies that are not yet able to stand on their feet. The privatisation process will progress smoothly and allow us, too, to develop the economy, no matter how much this budget will have facts on it in this respect. I must say that the problem of financing Kosovo is a delicate issue, because in Kosovo, the situation is what we now have and which thanks to DOS policy, i.e. the government's policy for the first time in years has become acceptable and has become cooperative with the international community, which gives the first results. In that sense, I think that the item that is set aside and attributed to Nebojsa Covic, president of the co-ordination committee for southern Serbia, is overly maligned, as it is clear that it is not the money he has for his personal needs, but rather the money for the security of the region. In addition, the way he has led the country's policy in the southern Serbian area has given its first positive results. All that is happening down there with Macedonia and the functioning of Albanian terrorists shows that the international community is still turning towards the country's policy, which is currently recording good results on the outside. I can accept what has been said that the Yugoslav Army, which has now entered the entire area of the land zone around Kosovo, between Kosovo, Serbia, Macedonia and Montenegro, is proving that we have restored that sovereignty.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2106	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2107	It is not good that Pavkovic, Lazarevic, who is known to have been the policyholders of Milosevic in Kosovo and terrorism, appear there, because it is certain that they are causing the dissatisfaction of those there.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2108	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2109	In this respect, I fully support what Nebojsa Covic said about them. I can tell you something else, I was called last night by the parents of ten soldiers who were left in the Dry River on June 10, 1999, and no one came to pick them up, and today, they don't know anything about these soldiers. The Yugoslav Army and the General Staff have never spoken of it, nor have parents met in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2110	Mr. President, you were obliged to warn this MP the moment he said he was in Kosovo and Metohija....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2111	By what member?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2112	You keep your mouth shut. You're not even an MP. Shut up, you go over there and talk about it with Chanka. Always after a break, you come in drunk and interfere with your work here. First, to be clear here whether a terrorist policy is being conducted in Kosovo and Metohija by the federal state and the state of Serbia or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2113	Mr. Seselj, don't lead the controversy, you've reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2114	Please, I'm asking you a question, you should have warned him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2115	I'll give you an excuse, but don't enter the dialogue. Here you go, okay, one more sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2116	Mr. Martian, just one more sentence. Since that MP, as I was informed, is from your party, the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2117	It's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2118	From the Democratic Center. I thought Zechariah Trnavcevic was from that women's association in black, after all. But here you should clearly express your position as speaker of the assembly, and I insist on it, whether in Kosovo and Metohija, the country's official government has led a terrorist policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2119	The People's Messenger Stanko Kovacevic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2120	Honorable MPs, respected members of the government, the Republic of Serbia needs today or tomorrow, and at the latest on Friday to get the first real budget showing all that one budget should contain, and the government of Serbia has promised all users of the spending, spent foreign budgets that they will be able to have insight into all their rights and their achievement. We have had opportunities to develop a large number of MPs from the right bloc and left bloc, who have criticised such a budget and a package of tax laws in the past two days, saying that it is too high, that the burdens of citizens and businesses are too high. But when they talk about the bulky side of the budget, immediately after that they propose to increase this item by 100%, increase this item by 100%, this one by so much percent -- and they forget to finally say how much the tax burdens will increase if these proposals are accepted. So high tax burdens this budget cannot be filled, they say, because the people have no money, the people have poored, as one MP said, naked as a gun, the economy is broken down, the economy is not working, so there is nothing to make their contribution to this budget proposal, but on that occasion they forgot to say that they just robbed this people, that they just destroyed this economy, that they just had this people fight with the whole world and caused war operations, that they were precisely the ones in the blood and sweats acquired by the Federal and Republic governments' housing funds to disintegrate and divide their own thinkers and themselves. They can't say that here. And in general, it's a matter of human morality, how he can go out for this pay phone and criticize, and he's aware of the fact that he's guilty of all this. Two or three MPs went out for this pay phone and using a cost-effective budget item, about 500 million dinars intended for southern Serbia, attribute that the individual will use it, both unrealisticly and unfairly, and unfairly, inhumanely attack the personality of a man, who has been talking down to terrorists for several months each day with his head in a bag, with representatives of the Albanian minority and with representatives of the international community, to save himself from what you have mutilated and made this people unhappy. One representative of the Socialists in the Committee on Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs or the Committee on Industry said - if we want this government down as soon as possible, let's vote for this budget - and I suggest that you, Mr Socialists, vote as soon as possible for this budget to create conditions to bring down this government. And I would suggest to our government and ministers - don't do your job for patriotic reasons. Do your job out of your own interest, out of interest to the citizens of Serbia, because you will make the best contribution to this nation and this country's progress. Don't be patriots as patriots from the previous government, whose chairs we'll soon have to cut to get their patriotic stomachs into MPs' benches.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2121	Is it because of your stomach?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2122	I don't know, Mr. President, what you're like and whose stomach you mentioned, but after a statement from some DOS MPs from this pay phone, I think a lot of honorable people have turned their stomachs. I am reporting for a replica regarding these unbulful statements in the defence of Neboja Covic and his budget items. That's Covic's budget item. The 500m dinar budget item of Covic is enough to cover the annual budget of 50 small municipalities in Serbia. Shut up, Vesenov, you're drunk, don't talk here. I answered the line. So, you DOSs are so broken that you lose patience, nerves, heads, that's nice, that's what I've been waiting for. Allow me, Mr. President, to finish the replica. Five hundred million dinars are the annual budget of Cačka, Užica, Sremska Mitrovica, Požarec, Pancheva, Kruševac and Jagodina. When the annual budget of the four cities is added together, it is the amount Nebojsa Covic received in his campaign marres the interests of the Serb people and hand over his country to the NATO Pact. You can say whatever you want. This is the participation of municipalities in absolute sales tax per year. I know exactly what I'm saying. That's the municipal budget. What you think also falls within the municipal budget are items that show up in special accounts. You should know that. Nebojsa Covic is given an amount that is enough to pay all children's allowances in Serbia for one or one and a half months. That's how much you give one man for an imaginary organ that doesn't have a legal basis. Secondly, Nebojsa Covic, at the head of the body, has made agreements, recognises terrorists as the negotiating side, and the content of those agreements concluded by Nebojsa Covic has not been verified by any official state body, which has been authorised to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2123	Gentlemen, I ask you this: first of all, there is no debate here on Nebojsa Covic, here is a debate on the budget of the Republic of Serbia; secondly, when the MP challenges the replica, then the MPs are obliged to listen to the one who replicates. If some MPs do not care about what the subject of the agenda is, then they must recognize that other MPs do not sometimes take care of it. So, one side cannot make this parliament a parliament, and the other side of this parliament a circus. Only all of us together can make this Parliament what it needs to be. If no one, no side, does, we'll never make it. You are obliged when you challenge the replicas to listen to this replica, and we are all obliged to stick to the Rules of Procedure. If no one's holding on to that, then we won't do anything. Please stop the debate on Nebojsa Covic, he is not on daily work and to focus attention on a package of tax laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, here on several occasions during today's session, the Rules of Procedure were injured, and Article 96, you gave the gentleman a line, and there was no room for that. Then, Article 99, because the predecessor was so insulting to Mr. Secretary, that no one really has to suffer that verbal torture. Please, Mr. President, act on this Rules of Procedure and, if necessary, sanction such verbal performances and tortures. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2125	As on many occasions, I am obliged to answer you. As on many occasions so far, I accept that as President of the Assembly, I have violated the Rules of Procedure. But I have already said once that it would mean, let's say, an oral warning to you because of the adjudication of an apostle who speaks, because you are not in charge, but only he who presides, that he may warn him. Also, let's be completely open, if we start having this debate, Mr. Minister can't throw a MP, no matter what. that the apostle abuses the speaker and demeans the congregation. [[Applause in O.R.]] When there is a circle of abuse of this pay phone and no one on one side of the MPs adheres to the Rules of Procedure, then what you are proposing cannot be fulfilled. I admit it openly. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: But the minister has excuses because he is drunk. Mr. Seselj, I can only ask you to stop demeaning the congregation and nothing more. I said I wouldn't give you the satisfaction of doing what you need, which is to get out of this room, but I won't give you the satisfaction, and I'm asking you to stop throwing it away. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Replica? There's no replica, I'm not at the pay phone. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: You mentioned my name. ) (Milisav Petkovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure? According to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2126	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, I am Milisav Petkovic, the People's MP of the Democratic Party. I report for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 101, where it is said: "The warning is given to the MP who approached the speaker without permission" etc. And one member says, "If he uses swearing and insulting expressions." The president will not deliberately give a second warning, which means the distance of the one who violated the Rules of Procedure from this room. If he'd done it, there wouldn't have been a throw on the other side. I do not belong to MPs who have been dropping and reporting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, to be given to vote whether MP Vojislav Seselj has violated the Rules of Procedure, to allow us to work normally until 7:30, so that this budget, which Serbia expects, is voted tonight or tomorrow. If we continue the controversy over the breach of the Rules of Procedure, any MPs, any group, we will not end this for another three days. Mr. President, I ask you to put this to a vote, to determine if there were any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, if it was a second warning to Mr. Vojislav Seselj and to take him away from the session. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2127	As far as I know, the second warning does not mean automatic distance, but after two warnings, the Assembly declares it. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Now I am mentioned, will you give me your word? Here I am studying the Rules of Procedure. In Article 101, if you allow me to respond, in Article 101... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Do you give me the right to a replica? When this is over, when we elaborate Mr. MP's remarks. Therefore, Article 102 states that the measure of confiscation of words is expressed to the MP who has previously been given two measures of warning, and subsequently makes it an infringement from Rule 101 of this Rules of Procedure. A step away from the session, that is Article 103, says to the MP who, after measures taken to take words, interferes with or prevents the work of the sitting, does not respect the decision of the President of the National Assembly - this is an expression of the measure of confiscation of words - or continues to commit other violations within the meaning of Rule 101 of the Rules of Procedure, as well as in other cases to this Rules of Procedure. Therefore, your proposal cannot be put to the vote. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Yes! ) Or perhaps I can put on the vote your request that the Assembly determine whether there has been an injury, but a member whom we have not considered, I mean Article 101. Please let us be clear about this. (Milisav Petkovic, from the post: I give up the vote. You're giving up? Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Do you now give me your word? ) On what basis? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: he spoke uglyly of me. If I don't give you my word, you will according to the Rules of Procedure, right? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Yes. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2128	I really don't know why there's so much hate and anger for no reason. I did nothing to offend Dragan Veselinov, as minister. I was just realizing what everyone saw, that he came to the session to continue being drunk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2129	Mr. Seselj, you're really exaggerating.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2130	There's an elegant solution, Mr. President, let's from here to the door go in the right line and keep his hands in front of him like this (shows how to hold hands), so if he realizes he's not drunk, I'll get out. If he realizes he's drunk, he can go home and cut himself open.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2131	Mr. Seselj... (Vladan Batic, from the place: As long as we have fun like this, he should not be given a word. That's what you'll do when you're president of the assembly, that's what Mr. Seselj wants. It's clear to me what you want, I said I wouldn't give you pleasure and I think it's much simpler to listen to what Mr. Seselj says. It's clear to all of us what this is about, and to those who are watching, and to listen, and to let those two minutes go, I think it's much more reasonable than to respond to violence. (Mihajlo Markovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2132	Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. President, allow me to question your judgment. You can make a mistake in your judgment. The current course of the session shows that you have lost much more time in your discussion with the MPs and in what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and for me it is crucial that we waste time and that you talk to the MPs who sit opposite you. I once warned that it was past the time of the blatant rule of socialists and radicals in this country. It is that we have not yet proven it as DOS, but it is not a sign that you do not have at least the elemental courage, and we as MPs and you as chairman, to oppose it, just to be aware of it. He can't throw you an MP, even if he's the head of the parliamentary group. You can't answer him, and you can't give him a word whenever he asks for it, because we're going to suspect both of you in bad intentions, and I'm going to suspect that you're causing not only my patience. If you cause my patience, then it will be bad for the MPs who do so in this assembly, especially for the radicals and the socialists, but also for you. Why? I've come to do my job here with honor and honor. Your request to respect the legality of this assembly and the MPs of the opposition will apply at some other time. Legality is for that kind of opposition that's here from intent and obligation and that does some public work in the general social interest, but it doesn't sit here so-called. Legal opposition. Here you sit the cause of everyone's ruin of this society for the past 10 years and we see it every day, whether with 6-7 or 10 criminal charges, prosecutions and arrests. We haven't been informed of that. So here, in addition to the budget, we have an elemental cause for the failure of a society, and I have warned that the MPs of DOS, besides the majority in this House, must be more aware that, in addition to the provisions of the budget or giving reasons to the opposition and the public why they vote for this budget (President-time), they must from time to time and remind why, and why we are in this situation and remind the public who is watching this assembly why we are so failed as a society, why we are so miserable, why we have lost all the criteria, why we are not disciplined and why this is happening to us, that we can't have a single session that we have normal. So, apply the sanctions. Maybe it's your assessment that you'll do me a favor. Do me a favor, I'm sitting in the back, I'm gonna do some more favors in the replica and discuss it, but don't do this anymore, let's have a sitting session straight, let's do our job, let's go, let's come back tomorrow. This issue of budgets is much more a matter of state affairs than our relations here in Parliament. Thank you. So, I think you've made a mistake in the assessment, and it may even happen that you're breaking the Rules of Procedure as chairman because you're talking to MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2133	It's hard for me to answer. Mr. Markovic,.... You'll get a word in the Rules of Procedure. I don't have a dialogue with MPs. According to the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to respond to all those who object to the violation... Don't yell from the scene, according to the Rules of Procedure. So you have not objected that I have violated the specific provision of the Rules of Procedure. All that you've been saying is one political approach, one objection to how I run these sessions. The only thing I can suggest is that you apply for a resolution of the President of the Assembly, point out those reasons in writing, and then let's decide. That's all I can suggest. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will call on Article 99. The Rules of Procedure, which I and my predecessor are now talking about, are that the MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Temperation and that they are obliged to address one another with respect. During my presentation yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, there's an atmosphere here like a hordeslon in an O.R. You made me yell at this phone booth. ....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2135	Wait, you're talking about what happened three hours ago...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2136	The conduct of the MPs of the people and that you have not once warned the messengers to violate the dignity of the congregation, that they may interfere with the messengers when they come for this address, and that they want to make their views known in the matter of the laws on the agenda. When they hit hands on tables and interfere with speakers, you also don't react or take a break. Here we are accused of obstructing the work of the Assembly, and twice delaying the beginning of the session because you cannot secure the quorum. President, you have to admit that you are incapable of leading this assembly and resigning on your own, not looking for your shift here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2137	And since you, if I were to answer you, objected to the violation of the Rules of Procedure that occurred yesterday, if I understood correctly, I would ask you to think twice as quickly and react. As for holding the session, please join Mr Markovic and together write out a motion to resolve the President of the Assembly and point out the reasons and to bring this up. And now I give my word to Mr. Alexander Vukic, and then to the People's Messenger, Nenad Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2138	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, following everything you've said, Mr. President, and the others who went out for this pay phone, it seems to me that much does not correspond to the truth, above all in the conduct of certain MPs. An MP came out here who said -- the people look forward to this budget, and we won't finish until 7:30, and that's the meaning of the Serb Radical Party's pay phone. The people are so eager to wait for this budget that there are demonstrations in all the cities of Serbia, that people don't know what they're going to do with themselves, they're listing where and what they're going to pay taxes on. And as for whether or not we'll get there, I'll remind you, Mr. President, that we were in this room, but there were no 60 or 70 MPs of DOS, and DOS's MPs were 177, and that's why we postponed the session twice today. This was just an observation, to see who was really responsible for what was going on in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And now I'm going to tell you that there's one significant fault of making us radical because of everything that's going on in the congregation today. Especially what happens to the draft budget and other legal acts. It's all our fault. Huge, because it's our fault, among other things, that you came to power. What are you in a position to propose such legal acts? Which you are able to convince us that these reforms are, that this is what is positive, that this is what the people have been waiting for. Yes, it was Vojislav Seselj's fault for a tax of 100 dinars, because it was a minimum that could be taken from the people, but you doubled that fee. You said, I'll remind some of the ministers, and I won't fool myself, said Mr Batic, I've even recorded it in tone, you'll immediately cancel that tax when you come to power. Not only did you not lift it, but you doubled it. It's Shessel's fault, and it's our fault, because we haven't explained to the people how much you make it up, how much you fake it, how much you lie. You were talking about trophy weapons, hunters, problems. You've raised taxes and taxes by 1,000%. A thousand percent. Who's to blame? We're guilty because we haven't explained to the people that you're lying when you're talking about six billion dollars. We're guilty because we weren't convincing enough. We're guilty because we didn't tell them there wasn't any of it and we didn't do it a million times, how many times did you tell that lie? It's true, maybe someone wouldn't believe us, to answer those who earn. Not a million times, because we couldn't repeat it a million times, because you then controlled over 60% of the media in the opposition in a non-democratic, totalitarian and autocratic regime, and today there is no single opposition newspaper in Serbia. Nor is there a possibility that someone would say to the people in such a way what would happen and how it would happen. I don't have that kind of problem with you throwing away. With threats even less. I'd like you to try to make those threats come true. I'd like to see how that goes with your hand. I'm surprised Mr. President didn't warn those who did this before, and he warns those who speak notorious facts, those who are obvious to everyone, and he's going to say no, that's not so, but it's primitiveism, or I don't know what it is, the MPs of the SRS. What is clear to all of us in this congregation. We are also guilty, when we talk about the budget and the tax laws, we have not told the people -- yes, they will get that money by arresting everything that is Serbian and handing it over to The Hague tribunal, and having their father go to his son's primary school for a parent meeting that will then criminally arrest a man and send him to The Hague tribunal. To make certain conditions come true and get some church girl. Which they won't get either. That's why we're guilty. We are guilty of letting this happen in our Serbia. It's our responsibility, among other things. But there's one thing that's good at all that we're guilty of and responsible for. It's that our people would never see it and they couldn't understand what it is and how bad this government is if you hadn't come to power. You could say a hundred more times that there won't be any taxis, that there won't be any taxes, that you'll end everything, and now all of a sudden - let's see, if any taxes are lifted, they can't pay to be big. And that wasn't the case before.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2139	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2140	I have to tell you one sentence - in the fifth minute, for exactly 5 minutes you warned me, many of them said up to 7 and 8 minutes, you didn't tell them, many MPs, but it's a good sign to me, means that what I was saying hit you, means that it bothers you what I was saying and that it's true what I was saying. I'm going to say one more thing for a little while. I won't hold you back. I think that all that is being adopted today, folks, because it can't hear through the media either, we don't have time to explain in five minutes, soon it'll feel on its skin, it'll feel when it has to pay for electricity, it'll feel when it has to pay for the utility, when it has to register for vehicles to pay, whose taxes are multiplely increased, it'll feel when it pays for the phone and everything else. And then it will only be clear to people what you've actually been doing and how eagerly they've been waiting for this budget. It seems to me that the only thing we can do at this point is say that our guilt, which really exists because of everything I've been talking about today, can be corrected in one right way, in a good way, and that is to make the best possible political management, to explain to the people in the fastest time, what is happening in our Serbia, to explain to him what a global DOS fraud is, to go through Serbia, to start from village to village, to start from town to town, to talk to the people, to explain to him and to bring you down from power as quickly as possible. That's what's most important right now for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2141	The word has a folk ambassador, Nenad Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2142	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is perfectly normal for opposition MPs to criticise the draft budget and criticise the proposal of all these tax laws. But it's not normal for them to behave like a bar, it's kind of an abnormality, but we've already learned that in some other congregations, and that's true in the Republic Assembly, and obviously, we have to get used to the way some people behave. What is also quite clear - that the budget, as planned, must cause proper disdain for those who have been in power so far, because they know that the former budgets, which they have made, were such that they could do anything, that money could be hidden through these budgets, that it could be used for what it shouldn't or wasn't planned to be used. And of course, this budget really pisses them off, because it makes everything clear. Otherwise, the money is clearly defined in it -- how it's going to be spent, what it's going to be spent on, who it's going to go to. Of course, it must be annoying, it must cause anxiety with the opposition MPs, and that's good. Of course, transparently, that's what you've never understood and you won't understand. So, as far as that goes, that's clear. As far as tax laws are concerned, this situation is a little more complicated. Tax laws are such that they will finally prevent theft. The theft will no longer be, because taxes will not be used, either tax relief, or tax differences, for manipulations. You have today in these amendments, look at a very interesting example -- there's some alcohol used in schools. On this one banal case, you can see how the entire tax system used to work. It is required that those who use that alcohol for school be released, that they do not pay taxes. There's also for school, there's for health care. I was particularly entertained when I saw that some people felt that alcohol was being used in medical schools and that is why taxes should be released. Therefore, why is this done - it is done for a simple reason, this tax should be freed for example. Health or school, so that a hundred liters of that alcohol can be transported through some of my, or your businesses, or their businesses, you know very well who did it. We who didn't do it listened and taught us, some who knew how you did it. So this tax reform is really fundamentally important for us to become a normal state, to become a country where people behave the way they behave everywhere in a civilized world. Of course, in order to do that, we're going to have to have some part of our uncivilized population to make them behave civilizedly, we're going to have to make them respect tax laws, we're going to have to make them pay for everything, and there's going to be a source of those couples that, so fantastically, as they've been doing, they haven't been able to get rid of. Then it will be clear why the budget is as planned, as planned. It can be achieved, and then it'll be clear why some don't understand what the budget is, why some don't understand what the components of the municipality's budget are. They're the ones who, of course, know everything, and when they come out for this pay phone, they show they have no idea anything. Therefore, it will be clear then that local self-government will now have more money than ever before. If this is well analysed, local self-government will see that this tax policy and this budget approach will allow them to do what they could not do so far. I can only illustrate it with one example, and that will end -- Belgrade has agreed to the Republic government's policy, that there are no more taxes than 3%. We think it's okay because we're always, and while we were opposition, we thought a single tax policy was the essence of a serious country. So there are no special taxis, special taxes and everything. But without that 3% fee, Belgrade will now have money in its budget as if it had a 3% tax on the previous tax system. Of course, I've explained this before, and I can, especially if you want, I can especially explain to you, if you don't understand, there's no problem. Therefore, if Belgrade has managed to be at least the minimum of the budget since the previous year, it is certain that all municipalities and cities in Serbia will be in a far better situation. I'm sorry, I overstepped my time simply because they threw me away, and I'm not the kind of guy who can always shut up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2143	There's a word from MP Dragisa Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2144	Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, these days, when the adoption of the budget, or economic laws, is on the agenda, is very difficult not to talk about, not to tie these economic laws to some political issues. Otherwise, I come from Kosovo, and I will talk about this problem on both the subject of the budget and the package of tax laws that touch Kosovo. All of these colleagues and gentlemen, who have been here so boldly defending Kosovo and standing up for Kosovo in this hall, and may also be in Belgrade restaurants very nice to defend Kosovo and help it, have called on them to come to Kosovo Mitrovica, if they can't move on, and to join the people there, to tour, simply, day or two, and to eventually, if anything else, return. If there's nothing more they can do, even if they can bring in a TV crew or a news crew, at least take a picture there, with that poor and distressed people, who live very hard and very hard down there. Therefore, I would not like to be defended in Kosovo anymore by those who have defended us so far. We know how we went from those defenders of ours, how we were defended. What they did, starting with Joseph Broz, through whom I do not want to mention the name of those who helped him in all this, is one disaster, one situation where the province of Kosovo and Metohija, where the Serb people and other non-Albanian communities, were found. In this new government, the DOS government is tasked with correcting what they have done, such a catastrophic state that they have left behind. It has to be fixed and it has to be fixed. It is a great effort, and in this direction I appreciate the commitment of the new government and young Minister Djelic to one of the great efforts that has been made to draft this budget and this package of tax laws. Maybe there's something there that can be fixed, dressed up. There's the amendment, there's the rest. What I'm trying to say about this is the question of the Temporal Executive Council, so-called. PIVK, led by Zoran Angelkovic-Baki. It's a body that still works today. We didn't see anything on the subject in this budget. I know the adoption of the Kosovo Interim Executive Council's final accounts is yet to come, and that is also the obligation of this assembly, because, unfortunately, there is no other authority to adopt it. They still have material-technical resources today. We'll see how much they spent in that budget and how they're going to plan the funds that will be spent this year in this budget. Simply, someone mentioned here that there is a certain level of local self-government in Kosovo. There is, and that is the level of local self-government, which unfortunately is controlled by the remains of the old regime, and that is what must end through this assembly. Simply, you can't take money from the budget here, from this budget that we're talking about, and you can't organize a bus ride to keep watch outside the house on Užičko or Tolstoy Street. So it's one job to do. I don't know what article it will be planned under, and I think the government must consider the item that an exiled Serb people to Kosovo and Metohija must be returned. If we expect him to return Thaci or Kouchner or anything like that, we'll never see it coming. Unfortunately, it's our responsibility, our government, because that's all we can and must do. Then a point must be foreseen in that direction, that the funds from certain items are directed in that direction, because you know what the situation is, everything is set on fire, everything is destroyed, and it needs those who can and who want to go back to where they can go. Unfortunately, there are some places where, with the effect of many working together, Serbs will never return, but the item must be found. One more thing I'm going to say, I haven't seen in the amendments, I think there are people here who are in charge of base production, raw materials, etc. I think the item for geological research is very small. I'm saying this as deputy director general of Trepce from Kosovo Mitrovica. You know our investment in the orphanage was abandoned. In this direction, I want the Serbian Government to initiate the adoption of laws on geological research, where this would be widely addressed, both geological research on ore and minerals, and in oil and other industries, because it is a very important plan and programme.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2145	The People's Messenger Stevo Dragisic has the word, and after him, the Messenger of the people Dusan Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2146	Ladies and gentlemen, the budget and several tax laws, which go along with this budget, have caused great dissatisfaction in the people. The government is aware of this dissatisfaction and, from what we heard from the Prime Minister and the finance minister, we can conclude that the awareness of this dissatisfaction is really clear and that in their speeches they tried to justify such a sharp tax rate. That dissatisfaction has two reasons. First of all, it is a dissatisfaction that taxes are so much higher in the first place, that the burden on taxpayers will be much higher than it has ever been before. The second reason for dissatisfaction is that, we acknowledge, a large number of citizens, voting for DOS, believed all the promises that the coalition made to voters before they came to power. Among other things, this coalition has pledged to abolish the tax, fiercely criticising many tax laws and laws that were introduced by the assembly in the previous assembly. That's when some taxes were called "Seselj's taxes" - mobile phone tax, on vehicle registration, not to mention everything else. The "Seselj" taxes, which were the main criticisms of the opposition parties at the time, have now survived and have increased the amount that citizens are now obliged to pay on that basis. The second cause of dissatisfaction is fraud. The current government, while the opposition, cheated on the people to abolish taxes and thus improve the position of citizens in that basic existential sense. In addition to the fact that the government now, by establishing new burdens on citizens, is making the position of citizens difficult, their position will also be difficult by increasing prices. Not only those prices that will increase directly by increasing taxes, but, say, electricity prices, which is already significantly higher than it was before the DOS came to power. As we have heard the announcements of some who are responsible for the area, the price of electricity should be 5 cents. That's, like, 10 times more expensive than it was on October 5th. You can laugh, Mr. Jovanovic, as much as you want, but you obviously don't know how much electricity it cost before October 5th, because it obviously didn't interest you. At the time, you were only interested in lying as much as possible on the myths, and now you need to bury those lies with the guilt of the previous authorities. Maybe the previous government is guilty of a bad condition, but it's your fault that you lied about fixing it. The situation is now incomparably worse than it was before October 5th. That's your fault. You're guilty of lying. And this budget and these laws prove you're liars, that you lied to the people before you came to power. The situation of citizens is now incomparably more difficult, and in 2001 there will be years of horror regarding the standard of living of citizens. The only thing I'm admitting to this government is honesty in showing the budget deficit. It is 22 billion, as you can see very clearly, transparently, as you would say, with your sincere hope that this budget deficit will be covered with a new price from abroad. You called it privatisation money. You can call it privatisation, you can call it loans, donations, whatever you want, but that's the money that needs to come from abroad. For money to come from abroad to Serbia, there is a certain list of conditions. The first on that list is co-operation with The Hague. As we can see, co-operation with The Hague is not exactly a consensus within the DOS. One is against, the other is against, one is writing a letter to one list, another is a letter to another list, one is giving a statement to their television, another is a statement to their others, and so, while they are persuaded, the time is passing. You haven't told us how much money from abroad has arrived in six months since you triumphantly won power in Serbia? How much money did that get into Serbia? According to what you said, nothing. Some donations came in, some oil came in, some candy, some chocolates, just enough to show up in a pre-election campaign, but out of a couple of dollars. (President: Time. I'll be done in one minute, given that you've all tolerated overruns. Your main problem is the 22 billion budget deficit, since it is uncertain whether or not you will be able to cover that budget deficit. The answer to the question he asked, Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic should be himself. He said, which budget user should we deny for the amount planned to give to someone else. Since I doubt you'll be able to cover that 22 billion the way you planned, unless you reintroduce some taxes and taxes, you're going to have to give an answer that budget users will deny. To whom you will take the right out of the budget, which you will rightly reduce and I suggest you take Nebojsa Covic off those famous 500 million dinars for the start. What Nebojsa Covic does doesn't cost anything, it's worth nothing. Nebojsa Covic alone has managed to withdraw the Yugoslav Army from the border of the Homeland Security Zone because it was wanted by NATO in the last six months alone. There's no such thing as a land zone. There's no such thing as a land zone. (President: Please finish. )......................................................................................................... Where the Shiplars broke in, and there's no intention of the Scorpions going back to where they had to be, but that's why the army retreated. We don't have to pay Nebojsa Covic 500 million dinars to carry out NATO's pact orders, let NATO pay him the pact.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2147	Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2148	I disagree with my predecessor, but I think it's a matter of results, a question that needs to be answered in any case, especially in politics. The policy that we have led our first results has, above all, given our country's return to the international community, and, on the other hand, in the gradual process of restoring sovereignty in the part of lost sovereignty to our predecessor's policy. As for the economic moves we make, we know that they are difficult and that the price must be paid by the citizens. What makes us different from our predecessors is that together with our citizens, we show our willingness to pay that price, to be the first to pay. Look how the previous government acted. A million people without a job, and they hire their drivers and their bodyguards fictitiously in hospitals, so they get through the Health Fund. At the same time, hospitals leave, and they tell us - do not even treat patients. As many as 95% of people under the age of 30 have not solved the housing issue, but they have so effectively resolved the issue of their residence that no apartment remains in the Republic Fund after them. Finally, they here today determine and confess their own guilt. But they are not the ones who will give the final judgment of the guilty, nor are they the ones who will be the only ones in determining the proceedings and the dimensions of these crimes. That's what the D.A.'s office is doing, and we see how today the D.A. treats effectively those who were your coalition partners and whom you, as vice-presidents of the government and ministers, have put in a position to devastate health care, to devastate the judiciary, to devastate the police. I think specifically of Mr. Tomislav Jankovic, who, by your government's decision, appointed Director of the Health Fund, I mean Mr. Nikola Mitrovic, who from the post of Director of the Institute of Oncology organized the robbery of cytostatics and thus prevented the treatment of cancer patients. I mean Mr. Markovic, who is as head of the State Security Resor, whom you have brought to this place, organized political liquidations in this society. I mean those of you who have announced the murder of journalists, I mean you who have contributed to the adoption of the Information Law, I mean you who have passed the Law on the University, gentlemen, I mean you who have ruined this country. I'm sorry that Nebojsa Covic is not here to defend his own cheek, but he is much better off than any words say the results of the policy he is leading. [[Applause]] Serbian police and the Serb army returned to 350km of the Homeland Security Zone, returning sovereignty to 350km of which you lost. In the coming week, the Republic offices in Kosovo and Metohija, the DOS MPs from Kosovo and Metohija will open up in the Land Area of Security in Presevo, Bujanovac, in Medvedja, to contribute to the return of the work of sovereignty to that part of our territory. Anyway, we're gonna save this company. Despite what you're doing here at the pay phone and despite what you've been doing for all these past few months, as an unfair opposition, not unfair authority, but unfair to your people. You were obliged to say about this speaker, we brought different budgets than yours, budgets that knew we'd cheat on one pension, budgets that knew there was a taxi, but there was no cost of those taxis, unless you were thinking about the apartments you shared with yourself. So, gentlemen of the opposition, if the provisions of the Rules of Procedures which bind you to his respect are not applied today, make sure that they will be applied very quickly, because we have also told the citizens that the laws will be respected. If you don't believe that, look at your party colleagues, look at your coalition partners who aren't so set up in Central Prison cells today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2149	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2150	No replica, you're not mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2151	As I wasn't, he was pointing his finger at me the whole time. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2152	Don't make a circus out of the congregation. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2153	First, you allowed Cedomir Jovanovic to speak for the fourth time as head of the parliamentary group, and you decided at the beginning of the session that the bosses could only speak three times. Secondly, it was obvious to everyone that they were talking to both me and the entire SRS parliamentary group, and you wouldn't allow me a replica. Third, you finally need something from your accusations and prove it, at least one.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2154	Now, that third isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, that's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2155	Are you giving me a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2156	No, I don't. We'll discuss the matter of the Rules of Procedure first.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2157	Then will you give me the replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2158	No, since the Rules of Procedure haven't been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2159	And you know in advance that no Rules of Procedure have been broken?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2160	I'll give an explanation, you'll say if you agree, and if you disagree, we'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2161	First, you're in advance accusing Rade Markovic of committing a large number of murders. Not even Vladan Batic can do it now, because someone taught him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2162	I did not give you my word, and I warn you for the second time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2163	Not even Vladan Batic can do it now, because someone taught him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2164	I'm taking your word. I took your word, Mr. Seselj. Mr. Seselj, leave the pay phone. Just a minute. So, this was according to the Rules of Procedure, so I'll answer you. First, no one has found that the presidents of the parliamentary groups have three rights, but it is according to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Teach Mr. Seselj. So that's not what we decided, that was point one for you, and my answer is that in that part of the Rules of Procedure, it wasn't broken. Second, you objected, he spoke for the third time, consult tomorrow, nice, tangled stenographic notes, and then you'll see what's going on. And I ask you for the last time to respect this congregation and not to continue a traditional violation of its reputation. I beg you, please, to whom I answer, please don't really abuse the Rules of Procedure. If a replica is given, a replica is given, if it is not given, then don't make a circus out of this delicacy. There was no work, so there could be no violations of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2165	This was on Article 28.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2166	This was the answer. You can only ask for this answer, since you are not satisfied, that the congregation declares itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2167	Then how am I supposed to ask for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2168	The word is by MP Dusan Ilic, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, please finally start applying the Rules of Procedure. Article 100. The Rules of Procedure, the third position, says Decidantly: "The National Assembly, at the proposal of the National Assembly, can, without a search, impose a measure of distance from the session." The article in 101 has only one position, and the point is: "the warning is given to the MP who speaks before he asks for a word, if he interrupts the speaker in the presentation or throws away, that is to say, it interferes with the speakers and otherwise threatens freedom of speech". You know that Seselj is distracting me, throwing me and jeopardizing my freedom of speech. So, by applying these two criminal provisions, I ask you to finally seduce the order of the Assembly. You know that Serbian parliamentarianism has ruined Seselj after the magical entry into the Serbian parliament in 1991. Since then, violence has actually been legal. Please, Mr. President, we are a serious and responsible authority, and in order to be able to carry out this power seriously and responsibly, I ask you to use non-serious and irresponsible elements to calculate ourselves vigorously.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2170	So you also broke the Rules of Procedure, because you did not object that I violated it, but that you suggested that I should apply it differently. Here's a quick question, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2171	Mr. President, as far as I know, MPs of the National Assembly can only be people from those parties who won the census in the election. I wonder why Zoran Cirkovic and Mihajlo Markovic were here among us when the Serbian Renewal Movement was below the censorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2172	What are you talking about, Mr. Seselj? How can you not be ashamed? I have to realize it's very stupid.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2173	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately I think there is a breach of the Rules of Procedure by the Chairman and it refers to Article 103(1) concerning Article 100(3) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure. Article 103, paragraph 1, says "the measure of distance from the sitting shall be expressed to the MP who, after the measures have been taken and the words taken, interferes or prevents the work of the sitting". In the previous course, Mr. Vojislav Seselj had already been taken away from his word, so he was taken away from him for the second time, fulfilling that he was continuing to behave contrary to the Rules of Procedure. It is true that Article 100(3) is told that the National Assembly decides on the proposal of the President, but by correct interpretation of the provision of Article 103, which says "the measure of distance from the session is expressed", it is not -can be said, but - it is said, in my understanding, that it obliges the chairperson to propose to the Assembly to give the measure of distance. So it is a member 100. put forward on the proposal, but it's not a discretionary right, but when conditions are obtained as they have acquired here, according to the dictation of Article 103(1), the chairman must do so. My proposal is to put it to the vote whether MPs believe that the chairman violated the Rules of Procedure in such a way as not to propose a distance measure, and to which he was obliged under Rule 103(1) of this Rules of Procedure. When I get back to the post, I'm asking to get a chance to say whether I want this put to a vote or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2174	I'll put this proposal to a vote. The result of the vote will have its consequences, and this will practically lead to a decision on the distance of the MP. It is a direct consequence when it is determined that I have violated the Rules of Procedure. So, I'm putting your motion to a vote, that Article 103 has been broken. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 40, against 68 abstentions, 19 did not vote 46, a total of 173 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted your objection regarding the violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure. The word is Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2175	Mr. Martian, several MPs from your DOS came out for this pay phone, probably some of the parties from your coalition who aren't so likable and tried to explain to you what it is you're doing here, and it puts us in a position to have a president of the Assembly who constantly violates the Rules of Procedure. I went out to tell you that you violated article 28. The Rules of Procedure, which says "the president of the National Assembly takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure". The president of our parliamentary group when other MPs of the Serbian Radical Party came forward pointed to you. This is not just the case at today's session that since you sat down as President of the Assembly, and especially since the adoption of this famous new Rules of Procedure, you have been going by this method to selectively implement the Rules of Procedure. So, in a situation where you do not feel comfortable with being told by one of the MPs that the Rules of Procedure have been broken, in a situation where I, my colleague or any of the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, come out to talk about the law-searching in principle, in particular, you do not warn the dissuasive MPs of the DOS to violate the Rules of Procedure, to behave politely and not to demean MPs, nor the National Assembly. This was the case throughout today, and also in previous sessions, but it was expressed in the afternoon session, where you are also violating Article 90. The Rules of Procedure, which says that if the president of the National Assembly wants to participate in a search for a part of the agenda, must leave it to the vice president, one of the vice presidents to continue to hold the session. You do not, you make comments and participate with MPs in the discussion not only when you explain to them how you interpret the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but also when MPs speak about what is on the agenda. Therefore, it would be best for you, by your example, Mr. Martian, to show that you really want this congregation home to have one dignity, that you and your MPs from the parliamentary majority behave normally. You've really fooled us, and you said that we're looking at the stenogram now, like we don't have a lot of work and we have to explain 400 of our amendments, to go do it, whether Mr. Jovanovic came out the fourth time, and he did, and you said he didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2176	I owe you, of course, to answer you again, you call it a part of the debate, but I answer you like this. I have registered some 7 MPs from different parties in power and opposition, who have objected not to apply the Rules of Procedure properly. I ask you to join in, to apply for resolution, and to resolve this issue in this way, and to suspend the debate on the Rules of Procedure and to approach the examination of legislative proposals. I don't think the Rules of Procedure really need to be discussed. All representatives of all parties should submit a joint request, we will put that in the agenda of the Assembly and end that part of the story. Let's now move on to review the budget laws and other laws that are within the framework of a joint principled search. I give the word to Mr Dusan Ilic, and after him has the word Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2177	I finally got my turn. Journalists have already begun to say that Minister Krapovic has been invited to come. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I would like to say that I will support the draft budget of the Government of Serbia, and I want to say that the MPs of the DS Serbia will support the draft budget and the government that has courageously and responsibly entered these reforms, as far as I am aware that these reforms are painful. I will support this budget because it represents a break-up with the irresponsible, wasteful, economic policy of previous governments, which is expressed in those strong zeros on the bill that my colleague, Svezanovic, from Gornji Milanovac, showed to all of you. I would like to point out that the idea of this budget is a reform of Serbia's public finances, one set of laws that will reduce our lag and delay for countries that have already entered the transition. The previous budget was 32 billion, but more than 18 billion dinars were additionally spent in the area outside of budget activities, on funds for the country's Reconstruction Directorate, for the ZTP Fund, which used a special 3% for Serbia's high-speed railways, to set out for the Kolubar region for which it was very discreetly spent and for many other out-of-bududge activities. Practically, the previous budget was 51 billion. In this budget, the main reallocations of funds go according to the priorities of all of us in DOS, which are health, education and social protection. I would like to remind our predecessors that in October 2000, there was a delay in the childcare allowance for two years, for the pensions of peasants for three years, for the material security of citizens for 26 months, and the funds for other people's care and assistance were delayed for 32 months. It best says what concerns today's critics of this budget. The fact that we all agree with is that this budget is not a development budget, but it allows normal functioning, in line with the opportunities of economy, social services and state administration. Serbia's government, meanwhile, is preparing something that we could call a capital budget, and it will have a longer projection based on foreign funding from a donor conference that will be held in the middle of the year and World Bank loans, which we will come up with when we resolve our status there. These funds are not shown in the budget, such as no funds in the budget that will be raised by a special single tax law on companies that have achieved a monopoly extra profit in the previous period. Dragoljub Stamenkovic, from "Jugopetrol"? ) We know which companies they are, you know which companies and citizens of Serbia know which companies they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2178	By reminding MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, an SRS MP, not to throw it out of place anymore. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2179	One of my colleagues, who spoke before me, worried and criticised the budget for making some of his mathematics based on drunk coffee and refreshing drinks. It just shows the tragedy of the predecessors, who based their monetary policy on coffee and beer crates. Serbian citizens are rightly concerned. They're concerned about the experiences they have from previous governments. However, the honesty and openness of this budget and this proposal, which was delivered to the Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its ministry, deserves our trust and our support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2180	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and the next one is Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2181	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, listing the stenograms before the adoption of the budget in the last few years, has been heard from today's regime of words: the harachus, the force of the villa, tossing his hands into the civil pockets. These are today's words spoken by Minister, Mr Batic, and I can specifically now use those same words because this budget - the Hara's budget, imposes on the villa and drags hands into the civil pockets. For the draft of this budget and tax laws in the package, you have already limited our time of discussion in advance and for only one reason - that the opposition does not show the citizens what it expects from April 1st. With 32.7 billion, you've raised the budget to 130 billion, where one budget is unrealistic and inflatable. What about your pre-election promises of 6 billion marks, in which our people believed and voted for you to come to power. No, it's normal to have none of those promises, no one's going to give money in vain, and especially not here. Then you have to put your hands on the citizens in your pockets. The revenues, which I would call here - Mr Djindjic's and Mr Djelic's revenues, as well as the expenditures I would call - the expenditures of Mr Batic and Mr Covic. Their items, for which they are in charge, these expenditures are the most increased. When I say so, I will support the fact that the increase in funds in shares for the needs of Mr Covic and Mr Batić is an index of 6, 7 and 8 times, while for the needs of others it remains on average 2.5 times. However, there is another category that has been totally neglected. They ignored the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, as if they were not in Serbia. When I say this, I will support the fact that the 80m budget proposal for 120,000 Serbs, currently living in Kosovo and Metohija, turns out that this country will give each citizen 1.5 million dollars. It is such a symbolic and ridiculous sum and humiliating for all Serbs who have remained to live in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. By contrast, you give this 1.5-dollar figure to the citizens, for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, two million a day to a man who runs a co-ordination team. The co-ordination team says that for the needs of the military and the police, however, there is a clear and beautiful point here that a billion-and-a-half are provided for the police, and that for the needs of the military, it is foreseen by the federal budget. The budget has another characteristic, which is that you are predicting the deficit in advance, and the minister, although we have not adopted this budget yet, predicts the budget's rebalance, he said in his exposé. Other proposed laws, which need to fill this budget, such as the Excise Act, the Transport Tax Act, are such that tax and excise tax rates are increased multiplely. The proposal that excise gas is paid by 16 dinars is extremely high. Let's take one simple bill, 16 dinars for excise duty, 20% of sales taxes, that's another 7 dinars, another 20% margin, that's another 7 dinars, turns out to be 14 plus 16 = 30 dinars, so for 5 dinars we have to get oil, to transport, lager and sell to customers. It's simply impossible, and the very announcement by Mr. Minister that there was an expert team here, it's impossible for him to make such a mistake, only if they don't predict that the price of gasoline is drastically collected. The Transport Tax Act has taxed everything. You're saying it wasn't just bread and milk that was taxed. However, that finding does not stand, for bread is not taxed, but it is therefore taxed flour, additives, salt, water, those substances that participate in the production of bread, so that bread is used.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2182	Mr. Kragovic, I'm warning you that time has gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2183	One more thing I would like to point out is that you should have consulted Mr. Veselinov and that the Agrarian budget would be much higher, at least in that increase index where the increase for Mr. Covic and Batic is higher, because here the index of the Agrarian budget is small, while for other purposes it is bigger. The most important thing is to invest in agriculture, which is currently the only basis for the country's further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2184	The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2185	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I will say a few specific things about these drafts of a set of laws, starting with the budget, to tax laws, if you'll allow me. Before that, I would say that certain estimates have been made here that individual MPs or individual opposition MP groups intend to obstruct. The obstruction is done in another way. That's what I was talking about. That's what I'd like to apostrophe. First, at the beginning of the sittings in time, then on a permanent matter related to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and in other ways, in which all MPs are equally involved. It is important that the budget and budgets of the municipalities be adopted in time, and it is said that Friday is the deadline, because it is 31, that the budgets of the municipalities should be delivered by 1 April, and that we have little time for that. We could have done this in a timely manner by preparing ourselves for this session and just reminding you that your finding is that there are 400 amendments, and that there have been over 800 amendments in the previous budget, so in time it was possible to prepare the session, to begin and do this job on time. But since the session is scheduled for an emergency procedure, then it is possible for amendments to be submitted to the very beginning and placed on the agenda, which is normally a procedural error, but is not opposition MPs. What I would like to point out as a special point is that in the financing of municipalities, part of the income generated on the basis of the municipal contribution is now moving into another form of income tax at a rate of up to 4%, combined with the part envisaged for solid housing, which was once 1.33, and the second under government approval could be used up to a maximum of 3%. This part of the funds, which was the municipality's income, was used to build infrastructure, mostly by submitting the programme, and it was approved in one, two, up to a maximum of three percent, and at one time it was four and five. That part of the budget didn't make sense of spending. This part of the municipality's budget was used to encourage and build municipal facilities, infrastructure, necessary cities, populated towns in one municipality. Thus, construction and other operations were employed and the money returned to production. They didn't have the essence of consumption. The new proposed solution gives municipalities the right to use it in different ways, including to build good from general interest. It is better and should accept an old solution or if this is to be a commitment to use that part of the funds under a specific programme for the purposes for which it has been used so far, which is much better for the citizens of the municipality. Secondly, the participation of municipalities in sales tax has been quite reduced in a number of municipalities. In view of the fact that the estimated revenues from the collection of sales taxes, I have one such amendment, normally it is not accepted, because both the Committee and the Government have rejected it, but it is becoming more difficult to finance municipalities because the funds will be less secure than it is under the projected assessment, and if it is taken into account that some of the funds provided for in earlier financing are not yet in place, that a specific fund is set up for entrusted transactions and financed in a special way, then the municipalities will be in a far more difficult position. I'd like to say one more thing about sales tax. I have submitted an amendment concerning the release of taxes on fertilisers and plant protection products, to add words -- both seed goods and fruit material. The Finance Committee has rejected this amendment. The same amendment was submitted by the government of the Republic of Serbia, adding that cattle food was included in it. The amendment was accepted normally by the Committee because the government proposed it as its amendment, although the minister explained yesterday that it was foreseen by the tax law, which is not true, but rather the amendment, not in the basic text, was later intervened. Therefore, this is not a good argument for the Committee to reject my amendment. Normally, I am grateful that the government has submitted the same amendment that I was talking about, but the point is that these things are happening, too, to reject the same amendment submitted by the MP with the government, and to accept the government amendment. Nothing was difficult to say - the amendment of the MP was accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2186	The word has a minister of justice, Mr Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2187	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a little bit of an hour has said that the budget's distribution of justice has been increased by 6 to 7 times compared to the 2000 budget projection, which is not true. The total division of justice for 2000 was 1.8 billion dinars, and for 2001, the plan is 4.4 billion dinars, which is 2.4 times as much as the projected growth of the budget. Not six or seven times, noting that the Ministry of Justice has been added before by the Ministry of Local Self-Government and part of the Ministry of Information, who is no longer present. It's just not true. Speaking of the Ministry of Justice, it seems to me that the projected and planned meetings are indeed at one extreme minimum, given that here the judiciary, one of the pillars of the democratic government, is indeed brought, statusally, to the lowest possible level. Serbia, I guess, has already said that, is the only country in the world where the Supreme Court of the country does not have its own building, Serbia is the only country in which the Constitutional Court of the country does not have its own building. There's no Supreme Court. There is. Serbia is the only country in the world, probably where the President of the Constitutional Court has been an economist so far. Well, as the constitution was written, so did we. Otherwise, everywhere in the world, the President of the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court judges must meet only two criteria, to be top legal experts and to be personalities with the highest moral credibility. All these rules apply, except in the country of Serbia. There's no need to talk about judges of the district court, those who have passed death warrants, who decide on life and death, who decide other people's freedom, who work the most prominent cases, have a salary of 200-250 marks. So what the projection of the budget for the division of justice and justice is really on the verge of some elemental minimum. And another thing, since most of the current opposition appears here -- the lowest social product in Europe, the lowest national income, minimum foreign exchange reserves, the lowest growth rate of production, the lowest export, the lowest wages, the lowest pensions, the lowest pregnancy and maternity care, the lowest child benefits, the highest rate of corruption, the highest rate of crime, the most unexplained heavy crime, the highest percentage of suicides, the highest number of cancer patients, the highest number of cancer patients, the most unemployed, the highest number of refugees, the highest morals, most beggars, the most robbed citizens in Europe, the loan for Serbia, the old virgin savings, the Jad and Dafin, the most unemployed, the most vulnerable of them, and the most vulnerable of all, the richest of all, the rich and the richest of the people in the world, the world, the wealth of wealth of poverty, the people, and the richness of wealth of wealth, the richness, the people, the people, the rich and the people, the people who have lost their wealth of wealth, the wealth of wealth of wealth of wealth of wealth, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, the people, and the peoples and the people, the peoples, the peoples, the peoples, the peoples and the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who have lost and the people, and the people who are the people who they and the people who are the people who they and the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the, who are the people, who are the people, who they, who they they they they they they they they they they they they they they they they who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the, who they who they they they they they they they they they, who are the people who are the people, who are the people who they It has been said that Serbia will be able to feed and heat half of Europe, and it turns out it cannot feed and heat itself. These are the balances of previous governments, projections of their budgets, their stories of prosperity, their stories of Swedish national income and the Swiss standard. So, of all that, we had until recently, until DOS took over power, ranks in Serbia, for bread, for oil, for sugar, for coffee, for gasoline, rows and only rows. There are also now lines, and there will be rows, but for some other places and for some other things. They've already started making lines. So, gigs all over the place, cardboard boxes, flea markets. This is not what Romania looked like, unfortunately, with past power and past regimes, with millions of offended, ashamed, disfigured and, on the other hand, powerful, rich and powerful. With this budget, of course, we do not plan and promise neither honey nor milk nor prosperity, we do not promise, on the other hand, blood, sweat and tears. We promised to curb the gray economy, justice, savings, reviving the economy, resuscitating the difficult social situation. We will create opportunities and create a position to restore perspective, hope, faith, the future. In happy countries, the new power is inherited from its predecessors full of cash, full of funds, high standard, developed infrastructure. We inherited the destroyed economy, the destroyed infrastructure, the ruined funds. That's because our predecessors were dissipating, con men, criminals, traitors. It happened -- it didn't happen again. It is up to the DOS to get Serbia back on track, to have people living a decent man's life in Serbia, and so it will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2188	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2189	Dear lady, or Miss, the Rules of Procedure, Article 98, paragraph 1, have not responded. Namely, the one who stood behind this pay phone before me did not speak at all about the subject on the agenda. Take this session of the National Assembly in person. Dismiss MPs of the opposition every word, which pops out of the context of this session, and allows MPs of the ruling structures to talk about everything, to wait for the MPs of the opposition who will respond to it, to warn them that they are not talking about the subject. You're no longer in the opposition, get rid of it. Don't fight the government anymore, you're the government now. So don't act like an opposition to this pay phone anymore. You could have a literary essay write you about what happened -- so you said it in the campaign and won the election. And now we're asking you -- why this budget? The answer to that isn't -- what was your budget, that's a stupid answer, and I expected it from the predecessors. What I expected, that's what I got. I'm asking you now -- why is this budget like this, and you say, what was yours? So that's why we lost power, and that story is over, that book is closed. Now you're in charge. Mr. Batić, I mention you freely, because you are no match for your replicas, you are only up to the threat, not just the means of information. You use the National Assembly's pay phone to threaten people with jail time. You can say that in the illusions, in the hints, but now you've said there are lines to prison. Who the hell are you?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2190	You've come forward about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2191	You won't answer me, I'm talking now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2192	I'll answer because you're done with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2193	When I get off the phone, don't do anything to me behind my back. Don't threaten here anymore, so I guess five months was enough to determine who the criminal was. I don't want to feel like a criminal here, because whoever of you gets out here says there's a prison for all of us. I don't want to feel like someone who's guilty if there's no guilt. Please come out here and tell me what I stole, tell me what any of the SRS MPs or anyone who stole anything, and why they're going to jail, and not here, like in Joseph Broz's time, they show up on TV, and they say, "There are thieves in this country, and the whole country is shaking." What is this way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is this way, Mr. Minister? You're fed up with hate, and you carry that hate behind this pay phone. Come out nicely, as a man, for this pay phone, not as one who threatens. The loss of power awaits you, at that time, so do not make us have to sanctify ourselves to you. What about you, uncle? Are you crazy? What are you doing with your hands? He's speaking to a messenger in the O.R. Well, of course, the whole hall listens to smart words, only you're waving your hands, I think you've been bit by that CC fly. So be what you say it is - a democratic power. It wasn't good for the previous government, but I've never heard from this pay phone that anyone in the opposition was threatened to be arrested. (Employer of Veselinov, from the place: I was threatened twice by Seselj. That's because you were drunk, that's different. The other thing, none of you have ever been persecuted, none of you have ever been arrested for being involved in politics. Don't forget that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2194	You've called in to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and at the same time you've done two injuries by not talking on the subject, you haven't talked about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and secondly, you've overstepped your time. I'm obliged to give you an answer. There is a Article 98. - "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda," and there's an article 101. "Noting is spoken to the People's Messenger," not to the Minister. Are you satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2195	I didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2196	We don't want to discuss it. We can just put it to the vote on whether or not the Rules of Procedure have been injured. It says here, "If the MP is not satisfied with the response to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, he can be put to the vote." You want us to put it to the vote that the Rules of Procedure have been injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2197	I won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2198	The word came from the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Vesenov.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2199	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected the opposition to behave like this in parliament when she left power. You've left these benches and now you're saying you've never threatened anyone from this pay phone. The only thing that's true is that when we were the opposition, we didn't threaten anyone from this pay phone. We're not threatening even now that we're in power. But you, Mr. Seselj, threatened to kill me twice from this place at three o'clock, twice threatened to kill me in this assembly. It's recorded in a stenogram. That's when you turned off my microphone here, so the people wouldn't hear how you treated the opposition. You threatened us with death in this assembly, and me as president of the parliamentary party. That's how you acted. And not only that, in this country 500 people died during your government, unexposed murders. We'll do anything to find out who the commanding officer and the perpetrator of the murders, which someone ordered in this assembly, from this place where the Prime Minister once sat. He agreed with you while you threatened to kill me. That won't work, Mr. Seselj. Here, at this pay phone, no one threatened you from power. We're trying to show this budget the best we can. What we inherited, it's your robbery. Yesterday I said a 3.5 billion dinar number. (Here, they listen to the Russian anthem on cell phones. You stole a lot. When prices are revolving in the Stock Reserve Directorate, what you stole is not 75% of the current budget. When it's revolving, it's a budget and a half, the Agrarian budget for this year, that's what's been stolen during your power since 1998, until we've taken over the offices. And that's what we're gonna find out. We've put over 300 people on criminal charges. Don't laugh, no one gets away with it. We're not threatening, we're just notifying the public that the crime won't go away. Anyone who has stolen this enormous people's property will go to court. Don't laugh, you better listen to those who are better than you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2200	We need to determine the order. We have two objections to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, we have one replica, we have one statement from the Minister. By the way, let's remind ourselves that tax laws are on the agenda. First request, breach of the Rules of Procedure - Mr Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2201	Dear MPs, the final sentence of the chairman is right now saying I need to talk about tax laws. What I'm trying to say is that Article 98, paragraph 1, has been broken. - "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda." The current justice minister spoke for seven minutes, and only in the first sentence did he mention the basic theme, which was the budget split that talks about the justice ministry. All the rest of the discussion was about socialists and others again.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2202	I'm asking Mr. Nikolic to turn off his cell phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2203	Minister, I'm a socialist, and I suggest you arrest me freely and see where we meet then. Let me ask you, Minister, how can you represent the shabbing elevator smugglers in cases at the Municipality Court of Sapac, who were former JULs and today are members of the Democratic Party? Furthermore, for the fees received in the dispute, tax returns were filed for the total income of citizens, and the deadline was, as far as I know, 15.03. It's been 13 days since that deadline. When you answer those questions, you can talk about Serbian Socialists.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2204	He has the word Dr. Vojislav Seselj - replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2205	I think we have big problems with the Parliament's presidency, that a lot of things hear, a lot of things don't hear. This is where Dragan Veselinov went out for a pay phone claiming that I threatened to kill him twice. It would have been enough if I'd killed him once. But why kill him when he's always been the most likable to me here. Especially in the past, when the SPO left the Assembly, when the opposition could count on its fingers. My men, I've arranged with him how to get Chanka out of the assembly. He brought me a court register, registered the Vojvodina Coalition. They went to elections as the Vojvodina Coalition. He presented the party as the fourth coalition partner and kicked Canko out of the Vojvodina Coalition. The "Vojvodina" Coalition remains, Canak is resolved, etc. It's just to show you how much I had sympathy for Veselinov. I still do. He's my favorite MP here. I'd just warn him, when he's drunk, it takes some time for him to cut himself open, to have coffee, not to go out here with phone booths. I want to say something else that I possibly told him in a private conversation. If he took it seriously, he should have reported it to the police right away. Second, you're talking about unsolved murders here. It is true that in the past 10 years, there have been many murders in Serbia, which have to date been unsolved, unexplained. You accused the authorities of committing these murders. Here, for more than five months, you've been the government, and you haven't made any clear. I can't wait for you to clear that up. New murders happen with the same intensity. Still all the sound names of the underworld and some others from the esthera, these economic, commercial, etc. It all went on. You know, crime in Serbia hasn't dropped a bit, only criminals have reoriented. In the past, they were directed towards left-wing parties, as there were certain privileges, and now the river of criminals is being rerouted and heading towards DOS. Now they've come to see you. You haven't solved anything yet. Why don't you at least clear one murder? Here, Curuvia. Explain that murder at last. You all know exactly what I think of Curuvia, what I thought before and how many times I've said it in public. Here, I'm interested too. I'm very concerned about who did this murder. Weasel, finish it, investigate. Why didn't you investigate any of them? It's just an empty story you're telling here. You can't live off memories, what happened before, it was. Those who used to be power were defeated in the election. Now you show your authority. Give me one effect. What happened to Vesic now, gone Vesic, is the only consequence of your insinuation. Vesic escapes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2206	It's not a replica, it's a member of the government. Then it's like a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2207	First of all, on that previous incursion, malignancies completely, I never represented any gas traffickers from Capca, even when I was a lawyer. I don't know any JULs that have gone to the Demochrist party. We don't take these because on the logo of our party there's a cross, and they run away from it like the devil from the cross. Thank God, they're gone. As for the illusion of some kind of threat, no one here, not even me, has said any threats, not a single threat, not a prison in my discussion mentioned earlier. These illusions daily, both in parliament and in the press, may they honor those who pronounce them. Since I've come under the circumstances of the Justice Minister, I haven't written or telephoned a single judge, not a single investigating judge, not one public prosecutor, I don't know, because I didn't want to know, just to try a system of free and independent judiciary. No investigative judge, no name of any investigative judge, no prosecutor who performs in all these cases that are on the agenda. Our goal is to create an environment for a free and independent judiciary. So we can raise our responsibilities to the level of the Gospel. They must be held accountable before the law by all, and by the leaders of the former government, both present and future. Only if we adopt the principles of responsibility and exchangeability, in a political sense, has we created democracy in the country. And the fact that many of the former regime's people were involved in crime and because of them the Central Prison has to work as a jeweler, they're not guilty of either the minister of justice or the new government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2208	No, there's no replica, he's replicating you. Well, you can get along at home. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2209	Mr. President, please don't hurt this Rules of Procedure anymore, let's really reject it, and we'll all burn these copies that we've received from you and run a session at your discretion. The minister has no right to replica in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The minister has the right to get a word when he asks for it, when the previous speaker finishes his presentation and the minister is a speaker who must speak exclusively about the subject on the agenda. So please find me the basis by which you gave Mr. Secretary the right to the replica, so I'll admit I don't know the Rules of Procedure. As I am obliged to refer to you as a member of the Rules of Procedure and you shall specify a member of the Rules of Procedure, which states that you were right when you gave Mr Batić a word to answer the line just now. If you give him your word as minister, then he is obliged to talk about the subject on the agenda, which is the 2001 budget. I conclude, just to remind you once again, this is the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia building, there are more of them, I assume that the one in which Mr Batic is located is in Germany 22, and the cabinet sessions are in Germany 11 and there can be ministers until they wish to distribute. And what's on the agenda and what's not on the agenda. This is our House of Representatives. In this House of Representatives, we are Members of the debate, ministers have come to try to convince us to accept this budget. So please, Mr. President, you're a People's MP here. We had a lot of accusations in the earlier period that the Assembly was in charge of those who rule the Republic of Serbia, which was spoken by the president of Serbia, the Prime Minister, here, the government changed. And you're doing everything your predecessors did in that place. You are in the government of the Republic of Serbia, you must protect the MPs, no matter where the parliamentary groups are from, from the ministers, and I can protect myself from MPs. I can't protect myself from the minister. What am I going to do on a replica, Minister, when he doesn't have the right to go out on a replica of me. So I'm asking you to run this session differently. Here, we've lost a bad time today, we can't even get a debate in principle to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2210	Just a moment to answer, what you have objected to is written in the same article that says that the MP responds to the minister's mention of the name and insult by the minister. Where it says that Mr. Seshlj was entitled to a replica, so it also says that Mr. Batic is entitled to a replica. Here you go. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my fault that I rarely refer to the Rules of Procedure. I think this is my first time since we've been in this assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that I've come out to call on the Rules of Procedure. A member of the 98th was injured, I do not know if Mr. President would be able to follow me, since he was not in the O.R., several times I asked for a word in his absence, several times I tried, although I listen carefully to every speaker, to suggest at that time the chairman, or vice-president of the National Assembly, that it was impossible to warn only the MPs of the SRS, and that not a single word would remind all of what MPs of the ruling majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It was just amazing. Now I want to point you to Article 98, which was brutally trampled. It's about the hardest and worst possible insults, and many today we haven't even commented on. I'm just going to repeat some of them, quote them, which is: criminals, traitors, and not to mention that they talked about the physical characteristics of people, and you weren't just smiling at them, you were laughing loudly, and it was all normal. Every time you answer that, when you stand up to it, you call it boastful, passionate, you call it a circus, etc. I would ask you to keep such double arches, that such double standards in the conduct of the chairmanship of the National Assembly will not be in the future. I'd like them to pay attention to their own dictionary, the ones who are trying to warn others here, because then that would make sense. Like this, it doesn't make any sense. Not someone who goes out for a pay phone and yells, and thinks that they're gonna get something at the argument: you're a traitor, you're like that. Great. If I'm a traitor, I want to go to jail. Somebody tell me, and somebody prove it to me. To whom I say he's a traitor, I'm ready to go to jail immediately if I can't prove he's a traitor. That's the difference, that's the point. Please, and that means that there is no insult to one side only, that you are not using the opportunity to insult only the MPs of the SRS or opposition parties in the National Assembly. It's not just about you ad personam. So, to say, it is you who are going to make the circus, you are going to be obstructing, and the most difficult, and the worst possible insults, with nothing proven, come from the ruling majority's MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2212	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to say that you, as chairman of the Assembly, are indeed enjoying a great fondness both for the citizens of Serbia and for the great part of the MPs here, because you are indeed holding a session in difficult conditions. Take her into difficult conditions because you yourself have contributed to the fact that you are going into a joint review of all six legal projects and, at the same time, 10 minutes planned for the discussion under one legal project to 5 minutes for all six legal projects. I call for a violation of article 98, which is that the speaker can only talk about issues that are on the agenda. I want to tell you that as MPs, we were in a position to have an emergency session at the end of February to adopt the Rules of Procedure in order to be absolutely ready to work effectively from March 1st. It is not our fault that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has so late delivered these legislative projects, but we are not to blame and must not suffer a fact that you may not have seen, which is that after members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are always large debates. Members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are constantly breaking the Rules of Procedure, Article 98, and that is the obligation to speak only about issues that are on the agenda and always after their exits we come to the position of the 10-15 discussion to be about hurting the Rules of Procedure, about what is said, about any other matter. Serbian citizens listen to us via television and Gordan Zivojinovic from Sapac, and any citizen, listen to us here and wait to see what both MPs say about the budget, about the tax burden, whether it is justified to take 30 billion dinars more or not compared to last year, whether the budget is inflatable, not to listen here to promotions of political character and how forced administration of Serbia's judicial system is being introduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2213	I accept your objection. I'm glad to be accused of breaking the Rules of Procedure from all MPs. I accept everything. The word has a National MP Nebojsa Jovic, followed by a National MP, Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2214	Mr. President, honourable MPs, in the DOS election campaign, the slogan "wake up, it's time". But after October 1st, a part of the people intoxicated with fame fell asleep, but thank God the "awakeman" came -- tax law, and the people began to wake up. Why? He heard he was going to be taxed almost everything but the air. Although the bread is not taxed, but if the price is taken into account yesterday, then there is really no need to be. I'm in the sense of Article 11. The Transport Tax Act proposed not to pay taxes on medicines, medical supplies, edible oil, school studies, textbooks for basic, secondary, higher and higher education, drinking water, school writers and drawing accessories, but unfortunately the Government of the Republic of Serbia rejected my amendment for its known reasons, and this burdens the most vulnerable part of the population. I claim that the Single Aid Fund will not be replaced by those funds to the most vulnerable population. Mr. Minister, Article 10 provides for a single rate of 17%. If you add 3% to that rate on federal tax, that makes 20% taxing all goods and all products. I'm saying it's a high rate. In the current tax system, there was a lower and higher rate. Why do I claim there'll be more tax burden? Because the largest number of products is loaded at a lower rate so that we can make a calculation of how tax burden will be. So much for the sales tax. I'd like to say a few words about the budget, about division 18, Ministry of Education and Sports. Namely, in position 16, an analytical conto 911-332 programme in the field of sports, 165 million are foreseen. It is an insufficient amount to develop sports if it is known that there are no sports halls in Serbia. I come from Toplice, where Prokuplje is like the center of the county, anima sports hall, as well as the city of Kursumli. The bullet has entered the procedure of the Ministry of Sports because it has secured building land, a building permit and all necessary technical documentation, and 21 million dinars have been approved for the construction of the sports hall, but these funds have not been transferred in favour of the budget of the Municipality of Kursumli, so I ask you to redistribute the funds from income, if possible, to provide additional funds. As far as the Agricultural Budget is concerned, an insufficient amount is provided for in the part of the investment, where the Republic's participation in the construction of the dam and the accumulation is planned. The 2001 programme envisions a continuation of the construction of the dam "Sevola" and "Pvonik", which have not yet been completed, and according to the material began 11 - 14 years ago. They're not finished, but large-water evacuation bodies have been built, so there's a possibility that in the event of large-scale waters, there may be a dam spilling and its collapse, and this may have unseen consequences and a question of how far it will reach, but I hope it won't come. That is why you are calling on you, Mr. Minister Vesenov, to come and see what condition it is, because the construction of the Sevola system is of interest to five municipalities - Kursumli, Prokuplje, Blace, Merošin and Nis. I know it can't be done in a year, but I'm asking you to try to find at least a little more funding. Let the government look at the redistribution of incomes where they can find funds. As regards the financing of local self-government, the proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 2001 set out the means for the implementation of occasional and other laws of certain works of municipalities, cities and cities of Belgrade and the participation of municipalities and cities in the part of the sales of products and services designated for the financing of public expenditures in the Republic, which are carried out on its territory. The municipality of Kurzumli received 13 million and 454,000 dinars per 40.3%. After a statement by the Prime Minister, Djindjic, I realized yesterday that these rates and amounts cannot be changed. That's right, and that's why I've given up proposing a change in the rates of municipalities belonging to the Warm End. By amending the law on public income and public expenditure, property tax and residence tax, they remain with municipalities in full. However, removing the compensation for municipal goods from the general interest of 3% and the solidarity building fund of 1.3% I don't think it's the right solution. As of June 1st, however, 3% will be applied to gross wages, but these are non-intentional funds that depend on political authorities at all. Just one question, if the amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government introduce additional burdens on the municipality to finance individual users, I wonder only what means it will be?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2215	The word was answered by Mr. Pelevic, and then by the People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2216	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to make a modest contribution to the return to the debate on the budget and tax laws, which is why this session of the National Assembly has been convened. The Serbian Unity Party has already said it will vote against adoption of the 2001 budget and tax laws precisely because economic policymakers should have worked harder to develop production, develop economy, agriculture, especially when it comes to spring sowing, exports and everything else from which the budget should otherwise be filled. However, the government has decided to fill the budget primarily from the funds of already poor Serbian citizens, as well as from the funds already falling in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. These are the only reasons why our party will not vote for the adoption of such a budget and tax laws because it is a major blow to the standard of living of Serbian citizens and a major blow to businesses that are otherwise difficult to be in the premises of the former Republic of Serbia. We were very specific and the SSJ proposed that, apart from milk and bread that were exempt from sales taxes, all kinds of cheese, sugar, edible oil, eggs, fat, detergent of domestic production, soap for personal hygiene of domestic production, medicines, medical means, textbooks for basic, secondary, higher and higher education, drinking water, as well as coal and heating wood. Our motives were to suggest that this too be free from sales taxes, precisely so that citizens could eat, maintain a minimum of personal hygiene, and that they could be educated and that during the winter they could be warmed up. We also suggested that expenditure related to the President of the Republic of Serbia's cabinet be reduced, because I have already concluded once, and I repeat, that the president of the Republic of Serbia is not doing his duty because he is not advertising about the difficult situation in the south of Serbia and about the occupation of the part of Serbia's territory. We believe that these expenditures are high, we find them inappropriate that his waiter has 12,000 dinars, and that the waiter in this National Assembly only has a salary of 3,000 dinars. Also, we consider that the budget for the National Assembly of Serbia should be significantly reduced, because I believe that the salaries of Members of Parliament, who are constantly working here, are very high. The salary is around 10,500 dinars, and 4,000 were paused and 300,00 dinars are each daily for the Assembly, Parliament club and committees, as the bodies of the National Assembly. It is important that the people know that our salaries are between 16,000 and 18,000 dinars, and our voters are paid an average of 4,000 dinars. We have not earned anything, and the public sees it by our conduct in this congregation. The example I'm going to point out, twice today we didn't have a quorum and the session had to be interrupted, and we didn't have a quorum when it came to the most important issues for the Serbian citizens' standard of living. We also believe that the government's budget, a part that has been set aside for the expenditure of the government of the Republic of Serbia, has been reduced. I don't mean people who work in the National Assembly and in the Serbian government as administration and as auxiliary staff, because their salaries are also high, I mean only the salaries of the MPs and the salaries of ministers. I also believe that the excessive budget, i.e. the current budget reserves, is too large and that part of it is allocated for the development of agriculture, i.e. for the spring sowing. Of all these funds, which will reduce previous items, should be given to the Ministry of Social Affairs and that - for social care about children, above all, for the Ministry of Education and Sports, for the development and improvement of student credits, talents and scholarships, so that our young people do not leave our country and that Serbian youth and Serbian brains are not wasted. We also asked for sports programmes to be significantly higher, as 180 million dinars are little for sport development in the Republic of Serbia. We also asked for the Commissioner for Refugees, the position of 1.71, to be corrected, or complemented, because these are accommodation funds, the feeding of refugees. Is it appropriate that they get only 881 million, and we know that refugees and exiled persons from Kosovo and Metohija, from Republika Srpska and Bosnia have about 800,000. That's some official data. Is it appropriate to separate only 881 million for them? This means that these are the funds that satisfy, not the needs, but that are minimal, if they are divided, it is only 1,100 dinars per year per refugee or exiled person. We believe that this item must be complemented and must be increased from these funds, which would subtract these four previous items. Unfortunately, however, these amendments have not been accepted by the Government, but we will also talk about this in the specifics law, when we discuss this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2217	The People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic has the word, and then the Messenger of the people Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2218	Ladies and gentlemen, within five minutes, MPs today have the obligation and the possibility to speak in a united principle debate about a package of tax laws, as well as the most important law the Assembly adopts annually, i.e. Budget law. The five-minute decision is the result of the mauling of the assembly's majority, resulting in an even more transparent desire for the debate to be gone. But what is there is, there is debate, and we Serbian radicals, with all the time limit for discussion, in the opportunity to present a critical court for this speaker on the intended tax laws and on the budget. As far as the budget itself is concerned, it must be stated that he is unrealistic. It's unrealistic for a number of reasons, and this time I'm going to say a few of them. First, last year was 30 billion, and this current 130 billion, four times more than last year. Where that amount will come from, if the production is almost gone, and the poverty of the population - the taxpayers are growing. Secondly, in addition to unstable sources of funding, it is projected to fill the 20 billion-billion-dollar donation budget. Which donations, from whom, from the white world, breathe money, Mr. DOS, those six billion dollars you promised the people before the elections only if they vote for you. It is obvious that this is the first budget in Serbian history to rely on the IMF, and you gentlemen have fired experts. Thirdly, since the promised reform course, the tax interventions are growing, the maltene does not have what will not be taxed, and as early as yesterday in the exposé, when the government is elected, we hear from the Chancellors the following: pay increases, improvement of social image in society, general increase in standards, elimination of unnecessary fiscal obligations. It's hard times for the economy. From a war economy in which companies have worked as much as they have, and now when it is necessary to create an environment and preconditions for its momentum, even through accelerated privatisation as one of those, we move on to the budgetary economy. For healthcare, education, pensions and especially for agriculture, budgets are provided for embarrassingly small funds and this government, if it had been expert in these areas, at least it should have doubled the amounts at the expense of other items. The budget also includes inflation movements, even higher than the projected 30%. This year's budget is four times higher than last year because it monitors inflation costs and increases public spending. Therefore, it is justified that in conditions where the economy does not work, when the donation is gone, when privatisation is delayed, when it is promised that the new printing of money will not be, that the burden of filling the budget, four times larger, will go only to the burden of the population. In any case, my finding as a MP as a member of the Serbian Radical Party is that this budget will be a burden on the population and not a common register to meet the objective needs of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2219	The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and after him is the Messenger Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2220	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today, during this session, we have heard from the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Agriculture, and even some MPs who were waving bills from the 1993 inflation age, forgetting that today's interior minister was then in a coalition with the SPS and that he was responsible for printing money, and you, for his responsibility, rewarded him so... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: About Covic? ) What, and about Covic, it is a different story and to continue, by giving him the ministerial post, so that now the minister of justice is not allowed to do anything, because this one is stronger. This one's got the police. With insight into the revenue side of the budget, as the DOS mainly discusses the part concerning budget expenditure and promises that expenditures will be just, to explain little of the revenue side of the budget. In the 2001 revenue side of the budget, 75% of the budget is filled with tax and excise funds, with the finance minister stressing that while creating tax laws and budget plans, the Romanian and Bulgarian economies have taken into account. Kind of weird. The finance minister probably does not know that because of such tax and budgetary policy, Romania sold the whole wheat last year, so now it is chasing Europe and buying the same wheat at a higher price than it sold to feed the population. The finance minister probably doesn't know that eastern Serbia is full of Romanian citizens who work as low-quality labour, who tear our wood, which dig corn, are digging our gardens. It's not just low-quality, there's even a doctor, a lawyer, a graduated engineer, and even an artist who plays chickens to make chickens wear better. Mr. Minister, if you implement such a plan, when you can implement it, you'll probably go where you came from. Mrs. Dinkic and Canak will likely organise crisis headquarters immediately, break into those chickens and play them there. Although the entire DOS music is causing all the strikes themselves, it is likely that hens will strike at that time. As for Bulgaria's economics, in our markets, we are tripping to Bulgaria, fighting for existence by smuggling goods from Bulgaria and coming here to sell it to us. It's a strange Bulgarian reform, too. It seems to me that the government gentlemen have forgotten that the budget is not filled with increased tax rates and basics and an increase in the number of taxable items. Wake up, gentlemen, full of increasing productivity. And productivity in this case, with a budget like this, is extremely endangered. Ladies and gentlemen, we can call the tax another name. We can call the tax a legal state racket. When a businessman or any citizen pays a mobster or barefoot for a racket, he expects some protection. When a taxpayer pays taxes to the state, he also expects protection. Citizens expect protection in terms of living standards, and the economy expects that protection in terms of inflation and the grey economy. The kind of tax policy the DOS is now implementing is accelerating both. The increase in tax bases reduces the possibility of a legal economy being curient compared to the grey economy, as the price difference offered by the grey economy and the legal economy will be greater. It also promotes the grey economy, and in terms of inflation, this same increase causes a drop in purchasing power of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, thus reducing production, thus increasing the cost of production per article, which is called inflation. So, with its policy, DOS in any case stimulates both inflation and the grey economy, which means that the state and government are not functioning. If you think you're carrying out a policy like this that's going to damage citizens, businesses and economies in general, you'd better give all your resignations right now than wait for us all to see for ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2221	The word has a People's MP, Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2222	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will point out a few of the qualities few of which were mentioned today at the Assembly session, which is offered by a set of budget laws proposed by the Republic Government. The first of these qualities is the removal of social functions from the economy to the budget, which means that Serbian citizens will not suffer and will not be burdened with the transition of the Serbian economy on the shoulders of Serbian citizens, but rather plans around 10 billion dinars for social care from children, predicting more than 300,000 of the most socially endangered families in Serbia. This budget allows the move of social functions into it, to establish a liberal economy, a free market, so that potential social tensions can not be resolved through the market. This budget also guarantees 12 salaries, 12 pensions, 12 children's allowances. Previous budgets during Milosevic's regime were conceived to take away the possibility for citizens to receive salaries every month. They were conceived through 11 pensions, 11 salaries, 10 child's supplements. What the government guarantees is that budget deficits will not be covered by drug trafficking, which has been sold to Serbian children, that state services will not be financed from drug trafficking. In addition, this budget for the AP Vojvodina, as part of those constitutional opportunities that are currently possible, provides for original revenues and we welcome such intensities of the Republic government and we hope that it will continue to work to increase the original powers of the AP Vojvodina, as well as to increase the original revenues of the AP Vojvodina. What it looks like at this point -- the original incomes on 5% of the personal income tax, 10% of the company's income tax, were established for the benefit of the AP Vojvodina Authority. During Milosevic's regime, the AP Vojvodina budget was only a position in the republican budget. About 395 million are planned to come out of the AP budget this way, which is, when taking into account the inflation rate that occurred in the course of last year, an increase of 20 per cent compared to the paradox under which the AP Vojvodina was financed, which amounted to 156 million last year. In addition, the Republic Government adopts some other local revenues that go in favour of the financing of the AP, the regional administrative fees, the rent on immovable property, the proceeds from the sale of immovable property, the donations, the work of the province's authorities, etc. Some 100 million dinars of potential profit for the AP can be projected from these local incomes, which along with this exemption from citizens' income tax and corporate income tax would amount to about half a billion dinars. Given that the republican budget is so well-conceived that it is not practically increased but that the inflation rate that existed last year has been measured, we conclude that the republican budget has practically not been increased because 107 billion dinars, as planned revenues in the budget this year, are approximately the inflation rates and the AP Vojvodina budget, although not enough, has been increased by more than 70%, showing that the Republic government has an understanding of Vojvodina as a momentum of the Serbian economy and as a locomotive of the Serbian economy. What is still in favour of Vojvodina, farmers in Vojvodina, but also in Serbia as a whole, is the fact that the Agrarian budget envisions 5.1 billion to stimulate agriculture, which is practically biodestroyed by the policy of the previous regime. In addition, certain tax exemptions relating to fertilisers, certain plant protection products, agricultural machinery and agricultural products sold by individual agricultural producers have been introduced. So, the government's intensity in this area is that agriculture is being stimulated, which will mean a lot to the duchy and Serbian peasants, and that more agriculture is not a source through which social tension has been reduced and social peace bought, while agriculture, during Slobodan Milosevic's regime, has been completely destroyed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2223	There is a word from MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2224	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday we had the opportunity to hear two political discussions by Prime Minister Djindjic and Minister of Agriculture Veselinov and the nightmares of Finance and Economy Minister Djelic on the proposal for tax laws. I guess it can't be more quality, because that's what the suggestions are. And these interventions, which we had the opportunity to hear today, in favour of the defence of the tax laws package, are separate from the essence, so as not to hear the truth about the proposals of these expert regulations. Prime Minister Djindjic's only true sentence is (quote): "This country is already in shock". I wonder-- what is a nation in shock? Well, here's the fact why the nation is in shock -- the nation is in shock for stopping production in 125 of Serbia's largest enterprises, which form the backbone of the Serbian economy. We have an absolute drop in production, and we're talking about the width of tax laws. Because in these 6 months there is an enormous rise in prices in the areas concerned by the largest standard of citizens, because this formal increase in earnings in the previous period is an absolute drop in living standards, because in this previous period of 5 - 6 months we have experienced a great increase in prices, so that the growth in earnings is irreparable for the rise in prices that occurred in the previous period. Because inflation is already being galloped, and because the public debate on this package of tax regulations is fostering new inflation. Because new patriotism is being introduced, Serbs are convinced to surrender themselves to The Hague tribunal, and then it appears to be brave, and those who refuse to do so are bravely arrested and extradited to those who owe us $100 billion in damages. The finance minister said -- this is high-level reform. I'd say this is before high-risk reform. Because this is about cutting taxes and fees, and I think this reform will have the character of a cut, and the cuts we had, as far as I think, in 1948. I could argue with more details about the laws we're going to have to discuss in the next few days. It can also be said that the pre-election promise of DOS is whether decentralisation will take place, that the municipalities will receive more money and that they will be able to dispose freely of these funds. It does not stand as a fact, but it is an absolute centralisation, which is being accelerated by many legal solutions in a package of regulations that we are discussing these days, and we will talk about it when amendments are on the agenda. Agriculture -- there's something going on and on and on and on and on. I quote, it's said here and the following: "This law sends a terrible message to our peasants." I'll say exactly what she looks like when the tax settlements arrive. Pension insurance will be 4.662 per member, the difference will be 800 dinars last year, health insurance will be 2,000 dinars per household. When you put together, for a four-member family, you need to prepare up to 1,000 marks. With previous debts, it will be approximately 3 to 4 thousand household assignments. Those are the truths and that must be known. Therefore, the Socialists will submit tomorrow a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension Insurance of Farmers and the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Insurance Act, in order to at least save something from this tax reform, i.e. so that Serbian citizens do not experience cataclysm and go into tax ejaculation. The gray economy - it is true that there is a part of the intention that this gray economy is being controlled, but definitely, and you can't see what law and quality it will do. And you can't see, given the growth in the percentage of taxation in various areas, in various tax regulations, this can only mean the following -- that a good part of the economy will go, private and social, to go to the gray economy, to preserve how -- so the credibility of business, and the other part will go to tax ejaculation. This will do the largest number of citizens, because they won't be able to pay tax laws. And finally, cynicalally from this pay phone, it sounds like a message -- when the unions have something to say, let them come to the government. I think it made sense to ask the unions and talk to the trade unions about a tax bill project. This is not a sentence that we and the Socialists would like any union, but unions represent the largest layers of citizens from different areas of tax regulations, which will be covered by these laws and we should have heard those groups, because they have something to say about this package of laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2225	There's a word from MP Zhivanko Radovanchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2226	The Honorable President, respected ministers, honourable MPs, the 2001 bill on the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget is primarily the most important law in this assembly session, both for the government and the state, and for citizens who are full of the budget. As it has always been, so this time it is, we fill the budget, all of us, and it is spent by the chosen, or chosen. That's how it's everywhere in the world. For citizens, this budget law is very important, as they charge it through income taxes, property taxes, sales taxes, excise taxes and other procedures. This matter will be clearer to the citizens after the end of this assembly session, when we adopt a package of tax laws, or when faced with tax payments or higher product prices, or more expensive lives. Foreign budgetary spending is the government's autonomous right to propose to the National Assembly and to be adopted by the National Assembly, with the power of the ruling majority. From the proposal to allocate budgets by individual positions, we can recognise the government's mood to focus more or less on individual spending areas. If judged by that, we can conclude that agriculture is the pastor of this government. How else to conclude if the participation of the Agrarian budget position in the Republic of Serbia's budget was reduced from 4.7%, as projected in 2000, to 3.9% in the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001. How do you explain the proposed participation of the Agricultural Budget in the Republic of Serbia's budget is only 3.9% and the participation of the agricultural population in the total population is 19%? That the relation of the participation of the Agricultural Budget in the Republic of Serbia's budget is accompanied by the participation of the agrarian population in the country's total population by the current agriculture minister, Mr Vesenov, in the framework of last year's debate. I believe that Mr. Vesenov is in the same position today and I am convinced that it is not his inconsistency, but, I would say, his inability to vote for agriculture a priority and understanding in the government of the importance of agricultural production for the overall rapid development of our economy. It seems that this understanding in the government doesn't exist, or at least it doesn't have enough. How do we explain so little the participation of the Agricultural Budget in the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget, if we know that the participation of agriculture and food industries in the formation of the country's social product is about 40% and only primary agricultural production is 16%? Did the Government, proposing this kind of Agrarian budget, remain only on verbal recognition and understanding of the situation and contributions of agriculture and agricultural producers, free to say, the preservation of the state and its dignity. Is this the kind of Agrarian budget that confirms that confession? Did agriculture deserve the government's attitude towards her? If it is resentful and estimated that the previous government was a bit of a trade, then surely this current government, which would say in the area where I come from, is a bit of a gentlemen's government, which feels more of a city and Belgrade asphalt than a fertile black woman, a village and peasants. It is easy to come to this conclusion, listening to individual members of the government, who see the country's developmental chance in large metal complexes, the automotive industry, the electronic industry, rather than in the faster and more serious development of agriculture. The message from the field to this topic is that we lost the world race in these areas of decoration 10, 20 or 30 years ago, and that the greatest chance and locomotive of our country's development and society, alongside energy and tourism, agriculture and food industries. When it comes to agriculture, it is also a message to the ministers of the federal, republican and rural levels that it is good to differ in their opinions if the fight leads to the interest of agriculture and farmers. It's bad if three ministers can't agree on ordinary things, and the consequence is that we have a lack of mineral fertilisers, different and unfavourable parity for replacing mineral fertilisers for wheat and a lot of unresolved issues. Yugoslavia is, to remind, a small country, very small to have three agrarian policies and three ministers, which are very difficult to coordinate or perhaps talk through information funds, and one too difficult, but for agriculture an extremely unfavourable monetary authority that does not concern financing agricultural production at all, as if by means of these monetary policies we should encourage the agriculture of Romania, Hungary or Bulgaria. Finally, a general assessment and comment on the proposal for a law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001. (President: time. It is unreasonable of this government that agriculture is not interested in it at all. This assessment is irrevocably confirmed by the amounts foreseen for the measures in this area. It is unreasonable that this government is so easily denied that Serbia, first of all, is a agricultural country and that each of its more serious developments is conditioned by the previous rapid development of agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2227	The People's MP Miroslav Mircic has the word, followed by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2228	Mr. President, I'm Milorad Mircic. And Mira Markovic tried to cross me into Miroljub, so you see how my godmother ended up. Don't end up like that. (President: She's your godmother? ) One who gives you a name is usually referred to by the Serbs as a godfather. I don't know what it's like with you. The draft budget law, proposed by the Serbian government, we criticise Serbian radicals, disputed on the basis of facts, argued, following an analysis of the proposal. What is normal for one opposition party to do, at this point we Serbian radicals are doing right now in the Assembly. It is also understood that the government defends its proposal. The extent of the opposition’s argument and challenge to this act, on the other hand, is to realistically expect the Government, or representatives of the Government, to also artumentally defend this act, to realistically explain all these items that they have proposed in the budget. Discussing the methodology applied by the Government in this case is not very recommended for the simple reason that each government has some discretionary right to apply methodologies and methods that it considers to be good. But basically every government should bear in mind, when it makes such an act, what is the economic situation in Serbia, what is the economic potential or strength of taxpayers, what is the standard of the population and what is the pay or purchasing power. With the projection of presumed inflation and the growth of the social product, the government is setting up an indicative budget plan. And this government basically used those methodologies. He has the right, too, to design, as an important factor, the inflation they predict, as they have the right to project the revenue side, i.e. the revenue side, and this other side, the expenditure side. We Serbian radicals have generally made an indignity and have argued that this side of income is not real. The government defended this by claiming it was realistic, that they are based on an analysis of the overall economic situation and on their forecasts of possible investments that should happen in Serbia quite realistic to achieve this budget revenue. What we as the opposition party have pointed out is that it is commendable to cut the tax interest, because it is methodologically much better, it is technically much simpler with the same interest rate to calculate all the obligations that taxpayers have, and there is no slow. As it criticises itself, so should something be commended. Then we attended the defense of this legal act by the Prime Minister. He's told us already known stories that we've been listening to for three or four weeks on all the TVs, from all the studios where he's been able to defend this bill. His defense could briefly be reduced to a social demagogue, where he simply says you can, gentlemen, discuss this, but you have to understand that even one who wants to have cheap electricity has to make sure he's a well-paid miner. Such social demagogy after Joseph Broz, in Kragujevac on the Red Barrack, no one has said anything from this pay phone yet, because it was a whole strategy at the time, to have a conflict between consumers, in this case, and miners. He who is the most guilty, the Government, is there in between, and she will intercede. This could be justified so that no further influence on such demagogy can be seen in this legal act. It is said that this legal act will satisfy the needs of educators. A number of 150,000 educators is taken, a sum that is set aside on behalf of their personal incomes, divided by the number of educators and clearly comes to an account that they will not be kept promise, a real salary increase of 40%. (President: time. ) Maybe nominally, but realistically - not at all. But it doesn't bother the Minister of Education, Sports and Youth to make statements and their opinions on the budget, as the budget, imagine that philosophical thought, "the budget is the pocket of the people". Where's this Gasho? He's drinking again. He's a little -- a little bit, so he goes to drink, instead of listening. He doesn't say, and he doesn't mean that your hand, gentlemen, is up to his shoulder in that pocket. As far as the other legislative proposals are concerned, it is that we have listened to the proposal of the Agricultural Budget here on the exposés or the presentation of the newly appointed minister. Nothing new from him, except he changed his hair color for a shade. It's a four-wheeler. He uses it all the time. (President: Please finish. ) He told us that he had found a shortage in the stock reserves, that he was a witness to a thief, a criminal, but he did not tell us who did it. It'd be better if he was painted like that for this pay phone and told the villagers what happened to that artificial fertilizer, what did you do with 20,000 tons of artificial fertilizer. Instead of explaining across Vojvodina and Serbia how you will allocate funds to buy straw, so cows can eat straw. You still don't know cows eat hay. At least learn that. Your coalition partners are calling you that you committed crime in the purchase of artificial fertilizer, and you, through your MPs, are spreading your story that Dinkic and Djindjic have not opened up an credential, but have bought artificial fertilizer through their company, and are now holding it in stock, to wait for a favourable parity and to become rich in the sale of wheat. It's better, Minister, get out, tell the whole public and tell the MPs what's the problem with the supply of artificial fertilizer. [[Applause radically.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2229	The People's MP Jovan Todorovic has the word, and after him, MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2230	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and gentlemen of the Ministers, we will rarely have more important legislative projects on the agenda than we have at this meeting right now. Unfortunately, we have a short time to talk about all these legal projects, but I will try to make a few observations in five minutes, which I think are important, and at the same time try and suggest some solutions to our Mr. Djelic. First, when looking at the budget, every MP and every businessman should see at least three things from it, at least in terms of economic policy that will be led in 2001, then see what social policy will be like in the end, but not least, whether there is development, development policy. Unfortunately, this draft budget does not provide me as a businessman enough arguments that in this year, an incentive economic policy will be led, in the sense that we will first take the first step before the second one, which means reviving the economy and thus creating a base base for the collection of funds to be filled with this budget. Assumptions that on the basis of increased consumption, we will be able to achieve increased budgeting could stand, but in some other countries that are much more developed than we are and where the consumer power of the population is wherever and where it is greater. At this level of our man's consumer capacity, our host, we are unable to fill this budget without having adequate incentives for the economy. I don't particularly like it, because the Development Fund is so underrated that we can talk about symbolic means in the Development Fund. Half a billion, not even enough for my password "Viscosis", so it's something like 16 million marks, and it's supposed to be on the obligation of this government and everyone else who thinks about the economy that companies like "Viscosis" and, above all, encourage it because it's developed-oriented production and because it requires relatively small means of resuscitation. And employs more than 7,000 people who would be able to speed up their activities, by receiving profits and spending on the market to fill this budget properly. Secondly, which seems to me, and I think all MPs would be more pleased, if they knew, what are we going to do with these 7 billion, which are called an incentive to the economy, and they're meant for the road economy and the railways. In doing so, of course, I think it would be good for all taxpayers to know whether these funds will continue to build a Belgrade node, whether the construction of the Valjevo-Loznica railway will continue or how we Loznica like to say, Loznica - Valjevo, because we have one consistent and I think a legitimate requirement for the construction of the railway to start from Loznica. And not just to build a railroad, but because construction and construction work is the momentum that can first pull all other industries, employ a large number of workers and allow this economy to stand on healthy feet and at the very least use the capacity of 50%. When I talk about incentive, I noticed in the budget a minor item relating to tourism incentives. Please, Mr. Minister, 18 million dinars as an incentive to tourism is a negligible item, and we know that, with agriculture, tourism is our only comparative advantage in terms of our environment and relative to the real possibilities of faster resuscitation and growth. The question is, I would like to keep your attention, given that my time is running out a little bit, and that is one suggestion I would suggest to Mr Djelic - to give up the proposal of this way of forming gross earnings and collecting contributions and taxes on those profits. Why? Because a warm meal has never been or will be made by workers. That, Mr. Djelic, is in the West, and so is the cost of production. Therefore, we should not treat it in this way and, among other things, because we also pay taxes on the marketing of products and services when buying groceries for a warm meal. If you say it's a profit now, then I say the worker should take it in his pocket, and when he gets in his pocket, the martyr won't eat it at work, but he'll use it to settle his other obligations, like schooling kids, feeding his family, paying for an increased price of electricity, etc. We will come to the fact that we do not have a realistic biological reconstruction of the workforce, a darely warm meal serves to restore the workforce during working hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2231	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2232	Next, how transportation can be a personal reception of workers, when it is a service that someone has already performed and charged for that service tax. Or a tax supplement for construction workers working on the ground -- and a field supplement serves to cover increased costs on the ground. This is neither a salary nor a basis for tax and contribution that could be used to fill the budget. So when you set things up, then it'll turn out that we've increased workers' salaries by 50 or 60%, and to that we applied the 80% base, and I've calculated that according to all the parameters, we're actually going to have more outages by more than 15% on the average earnings of 5,000 dinars, adding these costs of a warm meal, transportation or a field allowance for construction firms. So there's no talking about unloading, if this is how the gross profit base is applied. So I would suggest you give up that proposal, because we haven't even come to this level of salary yet, detaching for the corresponding taxes and contributions on the basis of which we would charge this budget. Just one more thing to say, I apologize to Mr. President, I've been over time, please Mr. Djelic knows that services are being encouraged everywhere in the world. That from mainly product and activity actually trends take place so that they go into services. We are now doing a counterproductive business here, taxing services by 20%, as well as products used in final consumption, so I ask you who will go into service. It is realistic to expect that there is at least a demand for initial capital to form a private company, a stock company or I don't know what else, which would be in a situation where it actively attracts on the market and fills these budgets that you're talking about here. This destimulated consumption, i.e. the use of services, which means there won't be any of this tax that you expect. So, you started the budget... (President: I ask you to finish. ....................................................................................................... tourism expectations. Just in the end, donations of 12 billion dinars, which are to be financed by this budget deficit, so 400 million marks, are not safe. That's why you didn't put them in the proceeds. Is there any morals in those of our donors, foreign ones, who bombed us, and whether there is finally morals with the government and that he is unable to ensure on these grounds that these 400 million marks, too, will fill the budget or reduce the budget deficit.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2233	The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word, followed by the MP, Mihajlo Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2234	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a very short time Serbia has experienced two of the greatest frauds. The first fraud is an October DOS revolution or a "bager revolution", when the Serbian people are seduced by promised donations from abroad of six billion dollars and a major improvement. The second scam is today the adoption of a package of laws on the taxation of citizens and property. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, instead of the government having passed the laws, how to save this people from hunger, winter, darkness and misery, it still makes laws to further deepen and poverty. When the government passed the bill, it's not a consultation union, they don't need it now, and when they came to power, they used their cross-crisis headquarters, through choirs, through rallys to come to power, and today these unions have become social victims. Realising that they have been deceived, Serbian citizens are increasingly unhappy with the government's work and policy and are increasingly seeing that the only Serbian Radical Party, the right alternative party and the only party that can expose this power. Instead of discussing Serbia's final bill for 2000, we are actually vice versa, adopting the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget. These are again some revolutionary actions to attack the previous government and its work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to refer to the 2001 budget. First of all, I'd say health issues, education expenditures, agrarian expenditures, social security expenditures and child care. Health care expenditures should increase 100%, that's why. First, it's about salaries, means of maintenance of appliances and facilities in the hospital and fighting cancer and AIDS. When I said the means to maintain the apparatus and facilities in the hospital, the other day I was at the Shabački hospital in hell I poured a glass of water to the patient, I had to be bathed. Educational expenditures to increase double due to the quality of teaching and increasing standards of students and educators. These days we are all familiar with the strike of educational workers and their fraud by Mr. Minister of Education and Sports Gaša Knezevic. Expenses for agrarian, most importantly, everyone talked about him a lot, and I don't think many of them actually know how to distinguish a lamb from a calf, or anything else, so they can talk about agriculture competently. In order to stimulate agricultural production, all restrictions on the sale of agricultural products should be lifted. If we look at the seed situation, the government has so far not helped agrarian by lending and various reliefs. The government is today proposing to exclude garbage, plant protection and feed from the sales tax, benefits for machinery. This should have been done before by a government regulation, as it did with the solidarity logs, not by the majority of the peasants, or, according to the federal minister, farmers, they were supplied with goods earlier and so being robbed and deceived. The peasant is a national hero, the only fighter worker who makes everything for others, and uses a minimum. Everyone swears to the peasants and the farm, everyone promises him when he's sown and harvested, and when he goes through, they forget him quickly. The 40-litre-regreed oil the government has promised is now down to 25 liters, but it's gone at all. Only we all know that investing in agriculture is such an investment that is only fertilized and returned. Only the milkers think of the farmer and they only helped him to obtain a repromaterial for sowing and fertilizer, because the government did not pay for the regression, or milk premium January and February. To inform the Prime Minister that the mineral fertiliser factory in Sapac has begun to work, although Mr. President said on his tour that it was archaeological value. I would also like to inform the Minister of Agriculture of Veselinov and tell him that the quality of the fertilizer produced in the shaba factory is better and cheaper than imported. The imported fertilizer is the quality of three eights, and the fertilizer produced by Zorka is three 15s, and three sixteens can be said. Gentlemen, this speaker, Mr. Agriculture Minister said he helped, that the government has supported the fertilizer factory in Panchev. So, therefore, there are four fertilizer factories in the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, and only two in southern Serbia. Today, 60-year-olds work in the fields of the Sword and Srema, and you don't know who's older - peasant or mechanized. That is why I have suggested that the budget be increased twice, that the young return to the country and the machinery be restored. Social protection and childcare expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, the inhabitants of this country have become social cases. Factorys do not work, salaries are not received, many refugees from Kosovo, Croatia and Bosnia. That's why I think these expenditures are increasing. Now I'd like to look back at the rate of taxation. If it is considered that the tax rate for services from 12% went to 20% and went to the trading stock at 28%, it can be seen that production operations are at risk compared to trading and smuggling houses. The budget is surreal and inflation, and that's why we won't vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2235	The word has Minister Djelic, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2236	Dear President, honourable MPs, fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank everyone for their suggestions and ideas. There were some exhibitions coming out of the subject, but there were a lot of useful things. There was even a compliment. He's not personal to me, but he's a compliment to an entire crew who's been working without a doubt for weeks and I want to thank them again today for having these texts, this budget and this tax reform. I'd like to explain one six points in these 10 minutes and answer the main points and remarks that have come out of this two-day discussion. This won't be the last time, I'll address you two more times, if I read the Rules of Procedure correctly. The first question was to pour this budget too big, is this something big that our economy won't be able to handle. The answer is no. Can we compare what happened last year to this? No, I don't. Last year we had one budget and someone said 31 billion today, but there's another 15 billion special accounts, another 5 billion of our own incomes from various organisations, not to mention we've had billions more losses from the EPS, which are actually a quasi-fiscal deficit. Because instead of the state, as we've provided this year's budget, there are some subsidies, and for those cases, she's simply tried and passed it over those backs, not to mention those bills without the innkeepers who went through the stock reserves or pac to those business banks that were simply flow water heaters for state policy and in fact one political summit that gave orders to the National Bank to print money. She passed it on to a business bank, which then gave to selected companies, without any competition for that money, but perhaps for some elected, closer authorities, so that they could manage to do something in these companies without others being able to reach those funds. Of course, those funds haven't returned, and that's why we have such a disaster in the banking sector, somewhere around six billion marks is a hole in that plan, and not to mention the Development Fund, where we know of course nothing will come back. Not to mention huge hypocrisy, which is that the Development Fund, a few years ago, borrowed, repeated -- borrowed, 500 million marks from the PIO Fund, as if in any country some pension fund could ever repay such a loan. It happened and it's going to happen today, and we're gonna fix it. That's how these public finances were run. When you look at today's budget and this whole public spending, in terms of the percentage of gross national income and, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the public, we have to stop talking about social product, I'm sorry, social production, we have to introduce gross national income as a whole of Europe, that is to say we're talking about it and we see that this year we're going to be way below 50%, about 44%. Last year, when you calculate all of this and you factor it all in, and we're not going to count on what we talked about, and 19 billion delays, delays, and some MPs were saying today -- three-year delay for peasant pensions, two years for child benefits, 20 billion delays last year, which we were able to partially resuscitate in the last quarter, if you add all of this, all of it was somewhere between 55 and 60% of the gross national income of the incident of the economy this year. This year, thanks to our success with a slightly better budget implementation, last year's donations and greater discipline to return some honor and to watch more responsibly what public spending was, and many of my colleagues know how difficult these discussions were and how closely we followed and watched every penny to be spent for that purpose and, of course, that the money was not enough, but we managed to reduce that procedure. First question - do we get any more? No, I don't. Less. Much more responsible. We saw that last year, every time we looked at it, and you're going to get that final account report in three to four weeks, you're going to see that every time there was a special and dedicated fee, there were the biggest problems and there was the most non-purpose, and there was the most mixing. That's why we ended it, and we're going to have much more control over everything that's going on. The second question that was today, that's -- and why do we have the deficit? We have been the only European country so far, and Moldova, and Romania, and Bulgaria, and I will get to those countries, which has not shown the truth, and the truth, I have already given it, it is that last year we had deficits and what kind. This year, for the first time, we show the truth and we say today's country plans to have a budget deficit and it's consolidated, with a variety of funds of 22 billion dinars. Of which 10 will be covered by privatisation and 12 from expected donations and loans. The question then arises - and what happens if these revenues are not materialized, if there is no privatisation, if there are no donations and loans? Of course, there's a backup variant. We're responsible for power, we know in what order we're going to cut expenses, and of course those things that will remain, these are salaries, pensions, social security for those who are most vulnerable and of course for what it takes for our judiciary, that our police and what we support, as far as the military is concerned, still works. In that order we go, and that's the right way for a responsible state. So, the deficit for the first time, like every normal country we show and we know what we're going to do in case there aren't any of those funds that we predicted today, I believe they will be, and so on. I even believe, and there has been a discussion that if our country's international position doesn't deteriorate in the next few weeks, we'll have a donor conference, which we're working on, and we're going to have additional significant funding for the financing of many capital projects in our country, whether it's agriculture or construction, whether in energy or not, and I'm not talking about other segments like the judiciary, where we really should have more, and that's one important and key place for our country, without talking about local self-government, and I'm not talking about the police. Because, believe me, I'd be one of the luckiest people if we could find the means through which we could rebuild one of the bombed buildings, get our own police back into their rooms, we don't have the kind of expensive leases they live in anymore. That's the key thing. We have a deficit to be like Europe, to be like a normal country and to run public finances in a perfectly normal way. The third question was, will there be inflation? The answer is yes. We planned 30% inflation this year, of which is 10% of those core inflations, and 20% is already scheduled for the removal of price disparity, electricity, which we also talked about several foods. As you can see, there are communals and there's already something done in the first quarter. I must say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at the next session of the session, will take on giving its consent to raise the price of municipal services, because there were few uncoordinated moves in the plan at the local level. So, we not only predicted inflation, but we even calculated what should come into the form of inflation through the removal of price disparity, and even these tax reforms. We've calculated and already talked to a lot of people from the store, and those big nets, and their calculations are like ours. Now, when we postpone the application of this sales tax to communals by the beginning of next year, the effect will be about 3.6%, and inflation towards us may be about 3.8 to 4% once from next month. So we predicted that inflation, and it seems to me that it's much more fair than projecting, as it was projected in the 2000 budget, to be zero inflation. What did we get? We got 113%. Where did 113% come from? It's because some prices have been syphilically released and those who today are trying to teach that there may be some one-time inflation of 3.6% due to some tax reform, and in October last year they dropped everything they held for years and caused 275% inflation in October, 17% in November, I don't think that's fair and not responsible. That's why I think this budget, projected with 12 salaries, with 12 children's allowances, 12 pensions, and we'll keep it at any cost, much fairer than last year, with so-called zero inflation, but with 11 pensions because it was so designed and started. At the beginning, it was planned to break laws, passed by law, recognise the rights of our citizens to pay only 11 pensions, just 11 salaries, just 11 child allowances. It didn't work out either, and it was late, as I said, two years for child benefits, three years for peasant pensions, 26 months for those in the most difficult material position. That kind of irresponsible policy we don't want to lead. I want to say the fourth thing, that's whether this budget and this kind of tax reform will have an effect on the standard of citizens. After all, and believe me, that's the only criterion for any policy, even for the one we're leading here today. At some point, it's the only way we can see if we made it or not. It is certain that these tax reforms, at last, will remove something that is unique for our country in Europe, and that we have been a tax haven for those rich. In our country, you could live with someone, maybe even more private firms, where you haven't shown any profits in years, and where you have a jeep, you have a yacht, you have a villa, you have an apartment abroad, and you don't pay a single dime with our taxes. That's the end of it. This time we're gonna watch closely what's going on here and we're gonna have a progressive attitude in taxing these people. As for the middle layer, the middle layer will not have an effect because this transition always goes into his hands, and the poorest ones, we have provided them through these child's supplements, we will provide them with additional funds, through the social fund for one-time assistance, and there we will help those families who receive child accessories, additionally when the time comes for textbooks, for children's clothing. We're going to help them, not through so-called demagogue and some lower prices for everyone, so rich people pay the same price as those poor. It's a demagogy and it's not the right way to run one policy. Tax policy is tax policy, and it needs to provide funding for social policy, and we have four times as much provided funding for this very social policy and we will respect it. In the end, I just want to say, the budget can't do everything and it's obvious. He's only one, perhaps key, but one of the main elements of economic policy is not the only one. After all this, and budgets and taxes, the only priority is economics. Of course, we have 22 billion in our budget to encourage the economy. It's a lot more than the previous years. We've got an Agrarian budget that's much more pro-pulsory than last year. What do we want? We don't have a magic wand. I can tell you, and that's our show, that with this budget, these tax laws, and what we expect in a few months, it won't be easy, but this is Serbia on the move, the dynamics are on our side. She's not just on the side of some government, she's on Serbia's side. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-28-0.u2237	By exposing Minister Djelic, we have completed today's work. The session will be held tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please begin your work. We continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. We'll continue our work at 10:30. [[Resume session at 10:30.]] I understand we have the quorum needed to resume the session. I am informing the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Muja Muković, Nedi Arnerić, Radoj Simic, Zivica Predojev, Jožefu Kasi, Dragan Vuksic, Miloš Radivojčević, Karol Kermeci, Zoran Novaković, Dragan Šutanovac, Marko Đurišic, Srđa Popovic, Marko Jaksic, Vuk Antonijevic and Bojan Kostreš. The delay was reported by Novica Djuraskovic, Pal Shandor, Ljubvoje Slavkovic, Dragan Rafailović and Predrag Bajčetic. I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to be attended by the President, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We're continuing a joint search. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - THE COMMUNITY PREPARATION REFERRED TO ON THE PROPOSAL OF BUDGET LAW AND THE GROUP OF FOLLOWING LAWS (addition)
