ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10860	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will read to you my amendment, since it is short: Article 1 is changed and it reads: "The state holiday of the Republic of Serbia is the day of Serbia's statehood, the mention of the day of the start of the first Serbian uprising. Serbia's statehood day is celebrated on February 15th." Yesterday, I stressed that there was no need, according to our Constitution, to mention on behalf of the state holiday a church holiday. That's not even possible. The government's argument that it has rejected this amendment is that it calls for a commission composed of prominent scientific and public workers, etc. I was interested in what these members were, I looked for the Official List, and when I saw who the board members were, it was perfectly clear to me that we would get the law we got. But I won't comment on it any further. However, the matter is much more serious. Ladies and gentlemen, by voting or not voting for this amendment, you are solving a much bigger issue, which is: how will Serbia continue to develop? Whether this country will be a secular, lay, modern European state or be a clerical church. If you refuse my amendment, then you open one path that Serbia should not go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10861	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10862	With all due respect to Professor Velimir Simonovic, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group cannot support his amendment because we believe that although there are shortcomings in it, the text of the amendment adopted yesterday (meaning the Pal Shandora amendment) is better than this. When a certain state holiday is called "The Meeting", it's not clericalism. It doesn't touch anything in secularism. Secularism is the form of a political system in which the state is as an institution, as the most general political institution separate from the church in terms of functioning (by one of the Social Democratic Union MPs). You Social Democratic Union don't know anything. You would Serbia if you "disprove" it and reverse it. To introduce her decade as a lifestyle and what destroyed both the Roman Empire and Greek civilization. That's why you don't need to get involved in that debate. That is why it is much better to define here the festival of constitutionality, the point being to adopt the Constitution, the Sretenjski Constitution, the first constitution, because, although the first Serbian uprising was the most impressive Serbian uprising, especially in the 19th century and with the most extensive consequences, Serbs were raising a large number of uprisings during the centuries-long Turkish occupation. Whenever a Christian army from the West fought with the Turks and went through Serbia, the Serbs co-operated with the uprising and joined and suffered badly when those armies retreated, and that led to the most mass eviction. So, there can't be a point on statehood day - the uprising. On the day of statehood, the point can be the formation of a state, or another symbol, which symbolizes a complete light of state only. This could possibly be the day of the uprising in that sense. The Day of Uprising is yet a communist category, with an ideological sound, something that has been misused for 50 years in the worst possible way, but that we need a day of constitutionality is more than a fact. Many European nations have a day of constitutionality, some record it by the day of the constitution, and some by the day of the first constitution. It is much more natural for it to be at the day of the first constitution, and the argument that Serbia was at that time very small, that it included not full Belgrade Pashaluk, has no meaning and cannot be used as a serious argument in this debate, because the constitution does not mention what Serbia is, but what the nature of its state arrangement is. Serbia has more reason to be proud of its first constitution, because it was the most liberal in Europe of that time and because both the Russian emperor and the Austrian emperor and the Turkish Sultan saw the danger of such a constitution, from ideas that would be heated with such a constitution, could enter into other countries and even into large empires. That is why I once again plead to the congregation's majority that this first member should be rephrase, that it be a day of constitutionality, and a day of statehood to be the day of the Holy Sava, also a day of spirituality. That's what I'll talk about when it comes to amendments, which apply to that member. In this case, the most important is this constitutionality. The constitution as a principle, liberal constitutionality as a view of the world, as the beginning of democratic traditions in Serbia, because democratic traditions in Serbia were created by opposing the representative, legislative body, the self-will of Karadjordja and Milos. Our democracy has also been created by people's opposition to both the one and the other and their absolute ambitions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10863	Anyone else want a word? The basis for the replica? [[Velimir Simonovic seeks the right to reply.]] (Velimir Simonovic, from the post: I am mentioned. ) Please, there is a word from MP Velimir Simonovic, a replica to the presentation of MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10864	Mr. Seselj doesn't have to explain to me what a secular state is, you know what it is, and it's clearly defined by our constitution. And besides, if there was a representative of the government here and he could do it, and he wanted to do it, it would be best if my colleague Pal Shandor and I, and a representative of the government, wrote that first member as it should be. A little bit of this out of the text, a little of Pal Shandor and a little of me, and it'll be a good member. And besides, the Sretenjski Constitution, which was brought in 1835, is popularly called the Sretenjski Constitution, and its real name is the Constitution of the Library of Cerbija. We call it the popular Happy Constitution, but its official name is the Constitution of the Library of Servia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10865	Anyone else want a word? ( He doesn't want to. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. I ask the messengers to plead. For 45, against 89, abstentions 6, 30 of the 170 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I also remind you that yesterday the National Assembly accepted the amendment of Parliamentarian Pal Shandore to Article 1, thereby changing the basic text of the law by accepting this amendment and having that fact in mind yesterday. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, since the National Assembly adopted by majority of votes yesterday the amendment to Pal Shandora, which in a similar way tries to change Article 1, I assume that these were agreed by the ruling majority and that most of them will not take note of the amendment MPs from the opposition parties, but it is my duty to explain the motives that led me when I tried to correct the really bad text of Article 1. It's a bill of law. I don't think an amendment to a certain size has ever done that. So, the state holiday of the Republic of Serbia (now I guess that member is) is the Meeting. I don't know why the billmaker left out the word "Lord." The meeting is known exclusively as the Meeting of the Lord. In our people, the word Meeting a shadow in another occasion does not benefit. It can be a meeting, happiness, any other word, but the word Meeting is bound exclusively to February 15th and to the Meeting of the Lord. I don't think that's an observation to end up in religious fundamentalism, clericalism. When the Prime Minister is not baptized in any church, it is sufficient for you to know that this country, except that individuals will pretend to be committed to the Serbian Orthodox Church and thus try to repent of the sins they have committed lately, no other way will fall under suspicion that the state will go the way no country in the 21st century will ever go again. But what are you going to do, the government is afraid of an epidemic of hemorrhagic fever, maybe thinking that one of the MPs is going to pass the virus on to members of the government, and there's no one else in the first benches. The question arises -- is the government even interested in this proposed law, did all of its jobs end, when Vidovdan defiled, the greatest Serbian day? So, we should put in the name of the word - Meeting the Lord and look more at the Happy Constitution, which was so good, written in French models, so liberal so modern, that neither Mahmut II nor Emperor Nikolai I dared admit it, even Emperor Nikolai I, who was a patron.... Did you throw anything? (conversation of the Chairman).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10867	No, I don't. I ask the People's MPs not to receive from the MPs' benches and not to hold a debate on the route of the payphones - the parliamentary bench. It's our duty.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10868	We should be proud of that constitution, which has limited the will of the rulers, even though the declared ruler has accepted that the people limit his will, the MPs have confirmed it by oaths. Perhaps this should have been introduced into the bill, too, perhaps it would have been good for us to swear here at times to our people, because some of the MPs forget about the people and think exclusively about the interests of some other peoples. They don't mean the Serbian people. So I suggest you take this bill one more time, and you might as well take a closer look at this session. It has a basis for it to be a good law, which would be acceptable to everyone, to be accepted by MPs because this is the right way and way to resolve in the Serbian Parliament. I do not accept your praises that a commission has been working, so it has made a bill, with which everyone will be pleased. Even DOS MPs do not know who were members of the commission and then the question arises who chose the commission and who verified its work before it entered the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as a bill, but there are a lot of former communists in that commission, according to Article 1. A bill that reads: "Memory of the day the beginning of the first Serbian uprising was declared". It's like when the Communist Party declared the uprising against the Germans on July 4th, moving to Zvecanska Street to one room, they agreed to declare the beginning of the uprising and that the people had already fought against the Germans several months before that, they were not interested.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10869	Anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10870	I would support Parliamentarian Tomislav Nikolic's efforts, and I think it would be extremely deplaceable to discuss whether it is a violation of secularism, if the name of a particularly religious holiday is determined by this law as a day of statehood or a day of constitutionality. Now the point here is whether or not secularism is being trampled. I'm going to try for this short time period of four and a half minutes to explain that absolutely no secularist principle is at stake. First, when our ancestors raised up the uprising, they deliberately chose the Meeting of the Lord. The chieftains of the people called for the meeting of the people of the LORD to rise up to the uprising. Then, when Serbia's first constitution was passed by the first Serbian constitution, they purposely did so on the day of the Lord's Meeting. They wanted some kind of symbolism in that way. Serbia has never been a theocratic state. There is only one period, theocratic period in our history, which is under Turkish occupation, when the Serbian people had autonomy within the Turkish Empire, since Turkey was a theocratic state, in which religion and state were absolutely not separated. Serbs had church-religious autonomy that had many attributes of state autonomy. We've had attempts by the state authorities to interfere with church issues, and that's what secularism is about. We had this under King Alexander and under Joseph Broz Tito. When the United Serbian Orthodox Church was united after World War I, the Holy Archaeological Parliament elected the first patriarch, Patriarch Dimitri and King Alexander annulled the election, and after one year, confirmed the Patriarch's choice. Under Tito, we know that the Communist Party has interfered with the Serbian Patriarch's choice, a secular, police-dedicated route, but rather effective in certain periods. Now that we reaffirm the principle of secularism, we must bear in mind that the state must be as separate from the church as the church from the state, but it has nothing to do with church holidays. This is about secularism as an institution. The church is among other things a social institution, also one of the most general, but it has nothing to do with national holidays. One church holiday has nothing to do with the church as an institution and that's the essence. In this case, meeting is important because of symbolism, not because of religious importance. We have other holidays that are purely religious, such as Christmas, Easter, etc. This is not purely religious, at least not in this particular definition, which is why it needs to be mentioned as it originally means it. If we law-abiding Serbs, not only do we not mind the traditions of the old Serbian faith, but we are proud of them, then the Serbs of other religions, Catholics or Muslims should not hesitate, nor should they be ashamed of their old faiths, their great-grandfathers' faiths, Orthodox faiths. It also belongs to their tradition, and it is an element from their past, from their history, which should be proud, as we Orthodox Serbs respect Islam as a religion, Catholic religion, so they should respect Orthodox religion, even more, because their ancestors once belonged to that religion. Thus, it does not touch anyone’s religious sense and religious rights, nor does any religion be given priority in the beginning. In this case, it is something that has a historical meaning, a historical meaning, and Serbian political representatives of that time and when they were raising the uprising, when they were making a constitution, they had it in mind, and they wanted it to be precisely on the day of the Lord's Meeting.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10871	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 33, against 117 abstentions, 17 did not vote 10, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10872	Dear People's MPs, my amendment almost coincides with Professor Simonovic's amendment. I think it's not quite an accident, because we're a colleague's profession, and maybe it's coming from that. In my amendment, I suggested that the proposed text simply delete the word Meeting. I don't think it's necessary for a national holiday to name the holiday name of a single confession. Since Professor Simonovic's amendment was rejected, I suggest you do the same with my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10873	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10874	These DOS protests have been calculated allegedly to avoid a debate. Parliament exists that the government could not regulate the rules of life on its own and that the government would not have absolute authority. Here the insistence on removing the religious holiday marks, originally religious holiday, is absolutely nothing at all justified. There's no evidence that this is excessive, there's no evidence that the principle of secularism is being violated, and there's no evidence that it violates the principle of religious equality, absolutely none. This is about Serbian history, a history where a famous uprising took place and the first constitution was adopted. Your history, since you're asking me a question from the bench, Mr. Huric, is probably identical with the history of the entire Serbian people. What is the history of Serbian Muslims is also the history of the entire Serbian people. Simply, historical facts need to be looked into the eyes. In history, everything that's happened, it's made sense, some of the causes and some of the consequences. I can tell you, since you asked me directly why the highest percentage of Muslims live in Bosnia. There are two reasons. Bosnia, as traditional writers write, fell with whispers. When Stevan Nemanja expelled the bohemians from Serbia, they went to Bosnia. Bosnia has repeatedly recorded attempts by their violent cataclysm. Especially at the time of the Bosnian king, Stjepan Tomašević. At that time, many were worshiped, were cataclysed, and they merely pretended to have moved on to Catholicism, and they did not suffer this imposed religion, and many of them went from spite to Islam. Sometimes illegal, and sometimes open, etc. And so Bosnia is the easiest of all medieval Serb countries to fall under the Turks. It's a historical fact. Another reason is that Bosnia was the latest freed from the Turks, so as other Serbian countries were freed, a large percentage of Muslims moved to Bosnia and there concentrated. The ancestors of Izetbegovic are from Belgrade, i.e. from Sapac, and have moved from there to Bosnia. Historical facts exist, they are irrefutable, there are so many historical documents that the debate of this species is almost immaterial. She's very instructive. The existence of three creeds, even the fourth, because there are Serb Protestants, there are in Pomoravlja, I know, I've met with some of them, there are also in Vojvodina in some places. The existence of four religions within the Serbian people is a matter of our history, a matter of our tradition. This must be respected, especially as we advocate the principle of religious tolerance and religious equality, which must be expressed in all segments. But we must also remember that the Serbian people preserved their national consciousness primarily thanks to the Serbian Orthodox Church. Those who passed on to other creeds, they eventually lost their national consciousness. By World War I, more than a million Serb Catholics lived. Unfortunately, Serbs entered Yugoslavia and facilitated the Vatican's policy of turning Serbs Catholics into Croats. All prominent Muslim intellectuals, all the greatest intellectuals, were proud of their Serbian nationality. First of all, Mesa Selimovic, one of the largest Serbian writers in general, are facts. Of course, I have no intention of anyone who doesn't want to be a Serb, but historical facts need to remind people from time to time, especially DOS, who generally don't like to read anything, to learn some lessons from history about the future and not to repeat tragic mistakes first of all. Unfortunately, we Serbs seem to be doomed to repeat the most tragic mistakes of the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10875	Do any of the other participants want a word? The word has a folk MP, Zeljo Huric, a replica, a misreading.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10876	Yesterday I said, I'm not going to give myself that role to get into some topics that aren't on the agenda. What the historical facts are, that should be discussed. Based on this last period that I've survived, I'm saying that what we call history doesn't quite fit the truth. It can be what's called "a history" in Croatia, something someone wrote, as it suits him to the greatest extent, but not to talk about it now. I just want to say about this law next, I'm using the minister's presence, actually to accentuate Professor Simonovic's words -- this law paves the way for Serbia's future. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10877	Do any of the other authorities want a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 11, against 141, five abstentions, 25 did not vote, out of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10878	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say anything about the amendment, I have prayed from this pay phone at least 20 times to respect the assembly procedure, that what remains in the stenographic notes can one day be read without shame. The reasons for the rejection of the amendments are always said that the committees responsible, and between them and the Legislative Committee, did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee, to remind you, does not accept or reject amendments. The Legislative Committee only indicates whether the amendment is legally possible or not. I ask you to either change the president of the Legislative Committee in the future or to conduct a text editorial before you start reading the People's Legislators. So, the Legislative Committee can only determine whether the amendment is legally possible or not legally possible, not whether or not to accept it because it is not the parent board. The Government has not accepted my amendment to Article 1, with a reason that the proposed solution is not fundamentally different from the solution set out in Article 1. The bill, and this solution is very fundamentally different for two reasons. Meeting means nothing, meeting the Lord means something. Even in the adopted amendment to Pal Shandor, the rest is the Meeting. And the second is February 15th, February 15th as the day of the celebration of the day of Serbia's statehood or the day of constitutionality, however you will, February 15th is the day of the Lord's Meeting. We cannot celebrate the meeting of the Lord on February 16th, as you foresaw some other members of the law. It is necessary, if we have already introduced the form of a church holiday in Article 1 of this Law, you do not call that church holiday a real name. This holiday is called the Meeting of the Lord, and it is celebrated on February 15th. According to the solutions from other members, it turns out that the DOS government can also move church holidays, just as it comes to mind. So, we can celebrate the meeting at 16 if it falls on Sunday, for example. That's why I submitted this amendment. I think Mr. Pal Shandor's adopted amendment is partially resolved by Article 1. A bill of this law, but not entirely.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10879	Anyone else want a word? MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10880	The amendment by MP Bozidar Vucurovic once again stresses the importance of making the first law on the holidays of the Republic of Serbia more precise. I purposely state the law on the holidays of the Republic of Serbia, because it would be the ideal name of this law. Not to be called rogobatan - about national and other holidays, about state and religious, etc. It is about the holidays of the Republic of Serbia and the additional attributes are not necessary. It's very important here to celebrate that very day that it's about to be celebrated, not any other day. Sunday can't move the holiday. Sunday can't move anyway. No one can say when Sunday falls on the day of the holiday, Sundays move Monday, and Monday changes schedules at the week and returns to the place of the week. Of course, that's absolutely impossible. If that's impossible, then it should be impossible by the same logic to move the day of the holiday. If the meeting is a day of national holiday, a day of constitutionality, which would be the best provision, then that day must be exclusively 15 February and no other date. No history can be falsified because it happened in one year that she fell on holiday day. It's already a fake of history. Or making fun of the holidays. There's another moment here that needs to be considered. Of course, all employees want as many holidays as possible. But our country is in such an economic crisis that we need a principle -- as few holidays as possible, less unworkable days, especially since Saturday was set for a day off. There's nothing left to cut. There's no room left to count on. If you need as many working days as you can, then you need to be as thrifty as possible in determining your days as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10881	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 46, against 101, a abstentioned one, did not vote 33, out of a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and Stevan Kesejic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10882	The point of amendment by MP Stevan Kesjejic is that this law on the holidays of the Republic of Serbia is complete. In my first presentation, in principle debate, I was talking about constitutional issues of passing such a law. Because the Serbian Constitution does not mention in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of Serbia the possibility of passing holiday laws, but does not prohibit it. To some extent, it may be considered possible to pass this law, but since the Federal Constitution is explicit that it is the jurisdiction of the Federal Assembly to pass holiday laws, then it was necessary to wait for this federal holiday law, as a basic, and then pass the republican law. It is possible that no parliamentary majority can be reached to pass a new federal holiday law, but in our case it is important, and that is most important, that the republican law of Serbia does not conflict with the provisions of federal law. If the Republic law of Serbia sets New Year's Eve as a holiday, and I think we are absolutely agreed that New Year's Eve should be a holiday, at least one day, then accepting this amendment after the Republic of Serbia would be complete. Then there's no more federal holiday to be prescribed, except possibly SRJ Day. It could be the day of the Grand Podgorica National Assembly, when it was decided to join Serbia. That would make sense. The Serbian Radical Party is against 1 May. It's a communist holiday and we couldn't possibly vote for it. It's a purely communist holiday, and don't let anyone fool you. The holiday was also accepted by social Democrats socialists, Europeans, but it remained from communist times, by the Second International. It is the only backdrop of communism that has remained a modern European social democracy, but it is the original communist holiday and should not be put on the agenda at all. I don't think anyone in Serbia would be serious about such a holiday. In an amendment to MP Stevan Kesjejic, a New Year's Eve is required and the law on the holidays of the Republic of Serbia is complete.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10883	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 43, against 105, the two abstentions, were not voted 30, out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Miroslav Christodulo and Mujo Mukovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Miroslav Christodulo.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10884	The essence of this amendment is to delete Article 2. Since article 1 defines the statehood day of the Republic of Serbia, which is 15.02 and which is okay, Article 2 defines religious holidays, which is the same. My proposal is for Article 2 to actually be transferred to Article 4, so that religious holidays are not necessarily unworkable for all citizens of Serbia, but to be selectively unworked for those who celebrate them. So, Article 2. The bill is essentially against the constitution. Namely, Articles 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees the equality of citizens in rights and responsibilities, regardless of the other, and of religion, as referred to in Article 2. The bill violates only by imposing a holiday of one religion on believers of other religions, atheists and agnostics. On the other hand, Orthodox Christianity is not the state religion of the Republic of Serbia. This is pursuant to Article 41(2). The Constitution, where religious communities are separated from the state. In the Republic of Serbia, according to research, very few citizens are actually religious, in terms of canonical religion. So many are traditionally regulatory. This is where the Ministry of Faith offered the wrong statistics, and from this point of view, Article 2. The bill is unacceptable. So it's not a problem in religious holidays as such, because citizens have the right under Article 41. The constitution to celebrate them. The problem isn't even about unworkable markings. And believers have the right to do so under Article 41. The Constitution, under the Labour Relations Act, which so far applies to Article 4. A bill of this law. The problem is the obligation of unworkable marking, by members: 1, 13, 35 and 41. The Constitution. Thus, in Article 1 - citizen state, in Article 13 - equality in rights and duties, regardless of religion, in Article 35 - right to work (that is one of the rights that has been violated here), in Article 41 - the right to express religious feelings. It's like when you imagine now that there's some religious holiday that prescribes work. Now in a few weeks, we decide that this religious holiday will be a state holiday and everyone has to work, even those members of other religions that don't work on Sundays or atheists. So you say -- you have to work on Sundays now, because some religious holiday means it. Well, this is a state holiday and the law says you have to. And then you would jump, of course, everyone would say-- well, it can't, you're violating our rights. The problem is that now there's something unworkable here, so since, perhaps, the mentality of our citizens is that the more they don't work, then, instead of a cult of St. Sava here, we're actually introducing a cult of nerado. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10885	People's MP Dejan Mihajlov, as president of the parliamentary group, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10886	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the DSS will not, of course, accept this amendment for a number of reasons. The first reason is that we strive to go to Europe, to be a modern European state, and we know that all European countries as unworkable days of glory and this holiday, so I don't think that's a valid argument. In these countries, there are also citizens of other faiths, and they also do not work on those holidays. I don't think that's a valid argument that needs to be withdrawn from this pay phone. I think that this is the way to celebrate these holidays, the majority of Orthodox religious citizens live in Serbia. In this way we are just showing that culture and religion are very intertwined, that religion has become an integral part of the beings of citizens living in this territory. I think this has to stay in this law. The other thing, religious communities, not Orthodox communities, but other religious communities, had nothing to do with this celebration and this holiday. We think that if they don't mind, even in this assembly they shouldn't have anything against it, and I don't think someone's entitled to work or any other rights guaranteed by the Constitution, by celebrating this holiday, but rather, they live in a country where the majority of the animal is Orthodox. I think a relationship of tolerance that we have towards them and they have towards us should not be violated by some violent introduction of some new rules, by abolishing some holidays. I think that would be very bad. The third reason is because I mentioned that these holidays, religious holidays, are an integral part of the beings of our people, the beings of our citizens. I don't want us to treat them this way, talk about them like someone's being denied something here. I think that these holidays are all getting, that it is very difficult to organise the process of work, if 70 or more percent of citizens in some environments celebrate these holidays; for 5% of the employees or 5% of the citizens to organise the process of work is impossible. This is a solution that is also known in all the laws of modern states, where certain holidays are not working days. I do not think that this amendment should be supported, but that it should absolutely remain with the member as provided for in the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10887	Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10888	I am surprised that Miroslav Christodulo, as a member of the Social Democratic Union, did not submit to the amendment that the "day of pride" of homosexuals and lesbians is set as a state holiday for Serbia. This would be more appropriate for the ideology of his party, their commitment to the introduction of marriages between two men or between two women, etc. What's decadent finds a standoff in their party, and their ideology breaks out through this amendment as well. Why? They don't have much knowledge, but they have excessive desires and their desires are primarily anti-natural fornication. As far as state religion is concerned, there is no state religion in our country. State religion does not exist in a single European country except Greece. Only Greece has state religion by its constitution. Modern countries, no matter what they are secular, and they have neither the state religion nor the state church, do not even consider giving up celebrating traditional religious holidays. European civilization is, above all, a Christian civilization. It has its two phenomenal forms, east and western Christianity, but in general, it has much more touching points than essential differences in basic issues. Civilian issues. This civilization gave birth to democracy, and that civilization of ancient Greeks inherited the concept of freedom. There was no such thing in other civilizations. They took it from European civilization, both democracy and freedom. These are the facts to be counted on. Here would be more meaningful some other objections to Article 2. First of all, what does that mean, first day of Christmas? There is no second day of Christmas and there is no third day of Christmas, and so should the Democratic Party of Serbia know. If he doesn't know, have him hire an SRS expert to help. There's only one day of Christmas. What you consider the second day of Christmas is the holiday of the Holy Virgin Assembly. What you call on the third day of Christmas is St. Stefan's holiday, it's a state holiday of Republika Srpska, for those who don't know or for those who don't care. So, Christmas is being celebrated on January 7th, and that's enough. It's not supposed to be the first day of Christmas. Second, point 2 should not stand - Easter holidays, starting on the Big Friday, ending with the second day of Easter, but simply standing - Orthodox Easter. Not only because of religious meaning, because when it comes to religious meaning, then we have both Catholic and Protestant Easter that sometimes falls on the same date, and sometimes on another date, depending on the way the church calculates those holidays, which I wouldn't be going into right now. Why is the Easter for a Serbian national being still significant, not just as a religious holiday? Two major criminal forces at Easter bombed Belgrade three times: Germany once at Easter 1941 and America twice - at Easter 1944 and 1999. That is one very strong reason for Serbia's national consciousness, pride, dignity. On a great Christian holiday, Easter, traditional Serbian enemies bombed our people and killed civilians, women and children, above all. They destroyed the greatest Serb sanctity. It is no accident that they destroyed the National Library of Serbia to the ground, which is one more reason for Easter to be the state holiday of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10889	National MP Borislav Pelevic, as president of the parliamentary group and MP Miroslav Christodulo, a replica of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10890	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, Miroslav Christodulo of the SDU and Mr. Mujo Mukovic have submitted an amendment to Article 2, and since the Serbian public does not have this document in their hands, allow me to read Article 2: "In the Republic of Serbia, religious holidays are celebrated: 1) first day of Christmas - January 7th; 2) Easter holidays start with the Second Day of Easter." The question arises, which is why Mr. Christodulo of the SDU and Mr. Muja Mukovic are disturbed by this Article 2. At the same time, they submitted the same amendment. But it's so identical that both the marks and the dots are exactly the same in the amendment's proposal and in its explanation. It's just a different signature. I assume they had either the same counselor, or they sat together all day and submitted this amendment. What is not good in this amendment is what is meant to say that Serbian Orthodox people are privileged by this bill. But that's absolutely not true. It's exactly the opposite. Serbian Orthodox people have been discriminated against by this bill. It was yesterday by an honourable MP who called it a positive discrimination against Orthodox people. I think that discrimination against Orthodox people in this country was enough and that it should no longer be treated as positive discrimination. I'll tell you how. Article 4 clearly states that Serbian Orthodox people have as many as four days of unemployment as Catholics or Protestants. Also, Serbian Orthodox people have one day of celebration less than Muslims. Therefore, I believe that this amendment should, in any case, be rejected. Because it's written, I think, under very suspicious circumstances and unwittingly. Secondly, where did this research data come from? According to this data, if Serbia has about 9 million inhabitants and if Mr Mujo Mukovic and Miroslav Christodulo of the Social Democratic Union say that only 36% of citizens according to their research are religious, that means that around 3.5 million Serbian citizens are religious. Well, they say, at least 35% of them are not Orthodox religions. This means that there are about a million Orthodox people in Serbia. There won't be, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. It seems to me that there are many more Orthodox people in this country and should not go public with such totally unargued and completely incorrect research. The Serbian Unity Party not only will not support this amendment, but will repel it with disgust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10891	The People's Messenger Miroslav Christodulo - right on the line. People's MP Zoran Cirkovic also answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10892	I'm mentioned, even offended, so I have to react. But before we know anything. The argument is that it is difficult to organise the process of work for 30% of citizens, according to the statistics offered by the government, that 70% of citizens (pay attention: citizens) of the Republic of Serbia are Orthodox believers. It's not. Because 70% of all believers are Orthodox believers. But not all citizens are believers. There's a lot of research. Media has been doing research, another agency in co-operation with Politics, and also, the Institute of Social Sciences and many others have research that makes most of them, of course, traditional believers who go to church and celebrate religious holidays once a year or less. A, for example. It can be funerals or celebrations. I was talking about it yesterday. Canonese believers are very few, under 10%. The argument that you cannot organise the process of work is as an argument that you cannot respect the Constitution because it is difficult, almost impossible to respect the Constitution. So that's not an argument. The legislator must follow the logic of the Constitution, write a law that is in the spirit of the Constitution, so that some constitutional court will one day not challenge it (if we ever have a majority of constitutional judges again). We now have to make an effort to say that we will comply with, say, Article 1 or Article 13, or Article 35, and Article 41. The constitution to make a law, well, if in practice it turns out that 70 or 40% of people don't work, that's another thing. It's just in practice. But we must not present this practice that is incompatible with the Constitution here with the law. And around these homosexuals and those parades... Three facts are about that. The first fact is that this is not the Social Democratic Union's initiative at all. Another fact is that our party, the Social Democratic Union, advocates a consistent respect for the rights of all people, therefore not only of the majority in society but also of various minorities: ethnic, religious, economic, well, and sexual minorities, of course. And also, the presentation of this gentleman who challenged me to this replica, Mr. Seselj, just talks about him. So, since he supports those religious fanatics, sectarians, neo-Nazis who beat unprotected people in the Republic Square and even, even women, his own relationship with homosexuals actually proves his latent homosexualism.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10893	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? There is a word from MP Zoran Cirkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10894	You haven't given me a word and a right to a replica, even though I have the right to do so. Member of the 96th says that if the MP is misread at the National Assembly session, the MP to whom the presentation is addressed has the right to replication. I was interpreted wrongly in the presentation of Mr. Pelevic. Of course, I'm not accusing him of sin, but he just misunderstood it. When I talk about positive discrimination, I am talking about the Serb volunteering to act of goodwill and to make certain national minorities and special awards, that simply in the state of Serbia feel comfortable as people, to feel free as citizens of Serbia. On the other hand, positive discrimination does not mean discrimination, it is an act of goodwill that Serbs as a benevolent people are making in order to please all citizens of Serbia. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10895	Advertised breach of the Rules of Procedure, I, for every presentation of the People's MP, record and turn off the subject, with signs and mention of names and contexts. National MP Zoran Cirkovic is not mentioned in the presentation of MP Borislav Pelevic. The names of the People's Messengers are mentioned: Miroslav Christodulo and Mujo Mukovic. They are mentioned in a context that can be the basis for replication. It was in the presentation of MP Borislav Pelevic. He didn't mention you. Do you want me to put a vote in violation of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Borislav Pelevic, a replica, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10896	The respected predecessor said again today, that he mentioned yesterday a positive discrimination against the Serb people. He explained that he did not mean it in a discriminatory sense, but that he meant it for the best, as an act of goodwill for us, Serbs of Orthodoxs towards other religious communities in Serbia. I can accept that. But I'm staying on that the name itself is pretty ghouly and pretty inadequate. Because the words - the positive discrimination of the Orthodox Serbian people - do not seem to be the most adequate term, if the esteemed colleague agrees. I think there has been a lot of discrimination between the Serb people, especially in religious matters, over the past 60 years. I don't think any discrimination is allowed anymore. Again, I say and argue that this bill is only discriminatory towards the Serb people, and that it is precisely work to give greater freedom and greater rights to the Serbian Orthodox. I have already explained this and there is no need to repeat it, because according to this bill, Serbs really have fewer holidays than Roman Catholics and Muslims. The law is not good, so the SS will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10897	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? He doesn't want to. ) If not, I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 11, v152 abstention, one did not vote 24, out of a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the proposal for a law on national holidays is abundant with numerous shortcomings and indeterminates, and the Commission, allegedly expert, which is drawn up by the promoter, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this has been seen especially from the discussion of the head of the SRS parliamentary group, Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj, therefore, the commission has shown an elementary ignorance of the history of the Serbian people, our religion in general. In many of its segments, the law is imprecise because some of the terms are confused, so to speak, we, the MPs of the SRS, the amendments that we have submitted to the members of this law, want to improve the legislative proposal, in order to be decent, put in order and make it an acceptable legal solution. By amendment to Article 2, I have proposed what I think has the utmost importance for all citizens of Serbia, but above all for the Serbian people, which is that the days of the unworkable are Saints Sava and Vidovdan. Prof. Dreselj explained yesterday the importance of Vidovdan and that it is above all a holiday that binds itself to the faith of the Serbs of the times and unites our national tradition, the tradition of the Serbian people, and above all because it is a proud day, and also a day sad at the same time, which reminds us of our vow, which is that we must preserve our homeland and that we must fight continuously for the freedom of the Serbian people. What a relationship to such a large and most significant holiday for us Serbs have, primarily representatives of power today in Serbia and the SRJ, we had the opportunity to see the 2001s, but it is really necessary for us today to declare that Vidovdan and Saint Sava are unemployed days. First of all, because it is quite obvious, that not only we, the MPs of the SRS, but most of Serbia's citizens, that a very important year has been missed in solving the accumulated, above all national issues, that many wrong moves have been withdrawn, with far-reaching consequences for our country and our people, and the way of marking such a large and most famous holiday in us Serbs, must certainly be unworkable. About how important Savindan is for all the importance of the first Serbian archbishop of St. Sava has in our tradition, and that this should first be the day of the spirituality of our Serbs, we spoke yesterday. Therefore I call upon the messengers to accept this amendment, that, in addition to the greatest festivals, the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ and the Resurrection, and Vidov day and the Holy Sava, they may be unworkable days in the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10899	Anyone else want a word? He has the word MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10900	The amendment of MP Natasa Jovanovic to Article 2 is the most complete and its acceptance would solve a whole series of problems that we face in various members of the bill. First, an existing Article 2 would correct this error in the formulation - the first day of Christmas. No, so, first day of Christmas, it's Christmas. It's only Christmas one day. Then, it would be a mistake-- the second day of Easter. There's no second Easter Day, there's a Easter Monday. It's a religious set of dates, but there's no reason for the Easter Day to be a state holiday. It's Easter enough, Easter is Sunday, and Sundays don't work like that, but it's celebrated. It's usually not celebrated on Sundays, people are resting from work, and this week it would be celebrated, in all those ways that one state announces to the public that it celebrates that day, and flags, and military music, and formal academys, and broadcasts on radio and television, etc. It's important here to stress that Big Friday is not a holiday, it's a day of mourning. A day of mourning can't be a holiday. That day is done, but absolutely fast, the strictest post is on the Big Friday. It's his determination in the Christian faith, but it's about to be ready for the holiday. This is where the Holy Sava was appointed, January 27th, and Vidovdan, June 28th. Here, therefore, there is no explanation - why some day, because it is understood that everyone knows why one of these days is celebrated, and it is possible to add an explanation to one or two sentences for each of these dates. That's why I think the simplest thing for the DOS majority would be to accept this amendment, and if this amendment is accepted, the SRS MPs are ready to vote for the law in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10901	Do any of the other participants want a word? He doesn't want to. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 49, against 110, there were no abstentions, there was no 23 vote, out of 182 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, with the addition of the amendment, which refers to the addition of point 4 to the amendment, was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. The government didn't accept this amendment. The government has not declared itself supplementing the amendments, so I ask the Government's representative, if necessary, to declare the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment, with the addition of amendments. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10902	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would really like to ask your attention, especially the heads of Parliament. I think it would be good if they took the law in front of them and listened to me in a few sentences. First, I will try to prove that the law is unsustainable, as proposed. On the basis of Article 4. - Dear Mr. Minister, see Article 4, in which only employees have the rights listed under points 1, 2, 3, and 4. - only employees. For example, in schools, what about students, students, do they have the same rights listed under points 1, 2, 3, and 4? But, let me, we have schools that are mixed, you know that there are such environments, and there, say, where there are workers that belong to one and the other, they work, the other don't work. What about the students? On what basis, what law says that members of a religious community do not have to attend school at the time? Based on what? What will make a class elder simply make a child who is absent during Bajram, say, or during the baptism of glory, Orthodoxly, to justify his absence? What law do you call it? It's one anomaly we have to correct in this law. This anomaly can, in my view, be corrected in the way I suggested, and I have proposed a law that will respect all that is proposed by this law, but adding points 3 and 4 to Article 2 and extending the right of other religious communities, on the one hand and on the other hand, we avoid what is an anomaly in Article 4. Of course, that amendment of mine you have to look at as part of Amendment 3, because it's as unsustainable as it is, it's actually not clear enough. In Amendment 3, which I have proposed to add, it defines that these holidays are treated as national holidays, i.e. having the status of a national holiday only in those environments where the majority of the religious community celebrating the holiday is. Please, tell me, any of you here, what I've broken with my proposal from what is proposed in this law. There's one small thing, one small thing that's not exactly identical to this, and it's only in those mixed environments where those members of minority religious communities don't enjoy the very rights that are foreseen here. For example, in the Tutin municipality during Bajram will not work, according to my proposal, the state institutions and then only that part of the Serbs living there will be in this way in smaller rights than this law, but it is only three municipalities and nothing more. I think it's a far more correct proposal than this. So I ask you once again to take this proposal seriously, especially the Government's representative, and to plead. I insist once again that I have not taken anything with my proposal from the rights proposed by this legal project. The second thing I want to emphasize here is the number of days of certain religious festivals of certain religious communities. With us, Muslim religious communities, Ramadan Bayram lasts for three days, Kurban Bayram for four days. Gentlemen, if you don't believe me, look at the Montenegrin law and you will see that, under Montenegrin law, Muslims are entitled to three days of Ramadan Bayram and three days of Kurban Bayram. I think you can believe in the law if you don't believe my words. So that's one fact, and so I suggested two days, I didn't go that far, and I had some thought that the amendment was easier to pass. I suggested to the religious community that I belong to two days of Ramadan Bayram and two days of Kurban Bayram. I thank you and I really hope that you will take my words seriously and, of course, if this amendment doesn't pass, there's no need for me to report to the other amendments, because they are integral and if one doesn't pass, then there's no point in letting the others pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10903	The word is made by MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10904	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of amendment by MP Zelj Huric is to get another day's celebration for Ramadan Bayram and another day for Kurban Bayram. I have no objection to that in principle, but since, under the proposal of this law, Muslims have one day more celebrations than Serbs and Orthodox people. If we were to adopt this amendment, then Muslims would have three days more celebrations than Serbs and Orthodox people. No such example has been recorded in any democratic country of Europe and the world, that the minority religious community has more celebrations for their religious holidays than the majority religious community. I think it is really unacceptable and I am quite certain that MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will not adopt this. However, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not the Assembly of the Republic of Montenegro. Montenegro has its own law, and we need to pass our law and it is not good for Serbs and Orthodox people to have fewer days under this bill than Muslims and Catholics do. If this amendment is adopted, Muslims will have much more celebrations, holidays of the unemployed than Serbs have, three days more. I think it's unacceptable and I hope you share my opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10905	MP Zeljo Huric answered the line. The basis for the replica? He misread you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10906	Mr. Pelevic, let me get one thing straight. First of all, termologically, you're talking about a holiday here instead of talking about the number of days off. What you said was about the number of days off, and that's what I said in my presentation yesterday, if you remember. It is true that according to this proposal, Muslims, when it comes to it, have one day more when it comes to unworkable days than Orthodox people. Catholics, as I've heard, although I don't understand myself very well in the number of days of Easter, I don't know, and these other holidays, as I heard yesterday, have four days more. That's true, but it's not about holidays. You can't say now that Christmas and Easter are holidays for Muslims, Jews and others. So, to know that and to understand each other. I really had no intention of making a comparative analysis. I didn't mention any other laws, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, I really won't, because of you, respected colleagues here, because I think it's quite enough to point only to the anomalies of the existing law, not to refer to other laws. Just to prove from the scene that the truth is what I said, that Ramadan Bayram was celebrating with us for three days, and that Kurban was taking four days. Besides, the people who are from those environments, and they're here, they could confirm it themselves. Therefore, it does not stand for what you have said and I hold that you will understand me correctly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10907	MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10908	The point of amendments by MP Zelja Huric, as I understand it, is that he is against excess days for members of the Islamic and Catholic religions. He is actually rebelling that Orthodox Christmas and Easter holidays for all citizens, and then citizens of other religions still have their own. They are objectively, on the basis of the concrete interests they have, extended, because they have more paid working days than Orthodox people. That's a fact. But now I have a question as to what is it to you as a member of the Muslim religion that bothers you? You have more and in a certain way you are stretched out. There shouldn't be a reason. Now let's look at how it's in parallel legal denial. In all of Europe, these holidays, which are state-run, and their origin is religious, are celebrated on the basis of the majority religion. In Western Europe, since it is the same date for Catholics and Protestants, they have the holiday as a state, and in Eastern Europe, Russia, Ukraine and Belarus are celebrated on the Orthodox calendar as a state holiday. But this does not interfere with members of other religious communities especially celebrating all the holidays and the law gives them the privilege of getting paid leave on that day and celebrating their religious holidays. From excess, in principle, the head doesn't hurt, especially since, Mr. Huric, it would hurt you, because it's not a humiliation for you to celebrate Christmas and Easter by not working those days. No one's making you celebrate in the right sense of the word. No one's forcing you. You don't go to work that day, you have more days off. Your farthest ancestors, Vukasin, Peter, Lazarus, Marco, etc., will rejoice that day you do not. They won't mind your nearer ancestors, Mehmed, Ali, Seifudin, Salih, etc. So, as we Orthodox Serbs have no reason to forget the oldest Serbian religion, we are proud of what has been preserved in religion, although today we belong to Orthodoxism, I see no reason why it would bother members of Muslim or Catholic religion. You know, there's a lot of people who respect their old faith. What you're saying in addition to the amendment, it's also not right, it doesn't fit the facts, it doesn't respond to practice, it doesn't respond to social conditions. You say - the first day of your cross glory for Orthodox people. That's not true, because not only do Orthodox people cross the glory. They also have Catholics, and they have Muslims. And especially with Roma Muslims, the glory of Gurjevdan is preserved. The Roma Muslims celebrate on the list of Gjurdjevdan. Other ancestors, who were not Islamic religions, respect and glory. There are quite a number of Muslims who also mark their old fame, family protectors, and especially Catholics have the most. And it's right there in the pure Serb Catholic environments, like the Konavlje. And a whole series of others. There's never been a Catholic living in Mare's parish. That's what you're supposed to do, Mr. Shandore, to do a little research, a little more detail. That is why this amendment is not appropriate. It leaves the possibility, since fame is not only a mark of Orthodox people, but remains of the old Serbian faith, with Serbs only changing the name of fame. Instead of celebrating the old Serbian gods or demigods, or the angels, as they are already called, Vesna, Velesa, Zivana, etc., they have now begun to celebrate Orthodox saints from the Orthodox calendar, but on the same day. I know of my glory, of St. Luke, that old Serbs once celebrated Veles. Saint Luke was once Welles and fell on the same day. It's something that's a national mark, not a Christian. No other Christian people have Christian glory. No Russians, no Bulgarians, no Greeks, and no Roman Catholics. That's the facts. This leaves the possibility, not just for every Orthodox, but for every Muslim, and for every Catholic, and for every Jew to declare that it is that day, he doesn't have to say the cross, but family glory and he has the same right as the Orthodox on that one day. It was even at the time of the communists, that every citizen, and they ran away from church orders, so in the Constitution they said that every citizen had the right one day a year to determine for some of their needs no matter what they were.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10909	National MP Zeljo Huric, replica, what's the basis? Wrong interpretation, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10910	I just thought, Mr. Seselj, that I brought you into one level of correctness, and yet you turn out to be incorrect to me. Irregular, here's the point. You said that I said here that it bothers me, that I'm offended, that I feel offended because I won't work at Christmas. I really didn't say that. Here's proof, I've accepted everything and I accept what's really been proposed by this law. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: It was in the form of a rhetorical question. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10911	I ask the MPs not to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10912	The difference between me and you is that I won't interfere in determining holidays for Orthodox people or Catholics or Jews. That's what I'm asking for us all to behave like that here. That we do not interfere in the holidays of other religious communities, but that they themselves, in their own way and in their own sense, determine those holidays that they will. Once again, I really insist that you take a good look. I am not subtracting anything from the proposed, but only in Article 2. I am adding two more religious communities, the Islamic and Jewish religious communities, by amending Article 3, in my first position, to be in the context of Article 1, only in those areas where the majority of the religious community has this holiday. That's my attitude, and I'm asking you to understand me that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10913	Do any of the other participants in the debate want a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For four, against 145, 10 abstentions, 22 of the 181 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10914	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the legislator wanted to read more seriously the proposal for this amendment, he might also remove these disagreements that arise over several members mentioning different types of holidays. In fact, the legislator also regulated holidays by Articles 1, 2 and 5 and even Article 4 relating to employee rights, which in certain days may not work. I tried the amendment to Article 2. A bill to systematise holidays to be celebrated in the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, there is nothing to add to this list, nor is there anything that a man should take off this list. I think New Year's is a universal date. The fact that it exists in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, it doesn't matter at all, and it can be included in a republican holiday, a team before the Serbian Prime Minister threatens us to have a federal state by New Year's Eve, because he says we'll either make a deal or we'll split up, as if it's up to him and his agreements. Christmas, the first day of Christmas, St. Sava on January 27th, why St. Sava, a day we might be able to adopt, even as a day of statehood. The cult of St. Sava belongs to the most widespread in our country and the involvement of the Holy Sava, the Serbian Orthodox Church has gained self-cerfality. Based on this autokefality, the divided Serb countries have been united until then. Is there anything more beautiful, is there one day in which, with the exception of Christmas, we feel more peace in the house, the days we even dedicate to our children, and we are also the school's fame, or the school's glory, as the glory of St. Sava. Easter, but Easter Day, not the Big Thursday, Friday, Saturday, not the Easter Monday, Easter Tuesday, but Easter, Easter Day, even though it was really badly marked by the Germans in 1941, and the Americans in 1944 and 1999, but we rose again and rose again as if not a single world power could do anything to us, and we won't be able to agree on at least basic state principles. Of course, and Vidovdan. The fifth commandment of God says, "Honor your father and your mother, that you may live longer, that it may be good for you in the earth." That could be said and respect your ancestors. What would we Serbs respect than Vidovdan, a day that binds us to Serbs thousands of years ago, a day that binds us to the nation, when Serbs already had God, and temples, and statues, and their faith, so strong, so powerful. So much is she in our genes, that we identified the Serbian Orthodox Church with our previous faith and she accepted it. Only we on the globe of the earth in Christianity, and only we in Orthodoxism mark our festivals as our ancestors have marked for hundreds or thousands of years. Unspeakable only as a memorial to the Kosovo battle, but also to the Kosovo battle. But you can tell why that day. Not Vidovdan as a marking of some other days and not at all Vidovdan as a day - the Day of 2001, which was disgraced and defiled, but we will get out of all troubles. We can't even get a bad government to back us up. We've had much worse governments, much worse rulers. There were many occupiers on our land, so we have past and remained proud, at least that there are proud of us for being Serbs. The bill promoter could have systematized state holidays, not to split us into screams, to unworked, to work holidays. What does it mean to celebrate a work holiday? Or, what does it mean to move a holiday, which falls on a certain date, if it falls on Sunday, and the holiday is called, according to the amendment you accepted, Meeting? Then I think we'd be right about those who say we can't put that name in the name of the holiday, if we're already moving. It's a kind of hypocrisy. Either we celebrate the Lord's Meeting or we celebrate 15 or maybe 16 February. (President: 5, 30 minutes). So I suggest you accept this amendment. The amendment binds Serbs through centuries, binds our spiritual, world history. I think that, with the adoption of that amendment, the law would be acceptable to all MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10915	Do any of the other participants want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10916	The amendment of MP Tomislav Nikolic is more complete than Natasa Jovanovic's amendment. This is where he introduces it to point one. New year - January 1st. If this amendment were accepted, then the Republic holiday law would be truly complete, by making a correction at point 2 - instead of the first day of Christmas, only Christmas (January 7th), Saint Sava, Vascris and Vidovdan. It would be all official state holidays, plus the glory of every citizen, whether it's Orthodox, Catholic, Muslim, Protestant, and what other creeds would have, according to their beliefs, certain dates when they could not work and celebrate. What does it matter in this case, what should everyone know? The Serbs are from the Vikings, from the primordials, always the monotheistic people. Serbs have always believed in one god, by calling this god the Holy See, in four characters: the Holy See - when it marks light, good, goodness; Perun - when it marks violence, strength, thunder, even anger; Jacob, as the protector of the domestic hearth, family, family values and war - when it comes as the god of war, when it defends the homeland, when it defends the Serbian hearth. This is what the Serbs kept in Christianity, with my opinion that the members of the Muslim religion should know, that by moving from Christianity to Islam, they did not stop believing in the same god. God remained the same, only the verocacons changed. So the Koran, like the holy book of Islam, also respects the prophet Moses, or Moses, and the prophet Jesus, or Jesus Christ. The Koran respects the old faiths. Only some who apply the Koran in their once fundamentalistic blindness ignore it, forget it. One thing we all need to know - Turks, as occupiers in the Balkans, over the Serbian country, were in a religious sense incomparably more than the Vatican icatholic. Because if we had been ruled by Rome, the Vatican, the Hungarians or the Austrians, the question is, would anything have survived our Orthodox faith? It's a historical fact, which must also be known and respected. Turks never forced Orthodox Serbs to change their religion, and Catholics fought religious wars against the Serb people, killed, tortured. The proselytic action was particularly expressed in the coast, where the Milky Ways ruled in Bosnia before the Turks arrived. Those are facts you need to know. Only when we know all these facts, then in the right sense of words can we be religiously tolerated. You need to know all the religions, all the religions, so that man truly feels in his soul religious tolerance. Faith and religious tolerance should be seen separately from national awareness from nationality. That's two separate things. Serbs were fortunate to have had their dominant religion as a Serbian Orthodox, so it helped them preserve their Serbian national consciousness. Other nations who did not have it often lost their national consciousness and disappeared from the historical stage. I think this amendment of MP Tomislav Nikolic should be accepted, along with this correction, because he makes everything simple in this law until the end. Then it's clear in the law what you DOS people would say is "transparent."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10917	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 50, against 104, two abstentions, were not voted 24 out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zeljo Huric, did you say in this communication that you were giving up the amendments submitted? Is that how I can inform the National Assembly? I don't want it to be later that communication in the O.R. missed some information exchange. The word has a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10918	Madam Chairman, again, I ask that the Legislative Committee on My Amendments be made known, whether they are legally possible or not legally possible, not accepted or not. I asked you to do it last time, and you're doing it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10919	The way the Legislative Committee works, under the chairmanship of the President or of the Vice-Presidents, is a matter of the Legislative Committee. Whether this is in line with previous practice or in line with your view on how the Legislative Committee should be declared, that is, unfortunately, not something we can resolve, neither you as a MP nor I as chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10920	You haven't explained anything to me, you haven't convinced me, because it has nothing to do with practice, style and manners. It has to do with the law. I have submitted an amendment that is, in principle, almost the same as the amendment of MP Tomislav Nikolic, which says New Year, Christmas, Saint Sava, Easter and Vidovdan are celebrated in Serbia. About the need to celebrate these holidays, it's already been said. The importance of these holidays for Serbia and the Serbian people has also been discussed. We celebrate the new year, so we celebrate; they put it in the Republic law or it was in federal law, we don't do it on January 1st anyway. As promised by the representatives of the Republic Government, headed by the Prime Minister, we will not have a federal state, and we will meet in wonder whether we will work or not on 1 January 2002, because it will not be in the law. Christmas as Christmas, not as the first day of Christmas, and we've already told it, because the second day of Christmas doesn't exist, it's the Hall of the Holy Mothers. Easter as Easter, Easter is one day, Big Friday is a day of mourning, Easter Monday and Easter Tuesday are the second holidays. And, Vidovdan, as a tradition of the Serbian people, as part of the faith left over from that time before we came to these places. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10921	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10922	The amendment of the People's MP Bozidar Vukurovic is very precise. It's perfectly suitable for accepting, if some luck here would be a good will, with the congregation majority, to seriously get into the essence of the problem, that there's a desire to really pass a good law. We in the SRS are trying, writing a huge mass of amendments, to improve every legal project, to improve, to make it better. However, it seems that this job is quite in vain, since it does not overcome the good will to really pass a good law, but to bring any. It's someone sitting out there, writing, submitting to the Assembly, voting machines, it's accepted. And even the Legislative Committee is not doing its job properly. The legislative committee must, by any amendment, declare itself in a regulated manner, notify the National Assembly of its opinion - not whether or not it accepts the amendment, but whether the amendment is legally possible or not. What does that mean legally possible? Is the amendment, if accepted, in accordance with existing laws, with the principles of legal order and whether it is in conformity with the Constitution. That the adoption of this amendment does not disturb the legal order, that it does not question the consistency and consistency of the legal system. Unfortunately, it seems that for quite some time we will not have as good a will as prevailing in this House. It seems that we are doomed that as the government comes, it must literally change all the laws, because in the previous period there was no desire to pass laws of lasting value, laws whose basic logical principle can be used as a rule that will apply to all people. Here is a purely ideological one-sided approach, and this foreigning of Serbia has never led in the right direction, it has always sharpened social contradictions, rather than easing them and resolving them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10923	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment to the vote. For 43, against 103 abstentions, there were no, no 30 votes, a total of 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Pelevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10924	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment that reads: Article 2 is changed and reads "The religious holidays are celebrated in the Republic of Serbia: 1) Christmas Day and the first and second day of Christmas; 2) Easter holidays, starting on the Big Friday, and ending on the second day of Easter." The explanation seems pretty clear to me, and I think I have two good reasons to propose the adoption of this amendment. The first is that in the Serbian people Christmas Day is also a great holiday and a day of preparation for Christmas. On the first day, all Orthodox believers, the real ones, go to church and spend all day, after that, with their family. The second day of Christmas has been appointed for visits to the closest friends and relatives. So, I think it's necessary for those reasons, that Christmas Day and the second day of Christmas will also be unworkable days, in order to make a single continent that would be called Christmas holidays. I think it is necessary for another reason, which is to correct the injustice that this bill is making for the citizens of the Orthodox people, which is that the citizens of Serbian Orthodox faith have fewer days than Muslims and Roman Catholics. I'm quite certain that most of you here, in this assembly, in this room, agree with me, at least secretly, but I'm also sure you won't vote this amendment. Anyway, I'm not giving up on this amendment. However, I recommend that you listen to your conscience and vote for the adoption of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10925	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10926	The MPs of the SRS will not accept this amendment for several reasons. First, because Christmas Day was never a holiday. In the church calendar, it's not marked as a holiday. It is usually in church calendar in black letters, but in bold black letters, i.e. darkened, which means that it is the day of fasting. It's about the last day of Christmas fasting. On Christmas Day, it's always been done, it's never been celebrated. The etymological word "beast" means the day it doesn't work, which is empty from work, so it should also be in mind. Second, there's no first and second day of Christmas, I've already said that. What's called the second day of Christmas, it's the Holy Mother's Council, and the third day is actually St. Stefan's. This is similar when it comes to the Easter holidays, the Big Friday is not a holiday but a day of mourning, and the second day of Easter is not the second day of Easter, but it's Easter Monday. The basic reason why we will not vote for this amendment is that we must also take care of the principle of economics of state holidays, official holidays, public holidays. Because if we follow the logic of this amendment, then every church, red letter would have to be a state holiday. Of course, no country in the world could stand it. Well, neither can ours. You don't have to exaggerate on these things. It is much better to limit yourself to a small number of dates, but to keep them indisputable in every respect, as a general national holiday.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10927	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 25, against 114, a abstentioned one, was not voted 38, out of a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Branislav Blazic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Dragan Colic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do any of the applicants want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the assembly majority had accepted amendments from MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Tomislav Nikolic and Bozidar Vukurovic, we would have given up this amendment that we have submitted, and many other amendments, because their amendments were more complex. But knowing that the assembly majority does not want to adopt amendments to opposition parliamentary clubs and opposition MPs, we have made further efforts to force you to correct these holidays that you have decided to leave as in the proposed text. I have an amendment to Article 2: Article 2 paragraph 1 point 2 is amended and reads "The First Day of Easter". I confess that I wrote it that way for the reason that in our people the opinion that Easter is celebrated for three days is offensive. And it is celebrated three days above all for religious reasons, because both Easter Monday and Easter Tuesday are marked with a red letter. Of course, when we talk about national holidays and when we want to recognize certain religious holidays as national holidays, then it is enough to stand there only "The Easter", that is, on the church calendar Easter is marked with a red letter, celebrated as a state holiday, and Easter Monday and Tuesday is something that every house celebrates in its own way. The state doesn't have to celebrate either. However, I do not like the explanation the government gives when it does not accept this amendment and calls on the old law, so it says that the same number of unworkable days was foreseen by the old law. That's not true. But if it were, that old law if it was good, I believe you wouldn't be changing it. In principle and in principle, we have advocated a reduction in the number of national holidays, especially for the reduction of the number of working days fixed for the celebration of certain holidays, and in this sense this amendment has been submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10929	Anyone else want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10930	Ladies and gentlemen, it's about the amendment to celebrate Easter for five days. In principle, we go with the desire to have as few days as possible, and especially since Big Friday has never been celebrated, nor can it be a holiday. I suggest we celebrate Easter. I would like to say one more thing when it comes to the patience and tolerance that has been in the dilemma of amendments to certain MPs of other religions. You see, a principle that became dominant in Europe after a war that was waged between Catholics and Protestants, in the JVII century and lasted 30 years. They killed each other in the cities of Germany, after 30 years of unfeeling killings, they made peace in 1648, and the basic principle by which this peace was made was the principle: whose authority, that is, faith. So whose country it is, that's faith. It was this principle that provided salvation and in some ways tolerance between two different creeds. That tolerance shows we don't have to love each other. There's no love. But tolerance must exist. Therefore, it is clear that this is a Serbian state and that, above all, it is clear who owns this country and whose faith is to be respected and celebrated. When Serbs in Germany celebrate Catholic holidays and do not work during Catholic holidays, then the principle will be disturbed and can be applied in Serbia as well. Until then, this principle that has provided for the post-Westfall Peace of Tolerance must also be respected in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10931	There is a word from MP Dragan Cholic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10932	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted this amendment for two reasons. The first is that the number of working days should be reduced, and the second reason is that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government representative Vladan Batic show they do not know the essence and the spirit of Orthodoxy. The biggest mistake is making in the proposal that the Easter holidays last from the Big Friday, ending with the second day of Easter. All events before the day of the resurrection of the Lord are the introduction to one of the greatest festivals that bring us salvation. Without resurrection, our faith would be in vain. In Orthodox religion, the festival of Easter is also called pasture, from the Jewish - sand, meaning crossing. It is a new pasture, a new and greater covenant that the prophets of the ancients foretold. It's the eternal transition from death to life and from earth to heaven. This is the day of the Lord, which was revealed by God's holy prophets. The day which Yahweh created for his judgment over all creation, the day of his final and eternal victory. We are not Catholics to celebrate and celebrate the torture of the body, but the joy of winning death. For these reasons, I suggest that the Day of Resurrection be celebrated as it has been. He always falls on Sundays and does not fit into 12 large festivals of Orthodox Church, since he is considered a holiday over the holidays. I ask you to adopt the amendment and save the happiest day in the Serbian Orthodox faith from the desecration of those to whom all the faiths of the world are closer than the faith of their ancestors.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10933	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 38, v 107, abstention one, nor voted 31, of a total of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Vitomir Plužarevic, Bozidar Vujic, Goran Cvetanović and Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10934	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have already spoken about why it would be good to adopt this amendment, namely that Saint Sava - January 27th and Vidovdan - June 28th be our holidays. Now I'm going to make some other arguments briefly and concisely. The festivals of St. Sava and Vidovdan are fostering the Serbian national tradition and will allow the youth to be brought up in the Serbian Orthodox spirit. By marking these two days, we associate our spiritual and world history. St. Sava as a monk and writer, thinker and translator, founded with his father, Serbian ruler Stefan Nemania, the Hilandar monastery on the Holy Mountain. Thanks to St Savi, i.e. his engagement, the Serbian Orthodox Church has gained self-cerfality, to which all Serbian countries have united. St. Sava, as the builder and patron of art, marked the beginning of the great age of medieval art. The cult of St. Sava belongs to the most widespread in our midst, and that is why it should be the day of Serbia's spirituality. The festival of the Holy Sava, as a day of spirituality, should certainly be classified as a religious and national holiday, given the significant roles in waking, building and preserving Serbia's national consciousness throughout the centuries. As for Vidovdan, I've talked about it extensively before. Vidovdan was celebrated as a religious holiday by Serbs and before the Kosovo Battle, which was fought in Gazimestan, on June 28th 1389, or before the acceptance of Christianity, the Serbs chose this day to start the battle, believing it would be in God's mercy. The Kosovo myth in the Serbian people played a significant role in preserving Serbia's national consciousness and fighting for liberation, to this day, a team before today, as well as Kosovo and Metohija, are under occupation. The day of vision should be preserved as a symbol of freedom and faith in achieving Serbian national issues. The largest Serbian national holiday, meaning St. Vid's Day -- on the day of St. Vid, the Serbian people in the past made the greatest exploits, such as the Kosovo Battle, the Sarajevo Tent, the declaration of democratic constitutions, which is why Vidovdan is the day of Serbian glory and of Serbian evoking memories of fallen freedom fighters. Vidovdan, who has the mythical meaning of Serbian history, is the oath of every Serb, because the Holy Vision is the most sacred and most valuable of all Serbs, the DOS government has trampled all this. What they have said is that they cannot accept the amendment just because Saint Sava and Vidovdan are traditionally celebrated in the workplace, it really does not stand, because nothing can be celebrated at work. Either it's celebrated, or it's working on that day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10935	Anyone else want a word? There is a word from MP Vitomir Plužarevic, as the applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. In Article 2 paragraph 1 after point 2, point 3 is added to St. Sava - 27 January and point 4) Vidovdan - 28 June. The festival of St. Sava as a day of spirituality should be classified as a religious and national holiday, given the importance of his role in waking, building and preserving Serbian national consciousness through the centuries. I am surprised that the billmaker of the Holy Sava does not propose for unworkable glory, that is, a holiday at the Serbs. Why this surprise of mine came to light -- because during Broz we mostly celebrated it with a sneak, or it was just a church holiday, limited to our ruins of the Fuscogorian monasteries. I know well that in Europe, Serbs gathered on that day in Vienna, Budapest, Paris, London, even in New York, and that there they celebrated the Holy Sava called the "Svetosavski Ball". So then and then it could be celebrated, and today when "democracy" arrived, as you call it, it can't, or it can be a working holiday. This school glory of St. Sava preserved the memory of the Sanhedrin of Sava. Let the Serbs, us, be a holiday that will mean a holiday. May he enter the new history of Serbs as a holiday of spirituality. Our people will only be held if they stick to the sacred path. That day should be set for a special encounter with the personality of St. Sava. Our church and folk history knows him as a beacon, an enlightener, a teacher, a writer, a diplomat and a first-timer, the founder of an independent Serbian church. It appears at a time when our entire people's ship, headed by its hesitant rulers, swings between Greek Orthodox and Latin Catholicism, between the elinized East and the Romanised West. The first one was the Serbian Archbishop, the first one to open schools, expand education, gather Serbian children, teach them literacy, bring learned monks from the holy mountain. There's a lot to say, but I can't bring it up right now, because time is limited to that kind of thing. Vidovdan as a religious holiday was celebrated with Serbs and before the Kosovo Battle, which was led in Gazimestan on June 28th, 1389, or before the adoption of Christianity. The Serbs chose this day to start the battle, believing it would be in God's mercy. The Kosovo myth played a significant role in the preservation of Serbia's national consciousness and the fight for liberation, to this day, a team that today is both Gazimestan and all of Kosovo and Metohija under occupation. The day of vision should be preserved as a symbol of freedom and faith in achieving Serbian national issues. If this amendment is accepted, Article 5 should be deleted and a legal technical order should be executed
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10937	Anyone else want a word? He has the word MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10938	It would be very important for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to accept this amendment. I have repeatedly explained why Vidovdan is important to the Serbian people, to the whole Serbian people, to the Serbs of all religions, as the day of St. Vid. Now I would explain a little bit more - why St. Sava is important and why it would be important for the day of St. Sava to be one of the greatest national holidays. Saint Sava prevented the mass cataclysm of Serbs. His brother, Stevan the First Class, has already received the dispersion of the Catholic crown and the mass cataclysm of the Serbs has begun. One third of Serbia, according to some historical estimates, was cataclysmic at the time. With the arrival of St. Sava and the powers that he received from the imperial patriarch, he changed the walking course, there was a major fracture. Stevan Prvicani gets the Orthodox crown, crowns for the Orthodox ceremony, stops expansion of Serbians building non-deficient state-of-the-art traditions. It is not by any chance that the archbishop of bar-papas has won the title of the Serbian, in the papal desire to cataclysm to all Serbs and to lead under his own control, because the Vatican has made the whole history much more public, as a political factor, but as a religious factor. Even the Vatican in the Middle Ages waged wars with neighbouring countries, bloody wars. Which is why St. Sava -- as founder of Serbian state-owned traditions, achieved the autokefalence of the Serbian Orthodox Church, did personally in his political and diplomatic missions much to stabilise the Serbian state. In our people there remained a memory, and among the most indescribable of Serbs, how the saints of Savamirated brothers, Vulcans and Stefans, at a time when there was a danger that the first of Nemanja's heirs would slaughter each other, or investigate, or divide the country into two parts, bloodstained. St. Sava prevented it, and then many diplomatic missions, both in Byzantium and in Bulgaria, contribute to the stability of the Serbian state. St. Sava is a real progenitor of Serbian literature. Saint Sava is the founder of Serbian philosophy. St. Savaj, in the right sense of the word, is the image of the basic origins of Serbian spirituality, not only in religious but in scientific terms, in the sphere of state-efficient ideology, in the field of literature, in the field of art. It is no accident that the Turks burned the musts of the Holy Sava, the remains of the dead, the bones, in 1595, on Vracar. And it's not without the real symbolic significance that Sinan Pasha, who burned the musts of St. Sava, was a Shiptar, an Albanian. It speaks of the tragic fate of the Serbs and said it to a deep historical hostility. It is not what happens to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija the thing of this time, because communists have contributed most to it, but it is something that has been happening for centuries and whose goal is to separate the Serbian national consciousness. The Serbs loved, respected, and not only Serbs, but also surrounding Orthodox peoples for their lives. After his death, one of the greatest cults in Serbia was created, built on the memory of St. Sava and his contribution to the foundation of Serbia's national consciousness. The Serbs celebrated St. Sava in all Serbian countries, regardless of where they were in the occupation, whether they were Turks, Hungarians, Austrians, Mlets, or anyone else. This is indeed one of the greatest Serbian national sanctities, so in the holiday law, it should be the day of the Holy Save's special attention, therefore, to be equal with other national holidays, not to remain this formulation - to be celebrated at work, because it's really funny, tragic to celebrate something at work. What does it mean to celebrate work? What does it mean to celebrate work? It's something that may be left of old communist time, old communist consciousness, and should be thrown out immediately. If it won't be an official holiday for St. Sava and Vidovdan, then what other date deserves to be our national holiday or national holiday?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10939	Anyone else want a word from an authorized participant? The word is Božidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10940	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am proposing that the day of St. Sava and Vidovdan be official public holidays, not working holidays. I'd like to ask Mrs. Chairman that this time I'm going to use to quote what this law project says doesn't include the time I have the right to explain the amendments, and it's very much about this amendment. You'll see when I read it. In light of this legal project that the government has submitted regarding the state holidays law, it says nicely: "If something unites the generations of Serbs, then it is a figure of the Holy Sava. Holy Sava has earned enormous credit, first of all, in the field of spirituality. The monk and writer, translator and thinker, founded along with his father, Serbian ruler Stefan Nemanja, the Hilandar monastery in the Holy Mountain. His efforts created a Serbian autokefal church, which brought together a divided Serb country until then. The builder and art sponsor marked the beginning of a major era of Serbian medieval sacral art. His cult belongs to the most widespread in our midst. Vidovdan is one of the basic concepts of Serbian historical memory. It is celebrated as a memory of Kosovo's battle and the Serbian army's death in conflict with the Turks. The event is now exceeding the frameworks of one battle, one event and should be given the universal meaning of a holiday dedicated to all the fallen homeland through the long history of the Serbian people." I pray that this quote, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, does not count at the time necessary to explain the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10941	I can't count because it doesn't fit the Rules of Procedure. You can only have extra time to quote when you are declaring advocating a breach of the Rules of Procedure and quoting a provision doesn't count for you. Your request not to count this time would put you in a better position with a positive decision on such a request than other MPs, or we would have a request of another 249 MPs who would say - I want to quote, don't count on me time. So, your five minutes are running. These 15 seconds I'm giving you an answer to your request, I don't count on that time, because I'm wasting it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10942	In any case, it is very clear to the public why Serbian radicals are against Minister Batic, because of his extreme incompetence, indifference and all other things. One thing I don't understand is after reading this argument: why is the DOS so animosity towards its minister? And without our amendments, the government itself, given that it was expertly based on its reasoning, was to put St. Sava and Vidovdan on state holidays and not as working holidays, but as official state holidays. You DOS will explain to Batic yourself what you hate, so you do not accept his proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10943	I ask the Members of Parliament not to make their views and assessments as claims in their address. The National Assembly and you as a member are obliged to express true facts, not attitudes and emotions toward others.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10944	What does St. Sava mean in the Serbian people? It is not clear to anyone how important St. Sava is for the autokefalence of the Serbian Orthodox Church, which was won in 1219. It is not known to anyone that Saint Sava is the founder of Serbian statehood. There is no one who is not known to be the founder of Serbian schools, not the form that we have today, but at the beginning and at the time when the German peoples gathered together in some crusades, so when these warriors collected from the trees, that we had the first forms of literacy, Serbian literature and the foundation of education and education. There is no one who is unknown, and yet very close to us is the building of the St. Sava hospital, that St. Sava is responsible for the Serbian people as one of the founders of the health sanctification of the Serbian people. There's no such thing as unknown to this people. Perhaps some MPs, Titompioners, who want to ignore it, don't want to hear about what Saint Sava was. Perhaps some junior MPs would like to hear more about Billy Kid, Jesse James, Bill Clinton and Monica. Maybe it's more interesting to them than St. Sava. Maybe some people would like to talk about Andy Warhol, about John Cyril and the other gays, but anyway...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10945	I ask the MP to take care of the dictionary who uses the speaker of the National Assembly, no matter what or who it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10946	God will give the next power to establish the day of the Holy Save as a state holiday. In any case, Vidovdan too, one day, with the arrival of a new government and the fall of DOS, will experience a state holiday of glory, pride and honour of the Serb people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10947	I ask the MPs not to speak with the MPs. Do any of the other applicants want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10948	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the proposal for a law on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia and in Article 2 1 after point 2, it is added: "Saves, 27 January and Vidovdan, 28 June". I agree that the state holiday marks the Holy Sava - January 27th. The cult of St. Sava belongs to the most widespread in our country. With his engagement, the Serbian Orthodox Church gained self-cerfality, which brought the divided Serb country together until then and raised its role in waking, building and preserving Serbia's national consciousness throughout the centuries. Vidovdan as a religious holiday was celebrated with Serbs and before Kosovo's color, which was led in Gazimestan on June 28th 1389, or even before the acceptance of Christianity. The Serbs chose this day to start the battle believing they would be in God's mercy. The Kosovo myth has played a significant role in the preservation of Serbia's national consciousness and the fight for liberation, to this day. A team earlier today, that is Gazimestan and all of Kosovo and Metohija under occupation. The day of vision should be preserved as a symbol of freedom and faith in the achievement of the Serbian national being. If this amendment is accepted, Article 5 should be deleted and a legal technical order should be carried out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10949	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote and I am asking the Members of Parliament to make a statement. For 44, against 100, two abstentions, did not vote 25, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3... National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, advertising the violations of the Rules of Procedure. If you're going to quote a provision, I'll rule out that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10950	Madam Chairman, apparently our ranks here in the Assembly have spread out on the basis of Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ask to establish the quorum, I see that there are radicals, there are others, but the MPs of the DOS are in small numbers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10951	National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic is seeking to determine the quoum for continuing work. I ask the MPs to use the electronic system, by putting the cards, to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to refrain from commenting when anyone enters to identify themselves. As chairman of the debate, I abstained from comments and tones, because it was interrupted by the requirement to determine the quorum, which had something that would be like a tone that was not the subject of the amendment. People's MP Vojislav Seselj advertises that he's flooded, I don't think it's a quorum. I don't speak to the MP Vojislav Seselj, who is not present. It's an unidentified facility at a session of the National Assembly. I find that in the course of the quorum-finding process, the same object expresses its views on itself, please make it... I do not know yet, I ask the MPs to see that I do not receive suggestions, except from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so the electronic determination must be carried out, until the chairman assesses whether all MPs have completed their entry, whether or not the quorum is established. Counting can only be done if one of the MPs in the Rules of Procedure raises doubts about the result of an electronic vote. Therefore, there is no basis at this time for asking for a number from the congregation service, because for now I have reason to believe that the electronic system has not recognized some MPs sitting in the Assembly, for a very simple reason why they should give MPs, and by Article 113, they do not communicate with the electronic system, via their electronic cards. So I find that by a certain number of MPs present, a member of the 113s on the obligation to identify and, secondly, I realize that we have a quorum. I therefore find that a good number of MPs in the National Assembly are being abused, and they do not exercise their rights and violate a member of the Rules of Procedure on Identification and Labour at a session of the National Assembly. The amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric to Article 3rd. The government, the Labour Committee, the fighting and social issues... Does MP Zeljo Huric give up the amendment? I find that the MP has withdrawn the amendment and therefore this amendment is not subject to further proceedings. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is the MP identified as present in the O.R.? I find that this moment has been identified and has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10952	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is necessary to add a new position in Article 3 and it should read: "The state and other bodies and businesses are obliged to make the holidays of Articles 1 and 2 of this law in all visiblely defined places, state and other institutions clear only the state symbols of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ." It is necessary to install this attitude into a member of the law for the reason it is the usual way, with a reminder of the historical heritage that we have, by emphasising the flag and all other symbols in the days of national holidays and thus confirming sovereignty in the state territory in which possible abuses are celebrated and prevented. This is not just a proposed position, but for a great reason, because we have very negative experience from the near past with certain separatist political factors in our country, on the whole territory of Serbia, where, by abuse of national holidays, especially in Novi Pazar, in the old Raška area, the flags that have religious, some other significance, the markings of other countries, are not Serbia and the SRJ. What's happening today, and under this authority in our country, is really worrying, and it points us to having to take care of and what we're going to do and when we're already adopting a law like this where you didn't want to accept all our suggestions, especially to celebrate Vidovdan and Savindan. But in this particular number and any number, only symbols and what are the features of the official state of Serbia and the SRJ must be respected. The government's explanation is absolutely incomprehensible to me. The government said it did not accept this amendment of mine because it was arranged and arranged by some other law, and it did not say which law and when it would be arranged. What stands at the National Assembly speaker and above the chairman is absolutely unacceptable. It's something that's left of the Socialist Republic of Serbia, these communist ideological features, so you who kept saying that you're standing up for a country that's going to return the traditional national traits, you didn't do it when you came to power. Practically, we in Serbia have what is on the speaker and above the speaker's seat. What is happening in Vojvodina, due to the separatist aspirations of certain political parties, is worrying, and not only because of this, but because of the destruction and the tenorous breaking of the Serbian national corps there, which is because the current government does nothing to prevent such a phenomenon. Indeed, with such a bitter experience from a few years ago, which we had from the old Raška region, from Novi Pazar, I can openly suspect that members of some dum Shinriko sect or, as they call themselves, the Democratic Union of Vojvodina Croats, who have their vice-president of the Subotic Assembly, who, however, does not call himself Vice President, but on his new speech very differently, on the day of the Serbian state holidays, will highlight the Ustasha chess room. (President: I ask the People's MP to keep an eye on when he says his views on the congregation speaker, on the weight of the spoken word). You know, these are absolutely correct views, that the flag of Ustasha and the Croatian state is the Ustasha chess room. I express my doubts and fear that this will happen if this position is not added to the legal text. It is also in all other features of any species, which are not official markings, symbols of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10953	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? MP Zeljo Huric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10954	I'm advertising a violation of Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure, which says the speaker can only speak about what's on the agenda. Miss Natasha, I thank you for telling me now, but I won't do it again, because of the public, what you said. But you said what you said about yourself. You're an Orthodox Christian, and I'll quote you a saying from a new covenant. There he says, "Don't bow down with what goes into his mouth, but with what comes out of his mouth." That's enough comment on what you said to me now, on my date. But I wanted to say one other thing. About your future predictions and observations, our peoples are sufficiently familiar with our auditorium. They will judge what of it can happen to them. But about what you say was in the past, whether you or anyone else, please tell us in the future who highlighted the forbidden symbols, in which place and what kind of symbol did he highlight? Please do it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10955	The violation of the Rules of Procedure in a member who was advertised by MP Zeljo Huric concerns holding the topic. In part, I must agree that the MP rightly warns, because it is my duty to warn every MP who turns away from the subject, not to do so, because it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The theme of national holidays, especially the topic which essentially has the title - the introduction of religious holidays and the definition of religious holidays, as state holidays, provides a very broad range of arguments for each of the MPs. I intervened with Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic, for the simple reason that I believe that the topic or not, the MP for the National Assembly speaker has no right to express his doubts, fears and fears, and so in those attitudes he represents qualifications for others, but has an obligation to present the facts. A freely spoken word implies a strong, strong responsibility. I ask MP Zelj Huric to say if he wants to vote for the violation of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10956	This is the amendment of MP Natasa Jovanovic, which opens a very important issue for the law on the holidays of the Republic of Serbia. This bill lacks concreteisation of what the holiday means? According to the project, the holiday is just a day off, which isn't good, because it's not enough. There's something else that needs to separate the holiday from a regular day off, like Saturday and Sunday. If it's not concrete in this law, then it'll mean that we've actually just increased the number of Saturdays and weeks, and nothing more. The holiday must be different from the usual day of the day, so that all state authorities, all state institutions and all legal entities that have their seats will be obliged to point out that day in a visible place, in an honorary place, the statehood of the relevant dimensions, neat, clean, ironing etc. All this is required to be defined by one law, so that state authorities can exercise control over whether the law from that aspect is respected. It's necessary that the law contains it. Now it is problematic here whether the republican law can oblige to highlight the federal flag. That should be federal law. Unfortunately, we don't have a new federal holiday law yet, but it's not even a distraction. In any case, this law should undertake to highlight the state flag of the Republic of Serbia. That's what matters. Secondly, about this almost incident of a situation that broke out for no particular reason. As for Novi Pazar, there the Serbian government has seduced provisional measures, as the flag of the Republic of Serbia and other national features of Serbia has been removed, and a party flag has been highlighted as an official flag. We have no objection to the party of Suleiman Ugljanin having a party flag, unless it offends public morality. No matter what she is, it's their party right. But the party flag can't be used where the Constitution and the law are supposed to be used. And following a warning from the republican authorities, the new market local authorities have been deafened and temporary measures have therefore been imposed. So that's the question, so it won't be slow. As for the chess shop, where you intervened in a very unwise way, the Croats never had the chess room as a national flag, to the Independent State of Croatia. It's originally a chess room, like a national flag, a Ustasha flag. They're historical facts. The last Croatian state existed until 1097, when the last Croatian King Petar Svacic was defeated on Mount Gvozd. Then the Croats did not have a chess room as their national flag. Since the 1102nd year of the Pact's treaty, the Croatian state has not existed, it has not existed. The first Croatian state in modern times formed Hitler and its flag was a chess shop. It was the Ustasha state, an open Ustasha, the chess room is the Ustasha flag and the current Tudjmanovska Croatia has taken the Ustasha flag as its flag, with certain non-essential changes. Therefore, when it is said from this pay phone that the chess room is a Ustasha flag, it is one undisputed truth and do not in such a way tastelessly and inappropriately correct the speaker or intervene.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10957	The reply was requested by MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10958	Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of the replica refers to inappropriateness, i.e. objections to the interruption and objection to which I have rights and obligations under the Rules of Procedure. The MP who said fear and fears that Vice President SO in Subotica would highlight the chess box, or the Ustasha flag, should know that the obligation of him who holds the presidency is not to qualify the flags, but to qualify whether what is spoken from this pay phone is in accordance with something that is tolerance, truth, courtesy, respect and treatment that we are bound by each other in the Rules of Procedure. What are personal fears is a topic for other places and for other ways of talking. We are obliged to tell the truth and to tell the facts. However rhetorically wrapped up certain statements and certain exposures in this assembly, I abstained, at least because of the rhetorical skills of certain MPs, to call it openly a hidden intolerance, when it comes to someone else, when it comes to someone different by faith, different by half, different by belief, different by anything. Because it's very sensitive to interrupt someone and not put your own attitude into it. My abstention during the chairing of this part of the session went that way. I have a view that one who's different has to be respected, it doesn't matter how different he is from us, and that he can't spread his own disrespect for diversity, no matter what that difference is. Inappropriation was not about whether one of us qualified the flags as Ustasha or as any other. It doesn't say that in an unwise way I broke up the pay phone. To make it perfectly clear, the interruption referred to a part of the exposure that implies that the MP knows precisely how he behaves, how he behaves, and how he acts in Vojvodina because of his suspicion. There's always been order in Vojvodina, there's always tolerance, there's always respect for diversity. Don't worry about Subotica or Vojvodina. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10959	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I put to vote the amendments of MP Natasa Jovanovic. For 61, against 78, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 17, out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MPs Srboljub Zivanovic, Bozidar Vujic and Lazar Marjanski. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia. Article 3. Paragraph 4 should be deleted, and it reads, "If the holiday from article 1 of this law falls on Sunday, it is not the first day of business." (The bill says "the next day". I don't get it, I should probably say - workday. The time we live in is more difficult than when NATO's pact bombed our country. Then, with the help of many DOS leaders, they hit civilian facilities and killed civilians. People like that should be in The Hague. Those who fought the NATO Pact were sent to The Hague. Now these NATO evildoers are headed by the state, because with their help they've been brought in and they're in their pre-election campaign... (President: Mr. Zivanovic, please stick to your amendment. )......................................................................................................... They promised well-being. When they come out for this pay phone, they keep praying to God because they feel guilty, and there is no Mr. Vladan Batic here. If the promoter cares about putting in working days, I don't think there are any working days. The economy was destroyed after the Friday revolution, no giants work, so workers celebrate every day with the will of the DOS government. Ladies and gentlemen, today, when the most honest work in the largest factory under the clear sky, agriculture, today is harvesting and flying... (President: Mr. Zivanovic, you haven't said a word about your amendment in almost two minutes. Please stick to the subject. )......................................................................................................... both on religious and state holidays, also where factories work without interruptions, production workers do not interrupt. I don't think it's necessary to increase the number of days off for the holidays, to celebrate a state holiday, because this country needs as little time off as possible. In the privatisation process, I think we're all in favour, to know that the owner, the owner of the factory, and that he wants to produce as much as possible, the number of working days will be reduced by the will of the owner anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10961	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10962	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as well as my colleagues from the SRS, Mr Zivanovic and Mr Lazar Marjanski, I have submitted an amendment relating to Article 3 to delete the last 4th position, i.e. that if the national holiday falls on Sunday, and refers to the Meeting of the Lord, then the feast is passed on on on the first day of the work. But if it is a day that should be consistently marked, then just as such it should be consistently marked on the date it falls on and on the day of the week in which it happens, so it is Sunday. Since this Article 3 refers specifically to Article 1 of this Act, i.e. At the Meeting of the Lord, yesterday, in a matter of principle, it was said through a concrete example that in 2004 the DoS will not celebrate Meeting as a state holiday, for on that day the Meeting of the Lord will be on Sunday. On the basis of Article 3 of this bill, the Meeting of the Lord will be transmitted to celebrate on Monday. In this way the DOS government, which on the one hand wants to be expert or expert, shows all its inexperience and inexperience. Why? Because it abolishes the right of Orthodox believers to celebrate their baptismal glory. There is no one who does not know that on February 16th, St. Simeon is a Bogoprimac, if in 2004, this country wants to celebrate the Meeting of the Lord, as is the order and as it should, it will not be celebrated on Sunday, but on Monday. Does this mean that all Orthodox believers, whose baptism is the glory of Saint Simeon the Bogoprimac, will not be able to exploit the legal basis of this legal project. And he won't be able to, because the state holiday will be on their glory and he won't get the right for one day. That's why I proposed this amendment. And not only in 2004, when you count those astronomical, calendar years, it will happen in other years. In this way you insulted all Orthodox Serbs whose baptism is the glory of the Holy Simeon of God. That's why I suggested that if the Lord's Meeting falls on a Sunday day, then it should be celebrated and fully decent, as it is for the Serbian state, and marked. But anyway, since you're in a college of Article 3 and Article 4 and you're going to make this legal solution as proposed in the bill, since you're showing your inexperience and inexperience in a transparent way, that won't surprise me. I won't be surprised that yesterday, in the principle debate, the Vojvodina Coalition said it was for this law, because the Lord's Meeting kind of reminds us of February 15, 1804. But they claim to be in Vojvodina in 1594. The Serbs raised the uprising, so they do not recognise the first Serbian uprising as the first, but argue it is. They will not say, and you are now insinuating that the Serb uprisings in Banat wore flags with the image of St. Sava, that Sinan Pasha, when he spent two years trying to destroy those rebels and that in the end, even the church of St. Nicholas was torn down at Perlez, because of this carrying of Serbian, rebel flags with the image of St. Sava - burned the musts of St. Sava on Vrakar, in order to destroy the spirit of the Holy Sava. If it was Sinan Pasha, why is DOS now destroying the cult of the sacred Sava that exists in the Serb people. But the Serbian people will know to return it to the first election.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10963	There's a word from MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10964	This is about purely practical reasons. Why isn't it supposed to pass on Monday? We've got Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and if it's Monday, there's a lot of rough days. And we know that there is a custom with us Serbs, at least in companies, in mergers for several days, so we have ten and more days off. We have a lot of vacations, we have a lot of fame and for a purely practical reason, those who work in the economy know what it means to have two and more days off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10965	There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, demagogue is very fruitful to stand up for as many days as possible. However, smart countries are trying to minimise the number of working days. That's why we have no reason to so-called. By transferring the holidays from Sunday to Monday, we increase the number of working days. Especially if we're considering one illogicality in this legal project. The legal project says that if the holiday falls on Sunday, Monday's celebration moves, and if it falls on Saturday, it doesn't move. A, by other laws, e.g. Under the Labour Law, Saturday and Sunday are not working days. What does that mean? If Saturday falls, it doesn't move, and Sunday falls. Why? No one can explain why. Why would he even move? Because holiday is a holiday by some of its symbolic qualities, by some of its traditional features, by some of its historical signs, and not above all because of what is not done. What you don't do that day is follow the mark of the holiday. It's being celebrated, so it's not working. It's not about hard work, it's about celebration. And in order to celebrate, it must be celebrated on the very day when the law is prescribed or a certain holiday, when tradition requires celebration. Sometimes what tradition requires is much stronger than what the law prescribes. So it doesn't make any sense to move the celebration. It is much better if the legislators would like to enter into the essence of the legislative project and what would be our general, common, unique interest, to simplify the holiday law, to set all the most significant dates as state holidays, and to avoid this transposition, which is also one of the lags of communist times, and essentially means nothing. Except, leverage those who want as many days as they can. You know, we're gonna get in a situation where we're gonna cut down on the number of vacation days. That fact is objective. Oh, let's just keep increasing the number of days that aren't working. This country's economy can't stand it. And, if he can't take it already, to say openly that he can't, to say openly what would be right, which would be precise, which would have a logical basis, not that we're fooling ourselves by running away from the problem, running away from thinking about automatically accepting something that's left of the dark communist past, and actually has no logical background. There's no acceptable point and there's nothing that can be argued and explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10967	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to vote for 35, against 105, abstention one, did not vote 17, a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10968	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have one amendment covering two topics, which are covered by the last amendments that have been discussed here. In this regard, Article 3(4) of the present Bill provides that, if the holiday provided for in Article 1 of this Act falls on Sunday, it is not to be done on the first day. The amendment, which reads - in the days of the national holidays of Articles 1 and 2 of this Act, state and other bodies, enterprises and other forms of organisation for the performance or service, points out on their business facilities of the flag of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ. I predicted erasing that attitude of the bill and enrolling a completely new attitude, which would pretty much clear the situation, a confusing situation, which this law would create, when its application began. In fact, the bill promoter has provided us with several kinds of holidays here. In Article 1 of the State Holiday, in Article 2 of the religious holidays, in Article 4 of the right employees not to work, in Article 5 of the working holidays. Now I'm asking you, when will the national flags stand out? Whether it will be on the holidays of Article 1, whether it will be on the holidays of Article 2, whether it will be on the holidays of Article 5. - These are all holidays, they're called, they're marked differently, but they're all holidays. I assumed the use of the flags would be defined. There are many reasons, and our political past, the close political past, the last 5-6 years of our political past, directs us to determine the obligations of state symbols, not only the municipalities in which individual parties, who by their separatist activities were in power, and many municipalities in central Serbia, in the provinces where we Serbs are the majority people, in which Serbian political parties were in power, avoided the obligation to highlight state symbols in the days of national holidays. It began as early as the Together Coalition, which took over a large number of municipalities in Serbia and ignored state holidays, although they were set by a law that some, such as that, but the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed. Are we going to get into a situation where certain municipalities, where the Socialists are in power, they say -- this law allows us to highlight the flags on July 4th, so we don't want some holiday from this law, against which we were, to highlight the flags. Will it come to winning again in Raskojoblasti some fundamentalist political party, to begin to highlight its party symbols, to abolish state symbols, and even to lift the Serbian language, at a time when we had to impose temporary measures on them. That wasn't so long ago. Many of them are now with you in the coalition, but you can't forget that. Will the symbols of neighbouring countries be highlighted, as they have so far been highlighted in certain municipalities, in which the peoples of neighbouring countries are the majority, whether they will be prominent, and perhaps they will be. I assume that you, Mr. Shabic, are more educated politically than the predecessors, do not remind us, when we are here to express our predictions, and our fears, and your doubts, and your prognosis. It's our job as a spokeswoman. We are obliged to warn the citizens of Serbia of what we predict will happen, and you must warn of what you predict will happen. And history, and time, always show who was right, so whoever was right, can say right -- I then and then in the Serbian Parliament said that this would come, as some MPs from the current opposition, and some MPs from the current government, come out here for a pay phone, so they remind us of what they said. It's our right. So, this law leaves a great deal of doubt, this law is inconclusive, a team before our holidays are well regulated by this law, but our behavior during the holidays is not well regulated, and the move of the holiday day, Sunday on Monday, and the lack of public symbols. In response, the government has been easy to answer - the subject of this law is not to highlight the state symbols, and thinks it's done its job, and I think that we, as serious people, and we're saved, to solve all the dilemmas here and nothing remains to question - how will they be implemented in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10969	There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10970	It is most appropriate to prescribe in the law on holidays of the Republic of Serbia the obligation to stand out in public places of the state flag of the Republic of Serbia on holidays. It's not exactly the government's argument that there's another state symbol law, there's no flag law. Serbia doesn't, in a legal sense, owns a national flag yet. It has never been implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, as there is no state coat of arms. There is a national flag, the Serbian national flag, which is also here, which has not yet been declared the flag of the Republic of Serbia, silence is being used and some assembly consensus, a recommendation, when a 1992 referendum fell, has been removed. The coat of arms does not exist, because Serbia's constitution, the current constitution of Serbia, stipulates that the coat of arms, flag, and anthem of Serbia are made in the same way that the constitution is made. It hasn't been done yet, you haven't even tried to do it. It was tried once. The ruling majority then did not have a good desire to do so until the end, it was back in 1992. Although DOS's two-thirds majority had some parliamentary initiatives, immediately after the establishment of this National Assembly, it immediately stopped, and apparently no one was interested in doing so. Serbia has not yet defined its flag as a state, has not determined its own coat of arms and has not set its own anthem, although the constitution requires it to have a flag, a coat of arms and an anthem. That was supposed to be resolved before the state holiday issue. But well, the flag is applied, the old Serbian national flag, as the flag of the Republic of Serbia, by recommendation. Well, it can be recommended, but it's applied. But the coat of arms is gone, and the anthem is gone. He's got a national coat of arms. No official decision has yet been made to make that national coat of arms the coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia. There is a Serbian national anthem, there are even several anthems, one of which is the most important - the God of justice, which has not yet been named the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Will, and when, this is now a question referred to by the congregation majority, for which the SRS itself has never been able to reach the congregation's majority, unfortunately. There is also Gordana Comic, in the past, in an incorrect way, mentioned the issue of flags, and I will only say this question once to absorb it. In World War II, the Germans killed about 100,000 Serbs, and the Croats killed nearly a million. Yet it is absolutely forbidden to point out the German Nazi, Hitler's flag, and whoever pointed it out would probably get 60 days in prison with the judge for violations, automatically. On the same basis, one that would point out the Croatian Ustasha flag would have to receive an identical prison sentence. The Hitlerian Nazi German flag cannot be banned, and the Croatian Ustasha flag is allowed. And it's not about any hidden or open threat to those who differ, any minorities, but something that simply can't be debated in a civilized world. Of course, the Germans as a civilized people in their country banned the Nazi flag of Hitler, and the Croats declared the Ustasha flag as their official national flag. It is now the important difference between the Germans and the Croats.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10971	Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10972	The issue of flaging is not just a matter of the national flag. Of course there are some more flags that can be pointed out in Serbia and that will stand out, but that should be regulated legally. There are also pure religious holidays here that are declared national holidays. Personally, I don't mind members of the Islamic religion at Kurban Bayram and Ramadan Bayram pointing out their religious flag, on their religious facilities, for example. I don't mind that on that day next to the Serbian national flag, they also point out their religious flag. They have a religious flag and we know what their religious flag looks like and we have nothing against it. Catholics don't have a religious flag, and in principle I wouldn't mind it being a Vatican flag on that day, but it has to be regulated, so we don't have a Ustasha chess room, as can happen to us under unserious authority. The Ustasha chess room must be absolutely forbidden, as is the Hitler flag with the swastika forbidden.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10973	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment to the vote and I ask you to join the vote. For 32, against 100, one abstention, did not vote 22, out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. The deputy secretary of the assembly informs me that MP Huric has given up the amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10974	Dear People's MPs, when I was saying that the law in its segments is impeccable, that it uses broad terms and terms, I was just thinking of Article 4 and that, on point 2 of this amendment, I asked that this article be changed and that it reads: "Employees have the right not to work on the days of the next religious holidays and that: 1) Orthodox people on the first day of the crosslaw, 2) Orthodox people who celebrate on a new calendar - "We in Serbia have members of Orthodox religion who celebrate on a new calendar, and above all I think of Romanians who have, even, their church with us, then Greeks, whom they have here in small numbers, but no matter how many there are - Catholics and members of recognised, traditional Protestant religious communities," and so on. The 3rd and the 4th would remain the same. Why do I potential this - traditional Protestant religious communities and why - Orthodox people celebrating on a new calendar? For the reason that this authority has announced that it will deal with what religious communities are and that the law will be passed, that this area will be regulated and that the law determines what it is that our Serbian Orthodox Church recognises and what these are by law recognised religious communities. This broad term allows for the possibility for all those who come out of the framework of the recognised traditional Protestant religious communities to celebrate their holidays. First of all, I think of the pseudochrist sects, which, unfortunately, are extremely developed with us and which are taking more and more swings, and one serious government should deal with it and prevent it. That's why it's necessary for a member of the law to be incorporated just like that, so that it doesn't happen. Why did I put in Article 4 instead of, as the legislator predicted, members of the Islamic community - members of the Islamic religion? It is for all the reasons that we have potentiated both yesterday and today, which were primarily referred to by the head of our parliamentary group, which is that there are Serbs who are Islamic religions, there are Roma who are Islamic religions, so there are those who are other nationalities, but they have accepted that religion, but we cannot say that they are members of the Islamic community, but they simply declare themselves so by faith. That is why it is necessary for this member to change, especially in order for members of various pseudo - Christian sects to abuse this legal project, that is, this member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10975	The word is Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10976	I expected the amendment to Natasa Jovanovic to come up with some suggestions, but it seems to have been in vain. One who writes legal texts must be professional, educated, must know, then create a legal norm. If we had such writers of legal projects, our congregation debates would be much shorter and much more often opposition MPs would be willing to accept individual bill proposals. This way, we have so many radically legal texts written, that despite our good will to fix something, with the continued refusal of government and government experts, there is simply no chance of raising our hands for anything that comes from the current government. You see here what is problematic in Article 4 and what is essentially referred to by the amendment of Natasha Jovanovic. At point 1, the Orthodox stand on the first day of the baptism of glory. There's no such thing as a first day of glory. There's the glory of the cross and there are ducks after the glory of the cross, when you're still going to the guests, when you're congratulating the glory of the Christ, etc. But it is not the day of baptism itself, and on that day a religious rite is not performed. The religious ritual and the Slavic cake go only on the day of the baptism of glory. Secondly, not only do Orthodox people celebrate and the writers of this legal project should know. Celebrate Serbian Orthodox, celebrated Serbian Catholics, celebrated Serbian Muslims, famed and Serb Protestants. Then how was this supposed to be determined? You should have said-- and on the day of glory, or--on the day of family glory. The Muslims may not want it to be called the glory of the cross, but on the day of family glory, that would solve the problem. Second, Catholics and members of other Christian religious communities cannot be said. There are Catholic Protestants and there are Christian Orthodox people who have taken over the Gregorian calendar, these are Greeks and Romanians, as far as I know, I don't know if there's any other Orthodox church that's accepted the Gregorian calendar. There is a tendency with us to lead under Christian religious communities and religious sects. It must be prevented by the government, but the government does nothing to prevent it, but, on the contrary, it fills all rows with members of religious sects. So, for example, Dragan Veselinov, who is hot, comes out here and claims that...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10977	Mr. Seselj, please return to the topic. I'm really asking you to get back on the subject, on the bill of state holidays...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10978	It's a theme, it's about religious holidays where we have to make things clear to everyone so that there's no misunderstanding and don't interrupt me because you have no reason to. So we are now in a situation where the minister enlightens Gašo Knezevic, as a member of the sect of Jehovah’s Witnesses, tries to prevent the introduction of religion, for no one normally thinks that the priest of the sect of Jehovah’s Witnesses comes to primary schools and holds religious instruction. That's inadmissible. That's inconceivable.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10979	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10980	They can get free, I don't mind, Mr. Chairman. I don't mind that, I'm even comfortable with it. Most of all, I love it when, with an argument of exposure, I challenge so much anger and revolt from DOS ranks. Furthermore, if this member were to be precise and settled in his basic text, he would be in agreement with Article 2. The law, if the government wants this law to be consistent. Since the government doesn't want and has no interest, it turns out that our efforts are in vain. Our efforts are not in vain, because they see Serbian citizens with how serious we, the Serbian radicals, approach the analysis of this legal text and how much fun it is for you DOS-maniams. We didn't have the first degree, the original intention to entertain you, but if your dating is a collateral consequence of our serious work and effort, then we have nothing against this collateral consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10981	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Nobody. I put to vote the amendments of MP Natasa Jovanovic. For 32, against 100, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 19, and a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment of MP Natasa Jovanovic. National MPs Miroslav Christodulo and Mujo Mukovic submitted to the 4th amendment in the same text. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word comes from Miroslav Christodulo.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10982	My amendment to Article 2 meant that religious festivals of Orthodox ritual would be transferred to Article 4, so academic celebrations, rather than commitment to work. Since my amendment to Article 2 has not been accepted, then this amendment as its supplement makes no sense, and therefore I suggest you vote against it. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10983	You're pulling back? Okay, then I agree, and MP Mujo Mukovic is also withdrawing the amendment. I find amendments to the same text by Miroslav Christodul and Mujo Mukovic have been withdrawn. The amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to Article 4th point 1 of the amendment. And MP Velimir Simonovic gives up the amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic, Milorad Mircic, Slobodan Janjic and Veroljub Arsic. Are any of the applicants answering for a word? Mr. Stamenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10984	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment that a group of SRS MPs have filed is trying to correct the text of Article 4. It's a bill of law. In Article 4 paragraph 1, paragraph 2, stands - Catholics and members of other Christian religious communities on the first day of Christmas and on Easter holidays, starting on the Big Friday, ending on the second day of Easter according to their calendar, have the right not to work, therefore on the days of these religious holidays. We propose to amend Article 4 so that it stands - that Catholics and members of other recognized Christian religious communities do not work on the first day of Christmas and the first day of the Easter holiday according to their calendar. That's because we don't think it's necessary to increase the number of working days for the celebration of religious holidays. It is a little strange that two days that symbolize Serbia, such as the day of St. Sava and Vidovdan, celebrate work, and on the other hand some days, some other peoples or members of other religious communities, we favor and allow to celebrate for several days. This is similar to that of the former communist -- when the word of a Serb is mentioned, it is already a great heart, and it should be choked at all costs, and that all are allowed more rights to fulfill the specificities and their nationality than to Serbs. So I suggest that this amendment be accepted and that the text of Article 4 be improved in this way. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10985	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10986	Before I begin by explaining the amendment's proposal, just to point out the mistake made by the Service of this congregation. I have handed over the amendment to Article 3 of Section 4 in the ordinary procedure and Mr. Chairman, no, I won't give it to you, you may not be in this assembly tomorrow, I will give it to the secretary, how do I know, you don't know anything. In fact, these proposals for amendments proposed by the SRS are about the principled attitude to reduce the number of working days. What is interesting, the promoter not only accepts this proposal as an amendment by the SRS, but not a single proposal of Serbian radicals, no matter how scientific -- historically justified. It's an amazing thing. When explained and exposed from this pay phone by Serbian radicals, instead of taking advantage of the opportunity here to learn something, they create obstruction and earn. In particular, those who rode the priest by yesterday or participated in the horseback riding of the priest, those who fled the church, those individuals who locked their relatives in the pantry during baptism and family celebrations, for they had a negative impact on the officials of the Christian glory. (President: Mr. Mircic, please return to the topic. ) You are now being taken from the chest bench and earned, I guess to make up for what their parents took from them when they invited guests into the house. They would have been better off if they had stayed in the pantry than if they had come to this congregation. Anything else, then at least out of respect for these holidays that are proposed as state, at least out of respect to listen, and their will and desire -- if they want to accept it, we can't influence it. It's another interesting thing that individuals - DOS members come out for this pay phone and insist on equating the right of sexual minorities with the rights of national minorities. Gentlemen, if you have any problems, solve them in your own party. (President: Please stick to the topic. ) Where are you, sir - are you in national minorities or in sex? (President: Please stick to the topic. You haven't spoken a word about your amendment in three minutes, and that's why you went out for a pay phone. ) The amendment is spoken of. (President: Do you know what the proposal for your amendment says? I know very well. Secondly, I don't care if you think you tell me what it says. I'm not interested in your opinion. (President: I am not yours either, Mr. Mircic, but I am obliged to listen to you. You're talking about the subject. You are by all laws and regulations of the past. So you'd better devote this time to learning how to talk about technique, to get electrocuted... (President: Mr. Mircic, just because it's me I can't give you a warning. You're really being rude and I'm asking you to talk about the subject. You can insult me as much as you want, I won't give you a warning, because it's personal antipathy, but stick to the subject and talk about what you went out for. I'm not interested in you personally. You may be interested in those of the Social Democratic Union and me. Nor do I have anything personal against you... (President: If you did, I don't care, but I am obliged to warn you on the subject. Mr. Chairman, don't argue, we're wasting our time. What I'm appealing for, and I think most of them are thinking about -- gentlemen, don't use this pay phone to promote your sexual bias. However, you must make sure that in Serbia, if anything, most of the normal people are. Don't lose sight of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10987	Any of the amendment applicants come forward for a word? Yeah. If the gentlemen come forward, then we'll set a break by 3:30, and if not, we might be able to hold a vote. They also have the right to speak to Mr Janjic and Arsic. I'm setting a break until 3:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10988	We're continuing the session in the afternoon. According to official records for the afternoon session, 130 MPs have been reported. Please, for the sake of continuing to work, let's approach the quorum determination. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We continue the discussion in detail. In the afternoon, we stopped at the Namandman on Article 4. Are there any more applicants who want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10989	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 4. Article 4, for the MPs of the DOS, we are discussing a proposal for a law on national holidays. Since they don't even know what this is about, I need to remind them, so they know how to vote afterwards, and they'll probably be careful and they'll listen to me very well. In attitude 2, which reads: "Catholics and members of other Christian religious communities - on the first day of Christmas and on Easter holidays, starting on the Big Friday and ending on the second day of Easter, according to their calendar", I propose to my amendment: "Catholics and members of other recognised Christian religious communities, on the first day of Christmas and the first day of Easter holidays according to their calendar." I don't think it's necessary to increase the number of days off for the celebration of religious holidays. As of October 5, everything is starting to fail, or the factories stop working, and that is a lot of unworkable days. The fact that individuals are disturbed by Serbian Orthodox holidays is nothing new, because in their parties' programmes, Serbia is not their state. But they all need to understand that they live in the state of Serbia, and Serbia is a Serbian state, whether you want it or not. That those in Serbia live evenly among other peoples and ethnic groups, different creeds, never bothered us Orthodox Serbs. We've always been proud of our religious tolerance. While the citizens didn't know what was pushed into DOS, you won the elections, and now that we see what you're pushing each other, you get 4% of the vote in the re-election. After all, for most of you from DOS, the world did not come from Adam and Eve, but from Adam and Steve. That theory of yours only benefits Vaseline producers. You're really the worst. In our house, when we're weaning without eggs, we bathe them in a bucket of water.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10990	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Veroljub Arsic, as the applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10991	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since the amendment is in the same text as the other three MPs, I would no longer like to read it. I wouldn't even want to discuss whether these are religious holidays that should be declared state and how many days. I'll look more at the practical part of this amendment. Already in the debate in principle, I touched on the very issues of these religious holidays and the number of days to be celebrated, and Mr. Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia Batic came out for this pay phone and said that during the drafting of these laws and proposals, they handled the experiences of Western European countries and how they celebrate. I'm sorry Mr. Batic's not here right now. I'd like to tell him they're celebrating potato day in the West. I'm surprised, gentlemen of the DOS, that you keep taking over from the West what's wrong. You only take cars from the good stuff. Most of the time, you're only taking it badly, and you accept it -- ultimatums, corruption, prostitution, drug abuse, homosexualism. Even individual members of the government tried to accept the day of pride for one of the holidays or at least as a manifestation. On that day of pride, however, the Serbian people said that from now on it is called a day by the nose of homosexuals. Instead of turning to Western experiences, which have 10 to 15, and even 20 times the standard of living, we'd better use the experience of some other countries, as they come to what they now possess. In some countries children were raised in schools to live in poor countries, with small natural resources, and they had to work hard to be able to live decently. For the past 50 years, I will take Japan as the most extreme example, with such a single doctrine has grown into one of the most powerful economic forces in the world. As for living standards, it is extremely higher than in Western European countries. We are today, I can say, Serbia in general, a rich country with poor people. In order to be a rich country with a rich people, it is not necessary to increase the number of working days, but to reduce it, as foreseen by this amendment. One more thing to say, if all of this is regulated in this way, if you increase the number of days that are not working under the republican laws, according to federal laws, by religious holidays, if you subtract 10% to 15% from the total number of working days during the year, I don't understand how you're going to privatise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10992	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote and I am asking the Members of Parliament to make a statement. For 31, against 117 abstentions, one did not vote 17 out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Before moving to Article 4(1) and on the basis of Rule 82(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in the afternoon session, MP Milorad Mircic indicated to the chairman that his amendment to Article 3(4) The proposal for a law on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted in the same text next to it by MPs Srboljub Zivanovic, Bozidar Vujic and Lazar Marjanski did not enter the assembly procedure. A review of the National Assembly found that Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic simultaneously submitted two amendments to Article 3 and Article 4 at the same time. The draft law, both in one instance, with the original text of the amendment returned to Article 3 as a copy, in which the approval of the amendment to Article 4, is therefore not given in the assembly procedure. An apology shall be made to the People's MP, Milorad Mircic, for this accidental mistake. By declaring the same amendment of the MPs of the people, Srboljub Zivanovic, Bozidar Vujic and Lazar Marjanski de facto declared their amendment. But also de facto was denied the right to explain the amendment, regardless of what was in the same text. So it doesn't get suspicious. In accordance with Article 82(2), I am informing the National Assembly, and you have all received this, of Mirko Petrovic's resignation as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a report from the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of MP Mirko Petrovic's term of office on the day of his resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the time of his election, to MP Mirko Petrovic, elected from the election list DOS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, on the day of his resignation. The Law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament will be filled in on the empty seat of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with Article 82, I would like to inform you of the confirmation of the mandate of the MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable it to participate in the work of the National Assembly. A report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a member of parliament was presented to lawmakers to fill a vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5), would be approved. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Đura Popovic, elected from the election list of the Serbian Unity Party - Prof. Borislav Pelevic. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find that the mandate of MP Đura Popovic is confirmed. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. We move on to Article 4. The amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurovic to Article 4. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I see it, this is a fucking amendment, but it doesn't matter. There's the word "Christian" left out. With the amendment, I tried to influence that only traditional, recognized Christian religious communities are treated by this law, because quasi-Christian, pseudo-Christian communities, as they call themselves or sects, as we call them, are greatly out of danger over our land and our environment. The government didn't accept the amendment. They say that the proposed solution is fundamentally different from the solution set out in Article 4(2). A bill of law that's clear enough. It's essentially very different. Article 4th point 2, says that Catholics and members of other Christian, religious communities, and I say "recognized, traditional Christian religious communities", and I say "on Christmas and Easter", and here it says "on the first day of Christmas" (which does not exist). It's Christmas and he's one. "And in the days of Easter break, it begins with the Big Friday, ending with the second day of Easter." So it's essentially different and the sects are off and it means one day of Christmas is celebrated. There's no first, second and third days. The second day is Parliament, the third day is St. Stephen, etc. Not Big Friday as a day of mourning and not a resurrection Monday and Tuesday, but just Easter. That is the fundamental difference between my amendment and the legal solution proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10994	Do any of the other participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to vote for 41, against 122, the two abstentions, did not vote 9, out of the 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 4th, paragraph 2, the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10995	By amendment to Article 4(2), we are trying to do what appears to be impossible in the National Assembly, to invite you, at least, to common sense if you can't reason and if you can't... Well, you should warn your parents, it's a genetic thing. It's a matter of training. Are you able to invoke or not? And to me, if we gave a little more pay, I might be able to do what's impossible to do, to invite individuals to common sense. We still don't have the law on religion, on religious communities, what it's going to be called, and here's the legislator of the law that didn't engage in that matter, he wanted to determine when it wasn't going to work. It predicts that members of other Christian religious communities do not work, so it says, "the first day of Christmas and the day of the Easter holidays", each according to its calendar. The promoter here was either a proposing representative or, at least, someone representing this law in front of the National Assembly, to tell us taxing, because all of us who know something about it, we know it's not a big list, to tell us what other Christian religious communities were thinking. Indeed, this law is full of doubt, it's full of unresolved points, and the bill has very few points. I'm interested in what happens when they're asked not to work on some of their days and turn to members of various sects. The employer will not be able to say that they are forbidden because they all claim to belong to the Christian religious community, to belong to Christianity. Various left and right, everyone thinks that they best interpret both the old and the new letter, and that they respect Jesus Christ best, and everyone thinks that others are wrong to rule them out, and where will that take us? Are we going to give everyone equal status with those who recognize the whole world? So if the government doesn't want to think about it, think about it, you MPs. One thing must be clear to you, the people tie you to this government. What laws the government delivers here and what you adopt, so the people appreciate you. Don't let one of you decide to go to church, face questions immediately why you predicted it in that law, and this way, when it's actually supposed to be different. I hope you'll go to church sometime. Leave the paper alone, get dressed nice, get dressed, then go to work, and there's someone waiting for you who knows it, so he says - but how could you do that too? Then you'll say-- it's the government's fault. It is not the government's fault, the government is doing as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia permits. This majority assembly of the National Assembly allows the government to do whatever it wants, even the adoption of an amendment to this bill is a sign that the government is doing what it wants. And the fact that you haven't thought enough about the amendments to the other members of the bill is a sign that you're still ready to let the government do what it wants. And then when the question is asked -- who allowed it all, then you'll have to answer for everything you've done. I repeat the council of an experienced MP - don't read too much the paper, don't paint your hair, but work a little bit on the draft laws, a little bit of the matter delivered to you by the ministers, you'll see for yourself, that you are by any chance the opposition, and that this bill comes from some government, could not defend this pay phone against your applications for discussion. All of this has changed in you, you're able to name everything that's been done, and the state is sinking deeper and deeper, the relations between citizens are getting worse, even I mean, the more irreconcilable relations between the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10996	Does anyone else want a word from the authorized participants in the debate? He doesn't want to. ) If not, put the amendment to the vote. For 36, against 124 abstentions, there was no vote of 19, out of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 5th amendment. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10997	Article 5 was to regulate the entire form of legislation, which DOS, the DSS majority, by concept and by proposals through amendments and through the general debate of the SRS did not want to accept. This is also the nearing of the end of the debate on the law in particular, and what to say after all - two days we talked about what was so messed up, put together a hill-snare, through the work of some experts, some commission hired by the government, and what government, such as the bill. However, it has also been heard from DOS order, from some honest MPs, who have gone a little deeper into the analysis of this bill, that the law is not good, and they have in some way, which we, of course, disagreed, wanted to fix. The only thing that was right was what the SRS proposed. Article 5 was to be deleted, that DOS's, DSS's majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, accepted only what was right, which is that two of the largest Serbian holidays, Vidovdan and Savindan, were unworkable days, and no one had heard from the head of the defiled DOS group, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, at the persistent insistence of the representatives of the SRS, to tell us what it is that bothers them and what it is that they object to such amendments, if it is given that these are the greatest Serbian holidays, primarily Vidovdan, which connects to the old Serbian faith and the holiday that means a lot to us, and above all, the Holy Sava Sava, which was to be unworkable day and marked as a day of Serbian spirituality. There was no argument at all. There were only some hollow and empty stories, attempts to hold moral sermons, sermons on good behavior, as if we were speaking from a congregation speaker, which is not in the spirit of our tradition, in the spirit of our history, and in fact, we wanted to express, through such a legal proposal, the law that will apply in the Republic of Serbia, the maximum religious tolerance, and in other words, the possibility of it being widely interpreted, to be misused by those who are primarily organized into sects. I think the congregation's majority should have thought a lot better, finally put a finger on his forehead, after criticizing all the devastating legal projects you've heard here. Therefore, since the amendments I have made and the MPs of the SRS have not been adopted on Article 2, it is without substance that we are talking about an amendment to Article 5, which is why I am withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10998	Since the applicant for the amendment has withdrawn the amendment, he hereby ceases to be the subject of the debate. The amendment to Article 5 was submitted by MP Borislav Pelevic. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u10999	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have proposed an amendment to Article 5, and I propose that it reads: "The Republic of Serbia celebrates the unworkable Holy Sava, on January 27th, as the Day of Spirituality and Enlightenment and Vidovdan - working, June 28th, as a reminder of Kosovo's battle and the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of Serbia." Just let me explain the amendment. It is common knowledge that our children in primary and secondary schools have been celebrating the Holy Sava for many years as a day of education, as a day of school, and I therefore believe that the definition proposed by the promoter, to be just a day of spirituality, should be complemented, to be a day of spirituality and enlightenment, that is, a day of spirituality and education. Also, I propose that Vidovdan be not only a mention of the Kosovo battle, but rather a symbol of the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of Serbia. Vidovdan should also be our constant reminder that we must never forget that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia and Yugoslavia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11000	Anyone else want a word from the authorized? There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11001	Since DOS's majority has gone deaf to all the amendments so far, concerning the celebration of St. Sava and Vidovdan, as a holiday in the true sense of words, I think this is now the last chance, although I would have objections to the formulation itself, but this is the last chance to accept that Vidovdan and St. Sava are holidays in the right sense of words, to be celebrated in such a way that they will not work in state institutions, legal persons, by companies of all kinds. As an additional argument, I think that the amendment should be adopted, precisely because of this great shame that was inflicted on us on Vidovdan in 2001, the destruction of the legal order and the delivery of Slobodan Milosevic to the criminal tribunal in The Hague. I'll read to you, there was an honorable man in DOS here, his name was Mirko Petrovic, and he resigned. If there are more honorable ones, I have no doubt, but they should resign, like Mirko Petrovic, because all of you MPs of the DOS bear responsibility for the DOS procedure, you are counting on it. None of you can wash off responsibility for what the DOS government did.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11002	I ask the MP to return to the subject, or to the content of the amendments, and to respectfully refer to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11003	This is an explanation of my support for the amendment. Wait, you're not going to support the amendment on my behalf, are you? I support Mr Pelevic's amendment and this is an explanation of my support, and now you would like to do the same for me. Don't. Even if you promised to vote for the amendment, I wouldn't let you. Mirko Petrovic says, explaining his resignation -- "I decided on this step following the handover of former SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague tribunal. "
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11004	I ask the MP to explain the link between the amendment and the resignation of MP Mirko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11005	"This procedure by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in my opinion the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which do not foresee any possibility of extradition of our citizens. At the same time, it also violated the basic Constitution guaranteed the rights of the individual, because at the time of the extradition, Slobodan Milosevic was under the exclusive jurisdiction of the court, without whose decision in such a case the executive authority should not have acted. Since the first election for the National MP of this assembly in 1990, I have consistently advocated the principle of rule of law, because respect for this principle is the guarantee of political democracy and the foundation of every democratic society. The government of the Republic of Serbia's policy, supported by the DOS parliamentary group, has deviated from this principle and I am therefore forced to resign." Are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11006	I understand you've now resigned to office.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11007	As usual, you always get it wrong. The problem is therefore in your ability to understand, because if you were a little more reasonable than you are otherwise, you would have done the same as Mirko Petrovic and resigned.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11008	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has Branislav Ivkovic, then Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11009	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is clear that the time has passed around this law that we have essentially abolished the holidays of March 28th, or you DOS majority, and July 7th. In yesterday's discussion, I pointed out that, by abolishing July 7th, we have literally said that the right to self-defense has no value in these areas, because simply the right to self-defense expressed in the fight against fascism, obviously, has no value of respect, nor the right to self-defense in the fight against NATO aggressors, because the man who led that self-defense of this people and this country is now in The Hague. That is why the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group supports Mr. Pelevic's proposal that Vidovdan be a holiday, because if we abolished the right to self-defense by abolishing July 7th and fighting Fascism, let at least symbolically that right of the Kosovo Battle, which shows the power of the Serb people and the desire for its integrity, its statehood, the preservation of the national being, so let Vidovdan replace that symbolism of the rights of this people and the citizens of Serbia to fight for self-defense, against anyone who wants to manage these areas. On the other hand, on March 28th, I repeat, it is essentially a big mistake that this holiday has been abolished, because if February 15th, the Meeting, when Karadjorje raised the 1804th year of the uprising, the day 30 years later the first Constitution of the Belgrade Pashalu, then Serbia, was passed as a law, we can and have the right to think today as citizens of Serbia, that the idea of leadership of both the Karadjordje and those who passed the Sretenski Constitution for the Belgrade Pashaluk and was precisely that it should be welcomed on March 28th 1989 and that Serbia be integrated on its territory and that Serbian citizens have the right to manage within their own state. That's why it was March 28th and it was a holiday. You have abolished it, and that is why St. Sava, as a Serbian Enlightener, as a symbol of the preservation of the identity of the Serbian people, of national pride and national dignity, which has been trampled these days, and it should be a true holiday and it has been so far. To know that we live in a country that defines itself as a state of citizens in its first sentence. It was the Socialists who fought to make such a constitution a multinational, multi-confessional community, yes, but Serbia is also the state of the Serbian people. The Holy Sava can only be a positive example for all those communities living with the Serb people, for Saint Sava is an enlightener, a peacemaker, a man of good intentions toward all. In order to preserve this thread that was interrupted by the suspension of March 28th, we advocate that St. Sava, as the day of the celebration of spirituality, of education, of those most bright moments of the Serbian people, will be a holiday, a true holiday like Vidovdan, and therefore we support Mr. Pelevic's proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11010	MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11011	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in politics everything is possible, so it is possible for the government and the parliamentary majority in this House to respect the disrespect of tradition. It is possible that those who placed Edward Cardell in the place of the Holy Sava and celebrated for Vidovdan on July 7th, today accuse us of inconsistencies, inaccuracy, ignorance, and patriotic incompetence. Many times so far, in the past five months, we have said that you are not the ones who can teach us patriotism and that your actions are not the measure of our patriotism. For us, your suggestions are unacceptable because they are deeply contrary to the spirit of our society, contrary to the character of our country. We very clearly demonstrate our intention and respect our tradition, but at the same time we want to offer this society something more than it does. We want to think about the time ahead. If by 1941, and Serbia existed before 1941 and Zikica Jovanovic-Spanca, the citizens of this society knew the right way to respect their tradition and the right way to think about the future, we are obliged to continue that way. Therefore, these requirements for us are unacceptable, which cannot be interpreted by our incorrect relationship to our own heritage. As for the resignation of Mr Petrovic, it is a brave, personal gesture that deserves respect. It's the attitude of a man who defends his political position for the past 10 years, as he says. We can agree with him on that, we can argue, but certainly for me, as a man representing a political group, in which Mr. Petrovic worked in the previous five months, it is unacceptable that his rights represent Mr. Vojislav Seselj. It is the person whom Mr. Petrovic would prefer to answer himself and I think he will do so first chance, but it is the person from whom Mr. Seselj can learn much. He can learn, among other things, how to resign, that it is a moral act that depends on no one but him who decides on him, and especially does not depend on Milan Milutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11012	MP Vojislav Seselj, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11013	National MP Mirko Petrovic resigned, and you have avoided reading from this pay phone his resignation, so I have done so by respecting Mirko Petrovic and what he, as his move, has withdrawn after the disgusting act of delivering Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague tribunal. Of course resigning is the moral right of every man, but usually it is the right of those who have morals alone. Mirko Petrovic here says -- because of a violation of the rule of law that he resigned. The rest of you, and you don't know what the rule of law is, because if you knew, you wouldn't explain it by the principle of usefulness. For you, the Constitution would be sacred and not the minister of justice would say that the Constitution is not the Holy Scriptures. The Constitution is the most sacred letter and there is nothing more sacred than the Constitution for any state body. It's above the Bible, above all, for every state institution. You had to respect that, and you had to treat it that way. Just because the rule of law doesn't mean anything to you, which is why you challenge the Constitutional Court's decision on the basis of the fact that the specific judges are bad people, tells you about the nature of your authority, because based on personal assessments of what kind of people you are, you're making a court of state institutions, you're not giving state institutions, but this issue you committed on Vidovday in 2001 will remain the most shameful letters in Serbian history, and you can't escape from it. Not just you, your descendants will suffer for it and I'm convinced of it. Remember Obrenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11014	I ask the MP not to threaten the private lives of other MPs, especially not to mention children and descendants. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11015	Dear Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Article 95, I think there has been a violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in Article 88(5). The head of the parliamentary group has the right to participate more than others, both in the work of the National Assembly and in principle, and in particular. We, at this point, have not received the necessary documents based on which we can know that Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic is the head of the parliamentary club. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic is the head of a parliamentary club that no longer exists. We have no evidence that a new parliamentary club has been formed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this National Assembly and in accordance with the practice that exists here. So, as long as the president of the National Assembly, or the one whom he represents under his authority, the MPs are not informed of who is head of the Parliament club and who makes up the DOS parliamentary club or the rest of the DOS and what its real name is, we cannot tolerate Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic getting word over the line. We ask the People's Assembly to plead for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11016	Yesterday, the National Assembly was informed that members of the DSS Parliament Club, notices and signatures by the Rules of Procedure of the chairman of the National Assembly, were singled out. They are no longer members of the DOS parliamentary club, where the president is MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Since the MP asked for a vote, I ask the National Assembly to state whether giving a word to the MP and to the president of the DOS Parliament Club is a broken Rules of Procedure. For 55, against 107, a abstentioned one, was not voted on by 17, out of 180 MPs, confirming that the Rules of Procedure had not been broken. Are any of the other participants in the debate answering for a word? No, I don't. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 50, against 108, a abstentioned one, was not voted 21, out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11017	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Article 5 of the bill provided that the Holy Sava, 27 January, as a day of spirituality and Vidovdan were to be celebrated in Serbia as a memorial to the Kosovo Battle, on June 28th. With such a cynical and ironic proposal by one member of the law, two large Serbian dates have been crushed. They were brought in on July 4th, July 7th, November 29th, because what is the difference among citizens between January 27th and July 4th? What will make it known that on January 27th, the working Republic of Serbia celebrates the Holy Sava. It will also celebrate on November 29th. It is unacceptable to me that on the second day of Easter, you have declared the holidays that are unworkable days, and that two great days of Serbian history, St. Sava and Vidovdan declared the days that you only mentioned here in the law, and that was the sole purpose of Article 5. It's a bill of law. Don't let anyone tell you you didn't even mention those days. Here, they're mentioned, we'll celebrate them at work. What does that mean? You should understand that for this Vidov day, June 28th, this isn't enough as a penance. What you mentioned, the victim, although under sacrifice, could be led by something that has a sacred purpose, but what you did on Vidovdan with much more serious consequences for yourself personally, in world history, made by a lot of people. Agamemnon did it, Jephthah did it, they were daughters, Milos Obrenovic did it, he took the head of Karadjordjevo to Carigrad. And Kostunica, Djindjic, Batic, Dusan Mihajlovic, Cedomir Jovanovic and all of you, for Vidovdan, you extradited Slobodan Milosevic. Now you can freely tell me that when they tell you, calling on God and everything and believing in God, that sin will not remain unpunished, you can freely tell me to threaten. I'm not threatening you. I read a few books, and in those few books I found, in those very few books, evidence of this claim. What if I'd read a lot of books like you? How I found it in just a few books of history: both Obrenovic and many other traitors have crushed their offspring. You're not even thinking about what you're doing. You don't consult your parents, you don't consult your children, you don't consult the church. It's not enough, my dear gentlemen, for you to cut short, so now you want to help build temples. It's not enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11018	I ask the MP not to make any claims concerning...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11019	I'd be ashamed if I'd just made a little public emergency. Furthermore, it is not enough for you, my dear gentlemen, that Mercedes, Audi and Kraissler do not arrive to build armored cars as long as it takes the federal government and the government of Serbia, and individual MPs, which for you, which for our salary... Yesterday I saw a Kalashnikov in Cedomir Jovanovic's jeep.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11020	I ask the MP to return to the topic or prove a connection between the Kraisslers and the state holidays of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11021	It's Communism, people one story, and themselves another. The people, the story of equality, freedoms, the story of Europe, of a better life.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11022	I ask the People's Messenger to return to the topic and ask other MPs not to earn it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11023	In the meantime, the sooner you jump into what is called privileges, because these privileges won't last very long. If I had been the shepherd of the DOS parliamentary group and had lost 60 MPs in six months, I would have resigned a long time ago. I couldn't stand it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11024	Thank you, too, if that's what you can say. Anyone else want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Stanko Kovacevic. I ask the People's Messengers for patience and to hear from each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11025	Madam Chairman, from Articles 98 to 101 yesterday and today, many speakers, and you yourself, are constantly hurting him. It is simply that you are not clear to me at all, where you find such a degree of tolerance for many insults, for many deviations from the agenda, which MPs use for this speaker. You do not insist on applying the Rules of Procedure. A speaker just now insults, and you are asking him not to do so anymore, and you are required to apply the Rules of Procedure and to make an automatic statement to the MP for insults. If you know God, the chairman, you use your rights from the Rules of Procedure a little bit more to seduce your order in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11026	As for the violations of the Rules of Procedure, MP Stanko Kovacevic is absolutely right when it comes to the automatic application of the Rules of Procedure. That's what you need an explanation for. I told MP Tomislav Nikolic that he cannot make claims concerning the private life of others. It is up to the chairman to assess whether the MP intends to make these claims, to bring about the automatic application of the Rules of Procedure, or whether there is an intention to interfere with the overall work of the National Assembly session, or whether it is its current emotional expression, for its own reasons and for its own rhetorical abilities. The ultimate goal is to maintain sessions of the National Assembly in order, peace, mutual listening, in the atmosphere of tolerance and without unnecessary eccessum, if possible, to avoid them. Do you want me to put a vote in violation of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) I ask the Members of Parliament to plead for the violation of Article 98 which speaks of a warning to MPs who violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, of course, on my part. For 86, against 33, with 26 abstentions, 35 of the 180 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision not to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Anyone else want a word? MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11027	The amendment of MP Tomislav Nikolic is an opportunity for me to make a brief recapitulation - what is good and what is bad in this law, since it is obvious that you will vote on a legal project exactly as it has been submitted, with a small change in the first member. It's a good thing he was lifted on July 7th as a holiday. It was a great shame for the Serbian people, a terrible shame, a huge shame. It is good that the shame is lifted, because then no right to self-defense was affirmed, but a Serb gendarme was killed from the back, and he was killed by communist Zikica Jovanovic - Spanish. They even say it wasn't Serbian nationality, it doesn't matter who it was. But the date itself is very embarrassing for the entire Serbian people. It is good that the holiday was abolished on March 28th, although the 28th is a significant date in Serbian history, because Tito and his communists, the most guilty Serbian communists, the 1974 Constitution definitely made the Serbian people sick, and Serbian communists gained little power in 1988 and 1989 to at least partially correct it, so they returned Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija under the sovereignty of this slaved Serbia. Serbia is narrowed down until it reaches Karlobag. However, that date, although history will remember it, is not big enough to be celebrated. That's why it's a good thing it's been lifted. It is a good thing that the 15th of February - Meeting of the Lord was introduced as a holiday. Too bad it's not like constitutional day, but it's good as a holiday, so until this law changes. It's going to happen very quickly, maybe in half a year, at the top of your head for a year, and then everything that's not right in this current text will be fixed. About, I see what will be left: the feast of the meeting of the Lord will remain, but with the reshaping that it is the day of the constitution. Christmas and Easter will remain, of course, along with some logical and mental changes, as well as religious holidays of other confesions. What is the greatest lack of this law is that St. Sava and Vidovdan are not holidays in the right sense of words. I am convinced that as soon as the new government of Serbia is established, this key lack of current law will correct it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11028	Do any of the other participants want a word? (No). I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 53, against 110, there were no abstentions, not 17 votes, out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Velimir Simonovic and Zeljo Huric. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? National MP Velimir Simonovic gives up the amendment. He has the word of MP Zeljo Huric, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11029	Dear fellow Members of the People, let me just say two or three words, unrelated to the amendment. In fact, it is already evident that we will accept this law with that one change to the first term. It's normal for me to keep that model that I suggested is the best model of the law. It seems to me, I'm more than sure, that eventually they'll adopt it. Of course, the sooner I get, the happier I'll be. What will not be adopted now I want to attribute more to my own shortcomings, but perhaps to DOS weaknesses, simply because of my emotional connection to DOS, and also to the image that this political organisation enjoys in these areas. I'm really sorry my law didn't pass, but let it be my fault. Let that be a reflection of my political profile, a profile that couldn't say strong enough to convince you of the correctness of my attitude, but I'm left to get better, to be better and to convince you next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11030	Did MP Zeljo Huric withdraw the amendment? Yeah. ) I find that the amendment has been withdrawn and thus ceases to be in the procedure. This ended the search in detail and the amendment decision. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11031	Since there is soon to vote on the full law, it would indeed be a shame for opposition representatives to adopt this law themselves, so I ask you to establish a quorum so that, in the meantime, MPs of the ruling majority can be gathered, because whenever we ask for a quorum, that is when they come from the hallway, restaurant or the city. Please confirm the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11032	I ask the MPs to establish the quorum at the proposal of MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. I'm guessing we have a quorum to continue the session. Does the Proposer's representative want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) In that case, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. I put to the vote the draft law on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 111 against 57, a abstentioned one, was not voted by three, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia. That's how we ended up working on the 7th point of the agenda. [[Applause]] We move to the 8th point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Construction of Objects by the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11033	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in accordance with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia suggest that the duration of the discussion be five minutes. I'm not diminishing the importance, but I think five minutes is quite enough for the problem this law is dealing with to bring out everything that's in its head. So five minutes is my proposal to take the time of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11034	According to the Rules of Procedure? National MP Vojislav Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11035	I suggest that every MP's participation in the debate be 30 seconds. It's an optimal time, and I'm asking you to vote 30 seconds, because you, DOS, are certainly not up to debate. You have no interest in the debate, he hates you to listen to the opposition, because the opposition raises a guilty conscience to you. So we cut it to a maximum to 30 seconds per MP, so that you too may be satisfied, and that Serbian radicals do not torture you too much, because they are really becoming unbearable to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11036	MP Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11037	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not about DOS capabilities, it's about a rational relationship with the work we're doing. These sessions cost, five minutes is quite enough. that we are discussing illegal construction or in a legally prescribed way sanctioning all those who, during the time of Serbia's collapse, were illegally building. [[elevator in the O.R.]] In 30 seconds, we couldn't even count Mr. Seselj's rooms, let alone mention everything they left behind. Therefore, five minutes is enough time for a reasoned and responsible debate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11038	I remind the MP that the proposal has already been submitted. National MP Vojislav Seselj, the basis for the replica, is mentioned in the presentation of the Rules of Procedure of Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11039	Wait, Chad, wait, wait, Chad's gone, stop Chad, wait, Chad...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11040	I ask the Messenger of the people and the messengers of the people to remember that the movement of the messengers of the people is free.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11041	Yeah, but Chada just forgot to get a tantrum, so he comes in here to count my rooms.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11042	I ask the MP not to express his views on the traits of other persons' private lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11043	It's not an attitude. I don't have any attitude towards Cedi Jovanovic, I only have a finding, which is generally known. Notation facts don't prove themselves, do they? Secondly, this time he was fast and efficient, that's good. Now he'll probably say something more meaningful when it starts to work, right, Chad?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11044	I'm asking the MP to either move on to a replica or...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11045	Wait a minute, it's about my nine rooms. As for my rooms, Cedomir Jovanovic has a basic problem that none is illegal. All are legally, according to the building permit, according to the urban permit and even the technical reception is done. Unlike Cedomir Jovanovic, none of my rooms are uninhabited. And if I need it, maybe I'll have another room to come by, because I feel in full strength, I don't smoke, I don't drink alcohol, and I don't sniff what's called, I can't remember. Having convinced me Cedomir Jovanovic that democracy and parliamentaryism really cost a lot (king Alexander when he abolished the National Assembly, parliament cost a lot, as well as all other dictators), I will edit my earlier proposal. Instead of 30 seconds, I ask that participation in the debate of the MPs be 20 seconds each.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11046	You can't edit the proposals, you can only make two proposals and you did it by the same article. If the intention of the MPs is to bring disorder into the National Assembly's sessions at any cost and to apply rigorous measures to prove that, as a composition of the National Assembly, we are incapable of tolerance, I must inform you that in that intention, whoever has it, you have a sharp opponent in me. There will be tolerance in this assembly, and there will be no incidents, and there will be no insult to the MPs on any basis. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Milka Marinković and the People's Messenger Tomic, and the People's Messenger Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11047	Please, quiet, I want to talk. The previous speaker, Mr. Seselj, is one of the 23 in a row that broke Article 101 of point 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with the aim of making this assembly a circus and showing the people that DOS cannot rule, cannot rule MPs, cannot rule the state, which of course is not true, because everything is well known to the people. The one who couldn't rule this country is the SRS and the SPS. But since we don't want to be dragged into this circus, because we're not circus people, we're responsible people who got the trust of 70% of the people of this country, I'm asking that order be seduced in the Assembly, that unidentified objects be identified when they enter the O.R. or that a warning be given to each and every one of them. And that the National Assembly now declares itself to Mr. Seselj because the president of the parliamentary group called him a junkie. Not to talk about nonsense like "small emergency", "great emergency", "mads", "aliens", "marsovites", that's probably the termology in which only radicals get along, but it has to be prevented here urgently. [[Applause to DOS MPs]] [[The helmet from the scene is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11048	I've seen you, but there were three other MPs in the Rules of Procedure before you asked for a replica. It's 17.01 right now, we've finished the agenda number 7, we've got two and a half hours to do. So we have time for all the replicas, for all the use of the Rules of Procedure, for everything we wanted to say, and we didn't have a time. I ask the People's Messenger (I mean Seselj) to be patient and to sit in the seat of Parliament. You'll be entitled to the replica when you get your turn. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Stanko Kovacevic and MP Slobodan Pavlovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11049	Madam Chairman, you, when you saw me holding the Rules of Procedure in my hand and that I wanted to apply for the Rules of Procedure, you made a threat and said that those who want the Rules of Procedure to seek to make a mess here in the assembly would have an opponent in you. That's what you said. And I'm telling you, dear Comićka, when we were together as members of the Democratic Party, I wasn't afraid of such threats, nor am I today afraid of threats in your position as chairman of this assembly. I propose to the Assembly, because the chairman insists on not applying members of the Rules of Procedure for seducing order, to give her a warning about it, while at the same time giving Mr Seselj a warning from the Assembly, because the chairman missed it, because of the insult of the parliamentary group and the head of the DOS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11050	The statement of the warning and the order of the session of the National Assembly shall be done by the chairman. The order at the National Assembly cannot be held without the co-operation of all MPs. We can look at the stenogram, it didn't occur to me to make threats and stand up to someone who's looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. I objected to the intention of creating a riot at the National Assembly session and remain a strong opponent of disorder and uncultural communication and intolerant atmosphere at the National Assembly sessions. People’s MPs, whom you all know well that have spoken for the congregation speaker what they have said, should take care of their own obligations to the Rules of Procedure. We have a choice. Either we try all together to establish tolerance and participate together in creating cultural communication or we end up expressing a warning. Therefore, the intervention of MP Stanko Kovacevic can only be carried out by voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure and treating it as a warning to the chairman. For the congregation cannot make a warning, it is done by the chairmanship, and by the messengers of the people, and by anyone who threatens the law, the peace, the dignity of this congregation. I can't agree with you anymore, and I can't participate with you anymore in what's an emotional attitude when words are said for this pay phone, but I have an obligation for you all to listen here. So, I put to the vote the motion of MP Stanko Kovacevic to violate the Rules of Procedure by the chairman. Please plead. For 30, against 68 abstentions, 19 did not vote 42, out of 159 MPs. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slobodan Pavlovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11051	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, I have never reported to the Rules of Procedure as an SPS MP before. That thing in our MP group is doing someone else. I now appear as the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. You have written notice of the absence of Professor Banet Ivković at today's session. My announcement came much earlier, and it was intended to make it known to all colleagues, MPs, that the point to discuss, point 8 - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of Objects in our Republic has an exceptional importance for urban space, for urban order, for construction. I was going to suggest not to accept a proposal from a DOS colleague to shorten the time of debate on this important law. Mr. Seselj, head of the SRS parliamentary group, also followed the proposal that the debate lasts for 30 seconds, which I also considered inappropriate. I don't want to get into all this stuff that happened in different relationships afterwards. I propose that the debate on the law under point 8 be conducted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that it be 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11052	If they read the Rules of Procedure a little bit, we'd all find it easier. Please return to your seat. Think of Slobodan Pavlovic. ) On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposals for a reduction of time have been made, and these proposals will be voted on. Suggestions to be as it is in the Rules of Procedure mean abuse, if the MP appears in the Rules of Procedure, on that matter. There is a word from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica to the presentation of MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11053	If that's the only basis for me to get my word, I'd ask my fellow MPs to get back to what our job is. I ask the Assembly that, despite Mrs Marinkovic's request, it does not vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, in a situation where Mr Seselj was rude to me. We have a duty to take care of hundreds of thousands of victims of politics whose protagonist was that man, and to unprotect each other, although sometimes we need collegiate. So, please, if we can get back to work. I apologize if I was one of the inspirers of this, which is a half-hour waste of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11054	National MP Milka Marinkovic has been misread. There's a word from MP Milka Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11055	I insist on voting on my proposal, because I absolutely do not defend Mr. Jovanovic, he is quite able to defend himself without me. I defend the dignity of this assembly, my own dignity, and all MPs, who are MPs, not circuses, and therefore ask to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11056	Just to ask MP Milka Marinkovic - the motion for a vote was whether the Rules of Procedure had been broken. I remind the People's MPs that the National Assembly cannot make its decisions to make warnings to other MPs. The chairman of the National Assembly shall also make the decision. We can vote that the Rules of Procedure have been broken and, since the chairman of the Rules of Procedure has been put to the vote twice, we have voted twice, but here, we are voting for the third time - whether the chairman has violated the Rules of Procedure and has not applied a member. I remind the National Assembly that it cannot vote whether an MP has broken the Rules of Procedure, but whether or not the chairman has applied the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, I am voting against the violation of the Rules of Procedure. For 61, against 10, the two abstentions, did not vote 98, out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has concluded that by not saying a warning, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have not been broken. People's MP Vojislav Seselj is looking for a replica. What's the basis of the replica? (Employee Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I can only answer from the pay phone.) Then you have no basis for replication. (Employer Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Milka spoke twice about me. You can see that you can't have a pay phone. Now let's talk about what Milka did. Just tell me the basis for the replica, the presentation of which MP? (Employer Vojislav Seselj, from the place: On Milka's exhibition twice and Chad's one exhibition. () What was offensive, incorrectly mentioned in that presentation? You have to tell me the basis for the replica. (Emissary Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Do you give me your word? Not if you don't tell me the basis for the replica. We're going to vote. (Employer Vojislav Seselj asks for a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11057	You keep making a circus out of this congregation. First, twice you won't let me use the right to replicate Milka Marinkovic, and then you give Cedomir Jovanovic a replica on the line. I've just replicated him, and you're giving him a replica on the line. It's article 96, it's about you. I insist that you allow me to take advantage of my right to a replica or to make a record that I am the only one here who has the right to a replica and when business conditions are met. While I'm here, will you comment on my advertising, or are you waiting for me to leave?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11058	You didn't have a basis for the replica, I'm staying with that claim, because all you're saying is that some MPs have said something. It is not clearly defined what is the basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11059	They didn't say anything, they were talking about me. Cedomir Jovanovic said it was my fault for some victims, and Milka, what Milka has brought all of this here into these microphones, no one is able to repeat it alive.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11060	It's only then that you don't have a basis for replication, if you don't know what she said.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11061	I have a basis for replica, because she was talking about me, and she, first of all, was insultingly expressing herself about me, and secondly, in a false way, she interpreted some of my words from this pay phone. That thing about circuses, it doesn't matter, that's what he can say. Are you giving me the right to a replica now?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11062	I ask the MP not to communicate with the MPs from the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11063	Did I now convince you that I have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11064	You're not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11065	Am I to blame for any of the victims?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11066	That's what you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11067	And do I have the right to share my knowledge of the victims here?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11068	Then when a session of the National Assembly is a part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11069	And did Cedomir Jovanovic, according to this agenda, say that I was responsible for some victims?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11070	There's no mention of your name.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11071	Since the name is not mentioned, don't make it up here now. How come there's no name mentioned?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11072	Anyway, you don't have a basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11073	Here, I just called to plead guilty. It is my fault for certain victims, and Cedomir Jovanovic is my main victim. It's my fault Cedomir Jovanovic has been a student for 11 years and he doesn't know anything. It's my fault, I admit it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11074	I ask the MP not to make any claims concerning the private life of other persons. Indeed, you yourself know that it is for a reminder and that it is a matter of a kind of hypocrisy to ever report to the Rules of Procedure again, if you make claims concerning the private life of other persons. I would like to put to the vote the draft MP Aleksandr Radosavljevic on the length of the debate in principle on the 8th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction of Objects. The proposal is that the debate lasts five minutes. I ask the messengers to plead. For 110, against 52, the abstention of three, did not vote 8 out of 173 MPs. With this, we have decided that the debate lasts five minutes. You have received the bill of law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Zivko Selaković, Slobodan Janjic, Dragan Čolić, Goran Cvetanović, Bozidar Vujić, Dragoljub Stamenković, Lazar Marjanski, Vitomir Plužarevic, Stevan Kesejić, Branislav Blažić, Petar Jojic, Aleksandar Vučić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Miroljub Veljković, Srboljub Živanovic, Bozidar Vučurović, Rajko Baralić, Hranislav Perić, Milorad Mirčić, Veroljub Arsic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Ljubomir Kragović, Natasa Jovanovic, Radojko Petrić and Slobodan Pavlović. You have received reports from the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and the Legislative Committee and have received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He has the word Minister Dragoslav Šumarac.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11075	Dear Madam Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the DOS promises was to stop lawless construction, or unplanned construction. There is almost no need to spend words on an explanation -- why lawless construction is one of the most expensive constructions, primarily for investors. Objects built without a building permit cannot be registered, that means they can't be sold legally, they can't be inherited. On the other hand, for society, it's a more expensive kind of construction, first of all, that such investors don't pay for neither utility, nor infrastructure, nor order city building land, that I don't talk about how much damage space is done, and as you know, we inherited the space. That's what we have, what we inherited, and what we have to pass on to our descendants. In the last ten years, everything in this country has been frozen, especially economic activities, and the only thing that has flourished with the previous government, it has been an illegal construction. It is estimated that there are between 700,000 and a million illegally built objects in our country. The symbol of illegal construction is those two little houses, if you go from Batajnica, then over Brank's bridge, and then you see them on that soliter, on the soliter here, which is visible from Brank's bridge. In addition, the old Zemuna core, the surroundings of the Duke of Michael Street, were attacked by national parks - Kopalnik, Zlatibor, Tara, park and forest on Stararari, almost gone, without talking about Kaludjerica and other settlements, not only in Belgrade, but also in other cities, in Novi Sad, Kralje, Čačka, Kragujevac, etc. Therefore, amendments to the Law on the Construction of Objects are proposed, where we propose criminal penalties for entrepreneurs, i.e. a responsible person and a legal person who is an investor of the facility, or which builds an object without a building permit, so an entrepreneur or a responsible person who builds an object without a building permit and we propose a prison sentence for up to one year. Then for the investor, i.e. the responsible person in the legal person who is the investor, who is building a facility without a building permit and we propose a prison sentence of up to three years. Then for a natural person or a responsible person in a legal person who connects the facility, which was built, normally without a building permit, to the infrastructure, or to the power grid, to the plumbing and sewerage, and also up to three years in prison. I only note that this solution has already entered the Law on building buildings in Montenegro. In addition, fines in the law have been increased, i.e. they are adjusted to fines, i.e. fines provided for by the Law on Infringements and Commercial Infringements. There are already prescribed criminal penalties for management in Criminal Law. Namely, if the representatives of the administration, or the competent authorities, do not issue a building permit to a citizen who has the right to do so, and it is known by the Law of Planning that 30 days for the issue of an urban permit and 15 days for issuing a building permit, the prison sentence is threatened for up to five years. In this way, we believe that illegal construction will be stopped and in this way we want to draw the line and say that from the moment the law enters into force that no one will ever build without a building permit, that is, no one will build illegal buildings. So the law isn't retroactive and it's not rematchistic. What are we going to do about the objects that have already been built? We're a poor country and the most expensive would be to tear down all these objects, so make plans and plan them out. We've already said, on several levels, that there are actually three kinds of these objects. It is those who can adapt to the plans and who can obtain a building permit, then those who must first and foremost comply with the planning documents, that is to make some of their reconstructions, and the third ones are objects that are unfortunately in some important directions, in infrastructure directions such as the pipelines, then on the roads and they must, unfortunately, be destroyed. So that we don't get into a situation just to punish ourselves we're together with the city authorities from Novi Sad, and Mrs. Comic knows that, we've launched one action, the city building office and the urban office. They built an office where all the papers needed to issue a building permit would be issued in one place. Namely, the parties do not have to go from counter to counter to all public utility companies, but there will be representatives in that one place and there is already a month since the office came to life. We hope this is how the authorisation will be updated. This was introduced earlier in Subotica, and now this, along with the city authorities from Belgrade, will also be introduced to Belgrade. In the end, I would like to say that it may seem that this law is too restrictive, perhaps appropriate to some totalitarian society, but we hope that no one will build without a building permit in the future and that no one will come under the influence of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11076	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11077	The legislator did not want to go deeper into the core of the problem and ask for a variant to solve the problem, not only the cruel and cruel sanctions punish those who, by solving their life issue of roof over their heads, had to resort to construction primarily of residential buildings and private houses. What's the problem, what's the fundamental problem that this law is not able to elaborate? Why did the construction of nearly a million illegal buildings in Serbia take place? Who's to blame? It's the state's fault, because the state didn't in time determine payments for individual housing, payments for business, industrial and other construction, and then people had to manage, as anyone knew and knew. A huge number of municipalities were assigned to the citizens by construction plots, and once it was the main source of corruption. It was supposed to have a strong connection in the municipality or well-oiled the money of a municipal official, and then get the first building plot, the plot, and then the roads go to those who gave urban conditions, and then the building permit, and then the technical reception, etc. I'm not saying that all the people who did it are criminalized. It's certainly not all of them, but there were a large number of people who were prone to criminal acts prone to bribery. People, above all, have raised up on their own land and this is always less of a problem for the country than it is when it rises on a foreign land and on a country. To pass a serious law on building buildings, it is necessary first to change Serbia's constitution. According to the Serbian Constitution, the city's building land is only in state and social property. It must be possible for city building land to be either in state or private property and all those who legally raised family houses on city building land to enable the purchase of wages, in order to enable the sale of construction plots, without actually being assigned to 99 years, as was once the case and then to follow the fate of a built building. Even today, the owner of the house is not the owner of the town's salary, but only the house and he uses the salary while his house is whole. As soon as the house is broken down, it's not his place anymore, and he has to go through the same procedure from the beginning, urban and construction permits and everything else, like he's just been assigned a paycheck. If the government were serious about solving this problem, it would start with the Constitution, then prescribe obligations to local self-government units as much as they have to make the citizens available for individual housing, a proportional number of residents in the municipality, and a proportional degree of resolution of the housing problem, because our country will not be able for long to mass-building collective accommodations, multiple housing buildings. A small private who dares to get into it and if he enters, he builds a smaller number of apartments. You can no longer find someone to build a building with 100 apartments and comfortable, large apartments, etc. It's a state interest to encourage individual housing. The additional reason is also a huge number of refugees in Serbia who remain here, who have nowhere to go and have no settled housing issue. Wherever the state intervened, we saw it in Zemun, Temerino, and in some other places in Vojvodina, giving advantage to refugees and there they solved their own housing problems. The point should be to solve citizens' problems, not to impose new commitments, even taking them to prison. That's the nonsense of this law. Secondly, our urban plans are long out of date. They're uninnovated, they're not arranged, they're not registered properly, they're not registered on the ground, you don't have any urban plans that match the state of the field. Not only about illegal objects that have changed what is written in the urban plan, which has been drawn, but also those objects that have been built completely legally. The executive authorities, first of all...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11078	Five minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11079	I'll continue for the next five minutes, if you don't mind. Local authorities' executive bodies, to the construction ministry, when allowing certain facilities to be raised, did not make sure that they responded immediately to the competent urban authority, to inform him, to agree with him to change the urban plan in that part: 90% of the apartments in New Belgrade were not included in land books. Therefore, from the point of view of traditional legal principles, it is not legally possible to prove ownership in the way in which it is primarily determined. The property must be specifically determined on the basis of purchase contracts, based on other evidence, even sometimes with two witnesses, if it can't be otherwise. The only thing for a court is absolutely relevant what it says in land books. It's absolute proof of property ownership. Our land books are a mess. You started cleaning fish from the tail, and you need a head, that's the problem. Stop your tail, move away from your head, engage a team of experts who will have a complete problem absorbing, and on the basis of the whole new building law. That's what you'd have to do. Secondly, the current law on building buildings did not have criminal and legal sanctions. The mind states, the enlightened states, the civilized states, the states where the highest principle of rule of law is, make sure that all crimes are prescribed only by one law, by the Criminal Code, that complete criminal law is codified. Our country, unfortunately, is an example in the opposite sense. We already have 15 federal and about 30 republican laws that contain criminal and legal objects. You're adding another one. He's been waiting a few years for a new criminal code at the Federal Justice Department. There is no good will, nor was it before to be adopted, and Petar Jojic completed the final version of the law while he was a minister, and even before the authorities had no good will to bring it to the Federal Assembly, and even the current authorities have no good will to do so. Although both federal units agreed with the constitutional decisions of their congregations that the entire area of criminal legislation, in terms of norming and sanctioning, would be transferred to federal power, to the Federation. That is why it is contrary to the basic principle of rule of law that you here introduce criminal and legal provisions and order a three-year sentence if someone illegally built a facility. That's terrible. You don't get into whether someone's picked up on their land or on someone else's land. So, there's got to be some distinction to be made. It's not the same when a man raises an object on his land and on another man's land. It's not the same when it's already in existence and it's raising a whole new object. You don't go into details at all. Why? You were in a hurry with this law. What made you go through this urgent procedure with this law and it was reckless? We Serbian radicals ask that this law be serious, no matter what authority and which assembly majority vote it, that it be a serious law that will give legal certainty to citizens, rather than destroying their legal security. There will be cases like this, and fortunately you did not foresee the retroactive validity of the criminal-law provisions of this law, and I am truly surprised that it did not occur to you. We'll see, when the amendments come, we'll see about that. Now we're discussing a bill. I'm honestly surprised that it didn't occur to you, too, so that you retroactively punish 900,000 people for building them illegally. What does that mean? What it means to create an artificial situation where someone already has a building facility, but no one knows, the municipality doesn't know, the urbanists don't know, the communal inspections don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11080	Ten minutes and twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11081	Am I still entitled to five minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11082	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11083	No one knows about that facility, for example. An object built this year, here, now 15 days ago. Now you're passing a law like this and after three months someone comes, knocks on the door and says, "You built an illegal facility, you have to pay the fine or go to jail." You're filing a criminal report. How will he prove in court that the facility was built before July 10th or built on July 15th? What will the one who started the facility do, and now the law is cutting it off, it's not finished. For example, he built a house up to the roof and now there's no money, he's looking for the opportunity to make money, to manage it, etc., because these houses are mostly built by poor people, especially in suburban settlements. What now in that case? There's got to be a basic distinction here. Whether a man is building on his own land or on a foreign land and there is a diametric difference. Then, whether building your facility endangers any public well-being or not. If it does not endanger the plumbing, sewerage, traffic, etc., then the degree of social danger from illegal construction is smaller than where someone built a house or a water pool or a tank in the middle of a water installation, etc. Or maybe he's building somewhere by the sewer collector, so he's blocking the entrance to that collector. There's got to be a difference here. You must first enable all those who have built illegal buildings, if that construction does not directly endanger any social interest, to register, or legalise, these facilities, and then to pass a law that would more severely sanction illegal construction in the future, but that the authorities of the local authorities are previously obliged to enable citizens to legally acquire building parcels to the extent that the demand for these parcels exists. I know, when I was president of the municipality, we were calling for competitions and 1,000 people appeared in these competitions, 6,000 construction plots were assigned, 6,000 people were raising their homes, and that's the way to solve the housing crisis. You vice versa, you'd stop people from getting along. It's worth more, in terms of the economy of agriculture, than a hectare of land under the wheat. When you sow a hectare of land under wheat, you can count on a profit of 1,000 marks on average. I hope you make that much money, that might be an exaggeration. It's that someone can achieve that much, and that's kind of maximum. More with six acres paid around the house in agricultural terms, in terms of the economics of agricultural production than with the price of hectares under the wheat. That is for those who are angry at the threat of fertile fields, while houses are built. Yes, but the house is about an ar of pay, and the rest is a garden. In these gardens there is much more productive agricultural production than in the bare fields where hundreds of hectares stretch across the horizon. That's not what you had in mind. We Serbian radicals want this country to have good laws, that Serbia really has good laws, that these laws are exemplary for the surrounding countries, and not that such horns are passed, without any rights, without any order, without any meaning, without any concept. This is one of the legal projects you submitted to the National Assembly without any concept behind it other than your desire to punish. When you talk about those two houses on Branko's street, there is a criminal responsibility for Nebojsa Covic to bring. In his day, it started to build. He was then the president of the Belgrade Assembly. At the time of Neboja Covic, the most illegal facilities were built in Belgrade. Now you want to get out of the sky and into the ribs so you can change politics by 180%. You can't do that. (President: 15.15 minutes). This is something about the essential existential interests of a vast number of citizens of our country. In all municipalities, it must not be cut so easily, it must not be broken over its knees. Serious people with teamwork have to come up with a smart legislative project that will cover both spheres of ownership and the sphere of entry into land books, the issue of urban, construction and other permits. Only in that case can the people be satisfied with the law. With this law, Serbian citizens will be deeply dissatisfied, if, God forbid, adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11084	Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Slobodan Pavlovic, as a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11085	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has sent the National Assembly a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of Objects. Due to the reasons given in this bill and the need for its amendments and additions, let me just remind myself that the existing Law on the Construction of Objects, which are proposed to amend and supplement it, was adopted, as you saw from the Explanation of 26 October 1995 and that the amendments and additions to this law were made in May 1996 and half of April 1997. This law, which is now in force, defines all the important issues and all the important aspects of building objects in our Republic. I'll just mention some. The construction technical and technological conditions for previous works in the construction of buildings have been very precisely defined. Secondly, a complete abstract is defined to produce technical documentation for building objects. Thirdly, the authority to issue a building permit for the construction of buildings has been defined. Fourthly, the area of construction has been defined, including, above all, the carrying out of works and professional supervision of the performance of works. Fifthly, it is defined the degree of the works, and that is: whoever performs the dues of the works, when and how works are done in the construction of the buildings. The sixth, the powers to design and manage buildings have been defined. Seven, all aspects of the issue of the applicable authorisation have been defined. I'm also saying this for Mr. Seselj's sake, because I don't know if his house has a valid license. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Yes. That's not what you said, but now we've heard he's got a useful license. It also means publishing, control, trial work and construction of assembly facilities. Eight, it's been defined to tear down objects that aren't in good shape. This is important because of Article 43 of the proposed law. The power to adopt sub-legislative acts has also been defined - who has the right to propose and who adopts a sub-legislative act in the area of building facilities. The supervision of law enforcement has also been defined, which is also important. Now, I'm particularly underlining -- part 12 of the Law on the Explosion of Objects defines criminal provisions. I especially stress this, because the full law has 66 members. The part relating to criminal provisions has six members. I'm saying this because now I'm going to ask one question - what is now proposed by changes and additions? It is immediately possible to see the daizmanes and supplements, which are proposed by this law, in fact, not one important part of the Law on the Construction of Objects, except for the illegal construction, although I know it, I know it and Minister Šumarac, as well as Mr Djalović, the entire Ministry of Construction of Objects, there were reasons to go on more serious amendments and additions to the Law on which it is concerned. In that part, I agree with Mr. Seselj's remark that it was necessary (not understood). It is explained that it is proposed in Articles 3 to 9 only to increase the fines from 3 to 20 times or from 300 to 2,000%. This is explained by the fact that it is a alignment with the Law on Infringements, that is, the Law on Economic Crimes. Although that's the case, you'll agree, it's a lot, brother, and it's from the promoter. Secondly, Article 2 introduces new criminal-legal norms in order to prevent illegal construction, as the existing norms did not produce adequate results, as explained. Therefore, Article 52 provides for criminal and legal norms and prison sentences of 1-3 years for contractors on buildings without a building permit, and Article 43a prohibits the inclusion of construction facilities without a building permit to the municipal infrastructure. Article 52b provides, for those who make accession, whether it is a legal or a natural person, also a prison sentence of up to three years. So it's obvious that the essence of the story is about repression, new punishments and criminal prison standards for the offender. Otherwise, the question can be asked whether it will really be this way or these measures that will prevent illegal construction. And you know, and I know, and most of the people here, and the public knows it won't be possible. Why? Because it is not only non-compliance and non-compliance with existing rules, but because there are a large number of reasons for the illegal construction and its creation. We can argue whether there are 300,000, 1,000, 1,000 or whatever, but it's illegal construction and it has to be treated that way. It also has a socio-economic character, has a urban and construction aspect, has a socio-economic aspect. I must say immediately that even the previous government, in which I have beenparticipating, partly and working in the ministry, has failed to provide answers to those basic issues that produce illegal construction. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 10 of them, and these are: the lack of adequate and current urban plans for their construction; unresolved property-legal relations for individual and other upgrades; the long-term procedure of obtaining prescribed urban and technical documentation; the amount of investment needed in municipal building land equipment; the inability to pay compensation for the established land for construction, credit or delayed payment; this is very important and for identifying where the underlying problems are and where they will be, and this is absolutely inefficient work of local self-government on these jobs and inspections. The issue of illegal construction, location and control is all a pair of egelence and jurisdiction of local self-government, except that the Ministry of Construction is responsible for those locations that are defined as the authority of the state by the Law on the Planning of Space. These are some of those mentioned by Minister Šumarac - the old core of Zemuna, Tara, Kopalnik, Stara Planina etc. That's what the Department of Construction does. The coordination of public and other municipal enterprises in the construction and integration of primary municipal infrastructure is also poor, which is why this measure is proposed in Article 43. Then, the lack of funds to refinance geodetic recording of regulations and other activities related to the destruction of illegal construction facilities, so those objects that can't be legalised in any variants; let's not lose sight of one very important fact, which can be difficult, ugly and sad, but it's true, and that's that a large number of displaced, large number of displaced, large number of refugees who have virtually no solution to the housing issue, and among other things, largely contributes and unfair construction, as the predecessor said. There is something that is very important and not potent, which is not implementing the Law on Legalisation, which was adopted by the National Assembly in late 1997. This law is important because it cannot be separated from what is proposed by amendments and additions to the law on building objects, because just by adopting this law it was meant to be replaced and allowed to legalise all those objects that can be legalised, for which there is a basis in urban plans, without disturbing order in space and not on major traffic facilities, on primary infrastructure. Pass me the third five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11086	All right, Mr. Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11087	Let's get this over with, and I won't answer again. So that's something that you can't possibly leave aside from the Ministry of Urbanism and Building, the Government and others, that thing should be kept in mind. This law is very important and the promoters know it. It is a synthesis of resolutions and rules that cover the entire process of building these buildings and are systematically contained in the latest laws that treat urban planning, spatial planning, construction law, the Law on the Use of City Building Land, on the right to join and build primary and secondary buildings. Of course, it relies on the Law on municipal activities, where public functions are defined in the field of communication, water supply, electricity facilities, etc. The question arises, and that is what I said on the board, it is nothing new, such a proposal can be asked, in addition to these things that I was talking about, the question of constitutionality. The Legislative Committee has accepted, as well as the parent board on urbanism, this proposal, but it remains open. Then, his founding and his legality tied up, if he can, and apparently in these previous ones, they mentioned, and I also know that in 15 other special laws, criminal-legal norms were defined. We also took that into account on the parent committee. So, since there are already 15 previous laws, but is it good and is it founded, of course, it's certainly a question mark. Of course, the question of celery, content and norms defined in the proposed text. This law can ask questions, what about the facilities that have been completed and moved, and they haven't solved all this that we're talking about now, what about the facilities that are finished, and they're not connected to the municipal infrastructure, what about the buildings that are now being built, so they've reached the roof or ground floor. How will it be defined essentially by the law as said by the predecessor, whether it will be broken or even a term must have. So, Mr. Seselj, who spoke before me, he was a predecessor. I didn't want to mention you, not to give you the right to a replica. So to conclude, neither I nor the SPS parliamentary group, we're not for urban chaos, we're for urban order. We're not for illegal, we're for legal, legal and legal construction. We are not in favour of disrupting the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia as the most significant act brought into this area after World War II. And in which all aspects of our development and construction are defined, which must be kept and preserved, that is something we must leave behind. If we destroy it, then really everything else will remain a story. Since I have six amendments to this law myself, and there are other amendments, and we will discuss the members individually at that stage. If this law is adopted like this and is primarily repressive, and not preventive, it will cause great repercussions. Then, of course, it remains accountable to the parliamentary majority and to those who propose this law. We on our side have put in the amendment's proposals. We tried to emulate it, fix it and bring about a possible realization. Fourteen minutes and 38 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11088	I thank Mr. Pavlovic. I saw you looking for a word as head of the parliamentary group, but before that, SRS MP Cvetanovic asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11089	I would ask the chairman to establish the quorum according to Article 93, because it is both visual and electronic and see for yourself that the quorum is not present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-10-0.u11090	I must conclude that even at first sight the opposition of MP Cvetanovic is clear and electronic system and counting control will confirm that the quorum really does not exist. I'm taking a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please insert your identification cards to see if we have a quorum. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since the monitor shows we don't have a quorum, but I don't think some MPs have inserted their identification cards, I'm asking these MPs to identify themselves. I ask the Assembly to approach the count of MPs. [[They're getting him out of the bench, counting.]] To determine if we have a quorum. I find that by counting the service it is determined that 120 MPs are sitting in the hall. So we don't have a quorum. I'm taking a five-minute break.
