ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6505	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since it's a health law, and since I performed twice yesterday, and I had duties as a minister, I had to go to another place. In the meantime, some things happened that came out of the frame of normal. As a man, as a minister and as a person in charge of health affairs, let me say a few words. In 1994, I was attacked by the President of the Radical Party, Mr Seselj, at the very beginning, as an MP in the Federal Assembly....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6506	Mr Joksimovicu, we are now in discussion, I will tell you, we are now in the debate in particular, we are now considering amendments. I would ask you to take the right to the final word you have at the end of the review of the amendment, to what you...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6507	I'm sorry, I didn't think anyone else would talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6508	No, we have amendments. When this debate is over, you will have the right to the final word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6509	I'm sorry, I thought that was over.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6510	Thank you. If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 37, against 101, the two abstentions, did not vote 16, a total of 156 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government, the Health and Family Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, despite the fact that this bill resembles a bill that has already been passed, which applies only to other contributions, I must comment on Article 1. The bill and that, eventually, I'm trying to convince you to adopt the amendment that I've proposed, because I think it's not a better solution, but a solution that could bring some revenue into that fund. Namely, the promoter admitted in the light of the law that these amendments and amendments of the law create conditions for correction (reduction of the contribution rate for health insurance). What does that mean? This means that Article 1 provides that, on the basis of such an increased contribution base, revenue is to be increased in the Health Insurance Fund, i.e. more economic interventions for this fund. Then the legislator tells us that, given that there has been an increase in income, conditions are being created to reduce rates, but this bill does not reduce those rates. We are left to ask the proposals, if he has already noticed, if he has calculated on some small model and saw that there will be greater isolation, higher incomes and video that rates can be reduced, why he did not immediately suggest a reduction in the rate, so that Serbian citizens understand they are dealing with one serious authority. On the one hand, the promoter convinces us that we will have increased profits, that we will live better, that wages, people's words, will be bigger, that the fund will be much more fuller, and even says that the fund will be fuller than it should be and that conditions are being created to reduce the rate, but not a more subtle donkey, it is not known when and whether the rates of contributions will be reduced at all. At the same time, the promoter says these bases will be set out in Article 1. The proposal for this law, which it unfounded, unequivocally wrongly calls the basics of Article 108b of the Statute 2, although this law has only 13 members, will be in line with the movement of the average monthly net earnings per employed in the Republic, in February-April 2001, according to the published data of the Republic's statistical authority. What does that mean? This means that we really don't know, June 1st, when this law comes into force, or when those June salaries arrive, we don't even know how much money the employer will have, which means to us who receive the wages, go on the basis of this bill. I suggested about 50% of the base on which these contributions will be calculated, because that's what's real and what our economy right now can do for any contributions, taxes, it can set out. We can write here that we will single out thousands and thousands of dinars, there is no money in the economy, that money is not created in the economy, it is not created for wages, let alone for the increased contributions and obligations of the employer and employees to the state. No matter how much this is a alignment with the budget that's already been adopted, I'm obliged to let you know by who knows which way, as long as these laws are on the agenda, I warn you that when someone doesn't, you can't charge them. I am convinced that our economy, right now under your authority, and yet none of you have dared to organize production, no money, does not generate this income, and will not be able to pay this kind of projected contribution that this law requires of employers. (President: Time. ) This problem was faced by earlier authorities, at a time when more was produced, but the market was very tight, and yet prices on the domestic market were not as high as they are now under your control. We had to make various bill proposals that for certain industries, especially threatened and especially those where low personal incomes are, we assume that the government can free them even up to 50% of the bill's intended rates and the basis for contributions. Please think about it and I suggest you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6512	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6513	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we spoke well of all that could be said on the basis of facts and arguments on these grounds. I think that at the agenda point, where we were dealing with amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, we defined what the basis is, what it does, and, among other things, we pointed to the revaluations and changes that occurred in the meantime. So the proposed amendment defines basics which would be less than those currently in existence. It may be a relief for the employer, but it certainly would not have contributed to those who thus exercise their rights. So we need to respect the facts, reality. No one in this society thinks it's easy in itself to carry out an existing reform that we insist on, but obviously we could get back into the debate we had last week. These are the basics that are calculative, but they are very precise in that sense defined, primarily through a procedure that occurs in such a base. Please, if we can, speed up our debate, so we can discuss those things that we haven't talked about in this House so far. We've said everything about these basics, in a situation where we've been dealing with pension and disability insurance. I think it is clear that we will not give up our policy, just as there is not much argument in the criticisms that we are exposed to, and above all, I think of those who describe the current situation in the economy. Salaries have been increased. True, this followed the rise in prices, but not as a consequence of the poor policy we are having, but, above all, as a result of the correction of those depressed values that have been the result, again, of the government's efforts to maintain such a form of social policy, such a balance in society. It wasn't a good policy, and it's obvious that something like that has to change, because in itself it's not forever. We've raised the price of electricity, but the price of electricity is no higher than the price that is characteristic of that type of product in our environment. So it's all part of a policy of alignment with our needs, but also of harmonising with the needs of manufacturers. Please, if we can, speed up this debate and move on to the next item of the agenda. We've told you everything about this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6514	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 54, against 116, there were no abstentions, no four votes, a total of 174 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. The Government, the Health and Family Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6515	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I have proposed with my amendment that the minimum basis for paying taxes and contributions be reduced by 30%. Not because I think health care has enough money, but I think that health care needs a lot of money, but I think taxpayers and contributions from the lowest bases aren't the ones that are going to cure health care. Health care should collect the main revenues from those who receive full personal income and pay their contributions as personal incomes are paid. Why did I suggest 30%? I've calculated, calculated, and I've come to the conclusion that a 30% reduction brings tax and contribution to the current level. So, with these lowest tax bases and contributions, employers will be charged with more than 30%, and those who have a fixed amount for personal incomes will have to cut wages by 30%. One simple example. If the employer has a worker who has an eighth degree of professional training and has set aside for labour costs of 12,000, he will pay his contributions under the current conditions of 6,000. Or, to be simple, it would be clearer for ordinary people. If he gives the worker 12,000 and says "friend," go pay the contribution and keep the rest, he will pay 6,000 contributions, and 6,000 will remain. In the newly proposed bases, as Mr Matkovic said, I would like to assume that the same rates of taxes and contributions remain on the basis of 12,700 dinars for the eighth degree of professional preparation, at the current rates of taxes and contributions, are about 8,000 is what you have to do in the name of taxes and contributions to single out. So, if the employer has the same 12,000, he'll have to pay 8,000 taxes and contributions from June 1st, and 4,000 to keep the workers' salary. If we simulate this on a larger company that has 5,000 workers and whose average average is the medium professional preparer, if the management provides 4,000 dinars, and these are enterprises that are in difficult conditions, the company will under the current conditions 2,000 to give to the worker, and 2,000 will pay the tax. In the new conditions, when 5,500 is the basis for medium preparation, it will pay 3,000 taxes and will remain 1,000 for the worker. Even more difficult are companies that have to pay minimum wages. He will give 1,800 to the worker as a salary, and if he has a mid-term, he will pay 4,000 contributions, and if he has an eighth degree he will pay 8,000 contributions. However, apart from counting carefully on myself, I listened very carefully to the head of the ruling party's parliamentary group, counting that he was the smartest as soon as the head of the ruling party's parliamentary group, that he had experts behind him, that he had powerful machines, and when I heard him say - Mr. President, the respected presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal of MP Vukic, that he would reduce the base by 50%, he said - by accepting this amendment we would reduce workers' earnings by 50%. So we can't support this amendment to cut the base by 50%, because that would be a reduction in the income of workers by 50%. I got confused, it made me hesitate, I'm counting on the amendment to cut workers' wages. However, when I read that taxes and contributions must be paid on condition that no pay is paid, then I was extremely confused. I was thinking of withdrawing the amendment, however, when I read it, too, and I heard it, and then I compared it, the head of the DOS parliamentary group Mr. Ceda Jovanovic says -- Mr. President, the Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree that we can't understand each other, but I really don't know how to explain to you what that gross salary is anymore. How can I explain to you what these 3,000 dinars are, so he says, that salary, or the base that we're talking about here today, makes 3,000 dinars and that these 3,000 dinars you're talking about aren't some new 3,000 dinars, which the employer is going to pay at already 3,000 how much the worker makes. It is all in the framework of these 3,000 dinars, wages, regression, warm meal, contributions and all that is 3,000. When I heard this, I decided to withdraw the amendment, because I realized that my digitron was incorrect, that Mrs. Matkovic didn't understand enough of that problem, because I think the head of the parliamentary group has experts behind it, that it has powerful machines, that the best bills, and that my wish was to do so, and that it will be so, as of June 1st, it will be those who pay the salary and those who receive the salary. Thank you. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6516	I find the amendment has been withdrawn. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government, the Health and Family Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6517	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit that Mr Jovanovic is right this time, because there is no reason behind this speaker, either by the MPs of the opposition and us members of the Serbian Radical Party, as well as the occasional MPs from the DOS who came out for this pay phone, has not been mentioned by the minority on this legislative project and on the previous two, who are treating the contributions, in fact, based on contributions in the same way. However, regardless of what the maltenes are all said, what only Mr. Jovanovic is wrong, it is that they did not come to their senses. All MPs of the opposition, especially us MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, are also in the debate in principle, as well as the amendments in these three legislative projects that treat the basics in the same way as the contributions, we spoke to the government, and the DOS deputies were elected by the government, although it should be the other way around, what is wrong, what is it that as of June 1st will not be good because of the situation in which this Serbia, and we are Serbia. The situation within the economy and within everything else that surrounds us is the situation in which we live. This is one legal project that is not good for employers anyway. We talked about this pay phone, we Serbian radicals, what's wrong with it, and it won't be good for the employees, and it won't be good for the employers. The basics proposed by this law, because of the situation in which our economy is located, are too large. That's why I'm proposing that these foundations be reduced. I've also proposed to the previous two legal projects the same reduction, so I suggest that now, and my proposal is to reduce it by 60% until all of you who have had your mouth full saying nice things to the people before the elections, that it will be like that when you come in, until you really create such conditions for the economy to be so social, that the economy can be so capable of paying these contributions, that it can be more normal to live in this country, not what you've done from October 5th to today. So I did suggest a 60% reduction, because it's appropriate at this point, when the economy is in a situation where it is and it can't or won't be able to separate these contributions based on these basics into the projected budget. I thought you'd propose a law, and that's what some DOS MPs said, some who plead may be ministers instead of ministers, to get into a comprehensive solution to this issue, health insurance issues. The situation in health care is what it is, it's accumulated in the last ten years, as it is. The fact that you ignored the situation, that this country lived in major blockades and sanctions in that environment, is the fact that everything collapsed, and therefore health care, but the fact that you did not offer a quality solution to which that health care would stand on healthy feet. The fact is that you did not propose the right solutions with this law, and so I suggest once again that you consider reducing these bases, so that the economy is in a position to make sense of them, in order to sort of fill the budget and to meet the needs of the population.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6518	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? If not, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 114, one was abstained, not voted 13, a total of 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted and withdrawn by the people sent by Predrag Bajcetic. I find that this amendment has been withdrawn. The proposal to add a new article 1a to article 1a was submitted by amendment MP Petar Petrovic. The Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (No). Does anyone else want a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 50, against 118, two abstentions, 14 did not vote, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The Government, the Health and Family Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6519	Ladies and gentlemen, my amendment concerns Article 108h, which reads in the draft law: "The order responsible for payment services is required to notify the competent Republic tax authority of employers who did not make a payment for the previous month at the latest by the end of the current month, or to pay a contribution in accordance with Article 108b of this Law." I suggest that this article reads: "The Order responsible for payment services is required by the end of the current month to notify the home branch of the Republic Health Insurance Office of employers who have not made the payment of earnings and the payment of contributions, in accordance with the same Article 108b of this law". The reason for this amendment is purely practical. In fact, if we compare a large number of economic operators who are really in a difficult situation with dry wood and try to look at them in one objective way, with all the troubles they have had so far to raise funds for the payout of their workers will also have increased torment since 1 June of this year due to the increased basis for contributions. All of this is added to the troubles they will have, related to the fact that they are told in the same bill, that they will establish the highest basis, therefore, of the salaries that will be more than the proposed amount of the average gross earnings. Also, all of this adds uncertainty regarding the determination of the rate of contribution, depending on whether the competent health ministers, the jobs and the social affairs will be agreed in an adequate manner, then the suffering that has been happening very often in practice, which is that one day the employers are being controlled by the PIO, on the second day financial, third day of the market, the fourth day of health insurance, etc. Three entities appear in the proposed solution: the Office for Accounting and Payment, the Tax Authority and the Health Insurance Office. I've suggested that only the Health Insurance Office is reporting, and that's taking back the powers of the Health Insurance Office's controllers, which I don't think is too much of a problem. I think employers would be deprived of one pain and it would be easier to control the payment of contributions, as proposed, therefore, in an excessive form and amount, that only control from the Health Insurance Office appears. Of course, it is up to you to assess whether such a proposal is appropriate. I think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6520	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? If not, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 58, against 124 abstentions, there were no two, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Government, the Health and Family Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6521	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a similar member, in fact not similar, the same member was in the amendments to the Law on PIO. There I tried to make the amendment a little more precise, as well as here in Article 9, which reads: "The tax authority is obliged to make a contribution within 8 days of receiving the notice referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article. Last time I explained it, some MPs figured it out, I'm taking the possibility that maybe I didn't explain it correctly, and I wasn't clear enough, but I'm going to try to explain it again. Why is it so essentially, the law doesn't change anything, crucially not, but gives one accuracy, one dimension, justice or regularity on the ground, determines some deadlines, how the employer should pay. This way, if it remains in the law to be within a certain period, that deadline is not defined, it is not defined, there is now a tax authority or an individual on the ground, and he can determine whatever he wants, according to some of his or her intentions, or according to some other affinities. So someone's gonna get that deadline for 30 days, some 60 days, some two days, some five days. We're leaving the employer completely unequal. If we here with this amendment set that deadline up to 30 days, then we've really set a deadline. I think it's so clear and logical, I really don't see any reason why this amendment should not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6522	Anybody else answer for a word? I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 58, against 120, two abstentions, 5 did not vote, a total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 10th of the amendment. The Government, the Health and Family Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and find that 57 MPs, against 108, have not been detained, have not voted 19, a total of 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th position of the 5th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Slobodan Janjic and Goran Cvetanovic. The Government, the Health and Family Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? Here you go, Mr. Lamb.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the parliamentary majority in this assembly doesn't realize that the application of this member of the control authorities by means of free authority decides to impose a ban on the exercise of activity from 30 to 90 days. If the fines, which are really high, do not result in any result, then the most likely reason is the non-payment of certain contributions and the inability to pay certain obligations, the penalties are far greater than the liabilities of the contribution, so no one will risk paying the high fines because he has not settled the contributions and it is possible that he is currently in the blockade and that this payment can follow after five to ten, fifteen or three days. When a company ceases to operate for 30 to 90 days, the possibility of recovery and possible reconciliation of certain obligations is lost, so I asked for Article 10 to delete Article 5, which reads: "Besides the fines laid down in item 1 of point 4 of this Article to the employer referred to in Article 1 and 2 of this Article may be imposed on the prohibition of performance from 30 to 90 days". If these high sentences don't have any effect, I don't think they're going to give a ban, especially what's allowed in the interpretation -- they can, they don't, and who decides and by what criteria, how they're going to choose who they're going to give 30 and who's going to give 90 days. I believe that this amendment should be accepted because you will allow many economic operators to survive these measures and obligations imposed on them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6524	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 56, there were no abstentions against 119, there were no votes of eight, out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. This ended the search of the draft law in particular and the decision on amendments. Does the Proposer's representative want a final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6525	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I apologize, because just before I called, I thought the debate was over, because I didn't attend the session until the end of yesterday, because of my duties elsewhere. I spoke of the law on two occasions, and I have nothing special to say, but I owe it to you, our public, a few sentences against what happened here. In 1994, in the Federal Assembly, I was a federal MP and at the very beginning of that year, during a debate over Republika Srpska, when the Socialists sold it for small money to anyone, Mr. Seselj attacked me very low and hard in the Federal Assembly. I was in a situation to go out and say a few sentences, and Mr. Seselj, as a man at the head of the political party and very responsible for his party, went out and apologized to me in front of the television audience and in front of the Assembly. So, I'm the only man Mr. Seselj has publicly apologized to. But then radicals were a powerful police force, this political formation And the police, of course, had a political perspective, they had a future and he took care of what he was doing. [[Laughter]] Today, radicals and their party are a group of desperate men who sleep like rabbits, afraid the police would come to them because they were dragging their fingers into the state register, because they were dealing with non-good jobs. Who deals with various types of crime...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6526	Mr. Joksimovicu, please speak as Minister of Health, not to conduct such discussions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6527	And that's why they're in a situation right now to attack everyone and everyone. If you are making a comparison between their MPs and the present, it is easy for you to find a result. Today they have, for example, a man from the Fireman who suffers from Minhausen syndrome. It's called the pseudology of fiction. A man who thinks the house can be made not by buying four thousand pieces of ticks, ten thousand blocks, a wagon of cement, a few tons of iron, so a hitchhiker comes in, you know, a fork, so pick it up, so put it on a truck, but you can steal it somewhere and put it in your pocket.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6528	Mr. Joksimovic, I remind you to keep an eye on what we're talking about here today. Be kind enough to talk about what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6529	Here, I'll end up in two sentences right now. So, the gentleman who was otherwise called "Buchkalo" in Pogorevac suffers from Minhauzen syndrome, and he, for example, was talking as a child about how who came into existence, the children claimed that they were born by the birth, and he claimed that his dad had taken him out of the Danube by squabbling on the clump.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6530	We have a replica. You'll get your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6531	Mr Joksimovicu, you are a disgrace to Serbia. Serbia has never had worse ministers than in this government meeting formed by Zoran Djindjic. You're the worst in that congregation. I'd watch what I say about this pay phone when I'm texting the MPs of a political party if I were you. You would have disappeared from political life if you hadn't been embraced by the DSS and made yourself some capital. If you were a doctor, you'd never make any public diagnosis from this pay phone, but you're not even a doctor. You're a man bloated, bloated with hate. I don't know what you needed today. If you didn't steal that iron, come out here and say, "I've never stolen a kilo of iron in my life," the MP lied yesterday, finished the job. If you were stealing iron, then you're turning the story around, you're talking about a 1994 SRS police party, when Vojislav Seselj was arrested by Milosevic's regime, so it has nothing to do with the police party. When we were in power, Mr. Joksimovic, we had nothing to do with the police, we called the police minister a fool and asked for his resignation here. But I don't know what you need. You're held by the time Vojislav is in the Council of Citizens, I was present, I said you were a traitor. You went out and said you were operating as a doctor on the front. Vojislav apologized and said he was wrong, but that you belonged to a foreigner who was then a traitor. It was like that. But now that you belong to another political party, I'd ask you to listen a little bit better, or to wash your ears, it didn't make you a better man. You remain as your father and mother gave birth to you, you are not ready enough for the post of minister, Mr Joksimovic, and you can see it from each of your performances. That was also well assessed by the President of the Assembly, who belongs to your political group, which is the political group that you ran into and who reminded you of your behavior. If you were a Serbian radical, Mr Joksimovic, from today on you would no longer be a minister, I guarantee you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6532	Replica, Mr. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6533	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable President, fellow MPs, members of the government, the words spoken by the Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Serbia are below any level of dignity of the minister and the government that he represents, and may be honored by both the minister and the government in which he is represented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6534	There is a word from MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6535	Mr. Minister, you also diagnosed me with some kind of disease, so I don't know, to ask you, do I owe you anything for that? As for building houses, I know how the house is made, I've been making mine for 13 years. I've been making 13 years, and I still live in the basement. I don't know how you made yours. And as for the other part, which I said, which is not related to artillery iron, when I came out after my exposure to the lobby, I had a few calls from Petrovec, where the citizens were supporting me and said I was right. You can also ask and apologize to you, it is your right, and mine, whether or not I will, but how will you people, who have come to you for help, and see how you have abused and their misfortune, and their situation, and don't tell us, more or more, to the Serbian radical stranger about this honesty. In my 30 years, I've been through a lot in my life, three wars, Mr. Minister, I have another military deadline called participation in the war. I didn't take anything from anyone. I moved to the firehouse in 1980, so the kids couldn't call me "Buchko." Where I lived before, find out. I've never had a nickname like that. I may have had a nickname because I had clawy ears, maybe I had some nickname because I don't see it well, but that kind of nonsense, Mr. Minister, doesn't suit you, you're a minister. There's an MP who can knock some nonsense, the minister can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6536	I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular and put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act as a whole. For 126, against 55, there were no abstentions, no four votes, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act. We move to the 19th point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Social Welfare on Children (National MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic asks for a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. ) He has the word National MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Presidency, in accordance with Article 88(1), which states that the time of presentation of the People's Parliament is 10 minutes, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise at the beginning of the search for a particular item of the agenda, I suggest that at the coming point, or at the 19th point of the agenda, the time for the presentation of the People's Parliament is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6538	There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6539	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday, because of the similar intervention of the ruling majority's representatives, I went out for this pay phone and tried to influence you and ask, if you will, it's human not to do this. We see that the Central Committee has made no decision not to transfer, the question is when will this decision begin to apply, of course, without the National Assembly. We saw yesterday that it was adopted and that it was determined that the discussion would not last 10 minutes, but five minutes. I call on you not to do it further, it will be decided that people do not have to attend in the hall, so Mr. Jovanovic can come out, I can go out for the pay phone, anyone, and that no one is living in the O.R., and the debate can take place, and you have prepared such decisions. I ask you not to go further with the restrictions on parliamentary rights, not to continue to deny the right of MPs to present their political opinion, their political views, and it would be perfectly reasonable and perfectly normal to allow them to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This isn't some extraordinary, or special situation, which is why a different out-of-work solution should be applied. On the other hand, I don't think there's any need for that, but in the last few days, every day we've averaged, if you want, two or three laws. I don't think you've had any problems here either, I can't understand where you need to try in every way, certain, rigid restrictive measures, influence the MPs and deny them the right. It just seems to me that it doesn't lead anywhere and that it will only lead to even greater dissatisfaction for citizens, who watch the sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, more than ever, indeed, because they have nowhere else to hear, or where else to read. I can't at least think differently from the ruling majority's opinion. That is why we call on you not to accept this proposal by the MEPs and not to limit the discussion, regardless of which I am sure that, in any case, it will not last too long, especially because of the very nature of the law and the compliance with the other laws that we have already passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6540	I hope that we will no longer open a debate on matters that are not open to discussion in the Rules of Procedure. I was expecting some other proposal, denial or extension, but good. You went into debate, and it's not the Rules of Procedure's debate on this matter. I would like to put to the vote the motion of the MP, Mr Radosavljevic, to be held in the context of the 19th debate in principle for five minutes. For 117, against 57, with four abstentions, 5 did not vote, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Bozidar Vucurović, Branislav Blažić, Srbojub Živanovic, Hrnislav Perić, Predrag Mijailović, Dragan Čolić, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Borislav Pelevic, Toma Busetic, Bozidar Vujic and National MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanović, as well as the government's opinion on the submitted amendments. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? He has the word Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6541	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice president, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to express my regret that, in considering this very important Law on Social Care for Children, there is not a resolution minister among us. I hope that doesn't show the position of the competent social care ministry on children. First of all, I would like to say that, by studying this bill and comparing it to the already adopted Budget Law, I have come to the knowledge that these two laws are in collegiate. This is where we passed the Budget Law for this year. In the light of this law, which is an integral part of the Budget Act, it states that the right to a maternal supplement has every mother and that the maternal supplement is 30% of the average net earnings in the economy of the Republic. It also states that the right to help with newborn equipment has every mother with the first three children and that this aid is paid once and amounts to one average net profit per employee in the economy. When it comes to child support, the right to child care, it also says that for the first three children in the family, depending on the material position of the family, the order of birth of the child, and regardless of the material conditions, the right to an allowance for children has a family with three children, i.e. a third child in municipalities, i.e. parts of municipalities with a negative rate of population. When we compare the Budget Act that has already been adopted, with this bill, we come to the realization that this new legal project, in practice, reduces expenditure on child welfare and reduces this maternal supplement, reduces the right to help with newborn equipment and reduces children's allowances. It's regulated by Article 2, where instead of 30%, the average net wage is now down to 9%. In Article 3 for newborn equipment instead of one average salary, it is now scheduled to be 30% of the average earnings per employee in the Republic. In Article 5, children's allowances are significantly reduced compared to the adopted Budget Law. The budget law sets out the means to cover these expenditures. I know that someone from the government, or government, is not going to, because there's no one here, but their spokesman is sure to say that this applies to gross wages, and that's clear to me, because we've been talking about it for more than a few months. It is that this legislative project should have been brought into line with the already adopted Budget Law, i.e. the Budget Law, so as to make these figures, these percentages that the government has provided for social care for children. When this data, these percentages that are suggested compared to today's average of personal income, then we find out that it's really a drastic reduction in all these birthrights and birthrights, and also a child's supplement. That's very clear. If the government's representatives say the salary was before 5 October 80 marks, and it was, then it was 24 marks. If today's average is 4.270, which is according to the Bureau of Statistics, it is now 140 marks and it is 12.6 marks. So instead of 24 marks, you're now going to receive 12.6 marks. It is therefore a matter of halfing the funds that are designated for the right to a mother's allowance. The right to help with the baby's equipment was earlier on with an average of 80 marks of salary, it was, and today it is 140 marks, and today it is 42 marks. Previously, there were 80 marks of one salary and 80 marks was one average salary that was obtained for the right to assist the child’s newborn equipment. We've reached a 50% reduction here. It's also about this third one, where the children's extras are drastically reduced, for all three categories of children. (President: Time. ) Indeed a drastic reduction of over 50%, and although someone will probably say that this is not a reduction, then you just have to look at the average we received before October 5th and the average we are now receiving, in dinars or stamps, whatever. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6542	Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6543	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in these nearly 10 years as a National or Federal MP, there have been plenty of sessions I would like to remember, and there have been those I would not want, because of my participation in one or the other. Sessions of the National Assembly where we adopted amendments and additions to the Law on Social Care for Children I am happy to remember, because now the applicable law has been passed on my proposal. After many months of alignment with the then ruling SPS, which eventually accepted that in the social care of children, there is much to be changed in the current law, so that we in Serbia would show that we care for our successors or that we would like to have them. I've been looking at this bill from that point of view. I'm always ready to accept that something I've written in my time should be changed if it changes for the better. I also made this observation to you when you changed the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and ruined some solutions that may not have been good, and you further ruined them. Here's now in the Law on Social Care for Children, which brings rights, and I'm not saying it brings payouts, but it gives rights, you're reducing the amount of rights passed by the Law on Social Care for Children. I can't even say any more legislator, I have to say law-changer or what to call you, because you're just a law-matcher, because you're just coordinating something with the EU, he's aware of that. There is a possibility that the opposition is right when it claims that this is how you estimate percentages for pregnant women, maternity parents and children less supplements. I think you've had enough time to recalculate a little and realize that this country has gone a lot of things wrong. Yes, if you're already hanging out with these Germans, you have to answer their question, how is it that in this country for the six months in which nothing is done, in which almost nothing is produced, a dinar is worth the same as the brand in Germany, in which you work 24 hours a day? Consciously holding on to a course like this, you are, in fact, damaging us here in Serbia and robbing us. That's why we're priced in stamps. So now for 10 marks, you can't buy something that could be bought for three stamps at a time. That's why all these stamp calculations, and we're forced to do them, since it's probably some stable currency, show that in fact the citizens of Serbia have much less than they had. That's why prices in Serbia are going up enormously, enormously, so that manufacturers can cover the losses they have on the goods they export. All of those stages are us who are 50 years old in Serbia already. We passed the stage when the car in Serbia cost 10,000 marks, and in America it was sold for two thousand dollars, let's say for four thousand marks. At the time, all that loss was compensated by a consumer who bought goods in Serbia. It's happening again now and it's a phenomenon that someone has to make known. For nothing, we're grateful that NBJ already has a billion dollars in the vaults. We're getting more expensive. What does Kir Janje collect that money for, I don't know, if it's not for the economy, if it's not for the citizens of Serbia. That's the way it is with the Law of Social Care for Children. Yes, you say here you'll recalculate after three months, but you're convinced that the law is financially neutral. I don't think that's true. If something that was 30% net, turn it into 9% gross. There's something wrong: 30% of the previous net is not 9% of today's gross. You don't even call him gross, you call him profit. We've been so complicated these days, I'm just waiting for the realization to finally determine who's right. Maybe you should have gotten into this law a little bit more. At the time I wrote changes and additions, we had municipalities where there were more than four children and there were municipalities where the white plague was harassed. (President: Time. I'm done. We have then tried to correct this by this bill and eventually encourage the birth of Serbia's regions in which it did not provide the basis for Serbia to survive as a state. There are now fewer and fewer municipalities where population growth is above the average in the Republic. Perhaps it was necessary to delete these provisions for the fourth child, which refer only to municipalities in which population growth is below average. Unfortunately, we no longer have many municipalities to ensure equal rights for all citizens of Serbia, although it may have touched the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I think you've only been monetaryally reviewing all these bill proposals, not precisely enough, I'd say, but that's what practice will confirm. I think it was time to show that there was something better than what existed so far. If you claim that everything remains on the same basis that it has been on so far, it is right to ask why the government has been changed in the first place. So I hope this limitation of time, when we talk about the Law of Social Care about children, that it wasn't well thought out. It won't take long to discuss this law, but it can sound very bad. Of course, we won't use that, when the congregation majority says - about the Law on Social Care of Children - we'll discuss it shorter than the Rules of Procedure is intended to discuss any other law. Then the question is, what kind of child care is that?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6544	He has the word Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6545	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not like to see today's opposition, and former government, I criticise the realisation of guaranteed rights by the Law on Social Care of Children. I don't think at least in that part of your activities I can challenge you as people who have good intentions towards children. But together we can discuss the possibility of our society really applying the rights that the state must apply, given that it is bound by law. The child welfare law was amended in 1992 once, in 1993 three times, in 1994 it was changed twice and in 1996 it was changed once again. I'm sorry if there's been any more changes in the meantime. This is the information I received from the congregation services. So the law is adaptable to reality. In advance, I want to tell you that we are trying not to diminish the rights of those who have exercised their rights under this law and that we are giving special attention to the realisation of the obligations we have towards children. In the circumstances in which the previous government existed and functioned, it may have been logical that certain delays in the payment of funds were made on the basis of a mother’s allowance, i.e. the assets of materially endangered families. I want to tell you that we have inherited the obligations that amounted to 24 months in terms of mother's allowance and 26 months in terms of an allowance paid to vulnerable families. We're at peace now. It is impossible in Serbia, which is the way it is, to take full respect for a law that itself has never been fully implemented before. This law has provided financial neutrality against what it is a characteristic of the state's relationship with those whose rights are guaranteed by this law. It is provided for a very clear Article 6 to coordinate the funds to be allocated to children with the cost of living. So no one has any intention to further restrict such narrow rights. But please, when we talk about this law, let's talk about the aspect from which we as a state are obliged to pass the laws that we can apply. We can make whatever law we want. Then the question arises why do we pass laws that are in themselves and are fundamentally controversial, because they are inapplicable. Otherwise, we can pass a law that, say, Kosovo and Metohija is a sovereign part of Serbia, that we go down and organize congregations, but we won't get far. We can ignore reality, but we will also not solve problems. We must burden our economy and those who produce, to the extent that such a burden can endure. There are many of these burdens, and we constantly stumble in the criticisms and arguments in which they explain themselves. On this point, I don't think we can achieve party programmes and we can't try to achieve any, say, opposition benefits. So we very clearly insist on financial neutrality, very clearly in Article 6, we say that we will coordinate the funds that we set aside with the cost of living and we have made it very clear that we are ready to take care of our society, first and foremost through the reconciliation of the obligations that we have inherited. In that case, we're not accusing anyone of anything like that. That's not our job. Our job is to say that we had 24 months later, to reduce that delay, that we had 26 months later and that we're also reducing it. We also have to say here that in these 100 days, the government has not been late to settle its obligations to children, that the government has allocated large funds to resuscitate institutions where unsettled children are located, that many programs have been launched. You're witnessing such activity. So when we talk about this law, let's just talk about facts. They're very clear. There is a change resulting from the transition from a net principle to a gross principle, and it is very clear in Article 6 that all the proportions, possibly at this point, will be followed by the transition from a net to a gross principle, will be removed by harmonising with the cost of life. So if this simple math is applied, there's no logic in which 9% of gross can be greater than 30% of net. But we count, given the increase in earnings followed by the period of our government from October 5th to today, that this gross salary at the end of the year will be much higher than it is now, and that by applying that right, grossly earned profit of 9%, it will certainly be provided with more resources than those guaranteed by the net principles. (President: Time. ) So, let us, if we can, at least on this point not to be as incorrect as it can be if everything is observed in such a way. I don't think children should be the subject of our policy that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6546	Mr. Pelevic, second call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6547	Dear ladies and gentlemen, as much as the Government cares about children shows the fact that no minister is present as we discuss the Law on Social Care for Children, and especially not the Minister of Resolution. So much for the government's care. I would not agree with my predecessor if Kosovo and Metohija were not a sovereign part of Serbia and Yugoslavia. It is a sovereign part of Serbia, and I hope that's how it always will be. Right now, because of the occupation and the foreign protectorate, we don't have the kind of intelligence we need to have. But if we say, as representatives of the government, that Kosovo and Metohija are not a sovereign part of Serbia, then these are very difficult and unacceptable words for me. If I understood Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic correctly, he said in his presentation, in fact, that these donations are much less than those that were under the previous law. That's exactly why we can pass some law today that just isn't applicable. I wouldn't say that. We have already come to the conclusion simply by simple calculation that this law has dramatically reduced the incomes made by children, or mothers, under this law. If so and if we want to pass this law, Article 6, as Mr Jovanovic said, we must comply with the cost of living. Then let's do it today. The cost of life has already increased so much that simple mathematics has come out that 24 marks have just been received before, and today 12.6 marks, for a maternal supplement. For newborn equipment instead of 80 marks, what was one average net profit, now instead of being at least that, 80, it's 42 stamps. This isn't math, this is life, these are facts, and that's what this is about. I fully understand Mr. Jovanovic's desire that, in the absence of a resolute minister or any other member of the government, he represents the government, and that's fine, I have nothing against it, but let it be clear that Mr. Ceda Jovanovic is a spokesman for the Serbian government, because ministers do not want to attend the National Assembly sessions when deciding on their advances, on their laws. Please take the DOS gentlemen as a fact, too. It's demeaning not only us from the opposition, but from you from the government. It's your ministers, it's a demeaning of all citizens of Serbia, all over this high house. You can cancel the transmissions, stop them, you can vote it. As you have noticed, the Serbian Unity Party has never abused this speaker, nor used it to propagate its programme. We're just seriously considering all the laws. Stop the transmissions, let's discuss without any MP here, no quorum, and then we'll probably be the only ones who work, we'll talk to each other, and you won't be interested in it. It's your right, but please, when it comes to child law, we all have great responsibility here and let us agree today, given that the cost of life has already increased so much and that the salary has increased compared to the period before your arrival to power, that today we agree to apply these very criteria and apply them. It's not a problem, but it's logical, and is it a good thing that we stop mothers and children from receiving them in half? I don't think it's right. Let's understand that the Serb people are in a major crisis of birth, that the white plague is plagued all over Serbia. I don't mind that the rise in birth rate has been recorded in Albanians and Muslims. May they be happy, but we must also take care of our people. We will become a national minority in our own country in 25 years, and then we will speak another language, Bosnian or not, in other words, Albanian. Please understand that this is something that is not about politics and I completely agree with Mr. Jovanovic that we must not abuse this. These are our children, this is the future of our nation, but don't be like the new government to cut them in half and that little church they've been receiving or not received so far. I'm really saying this out of the best of intentions and I'm appealing to you from DOS to accept this as reality and as a fact. Take the digitron, you'll calculate and you'll see that the actual receipts are twice as small as they were under the previous law. I thank you for your attention and for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6548	Replica, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6549	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the opposition can interpret what we do as it pleases, but I use my right in accordance with the Rules of Procedure as a representative of the DOS parliamentary group and comment on the legislative proposals that lie ahead of us. In those comments, we can differ, but we cannot differ in interpretation of what is said for the congregation speaker. We can pass here today a law that we're going to commit to, say, applying those budget allocations, and here I mean raising funds both in Kosovo and Metohija, but let's see who does. We can schedule the assembly session in Gjilan, but you're not going there either, Mr. Pelevic. Those are our facts. We can say there were some rights, but those rights have never been applied. For two years, no one has applied these rights, we now have to repay those debts, and we must explain to this society that this country is incapable of applying such a right. Is she incompetent because of 100 days of DOS government? She showed her ability in those 100 days. She's never been late once, but 700,000 unemployed people, 770,000 people on forced vacations, 800,000 refugees, a constant requirement to provide funding for social programs, that's not what we can do and that without any problem we pass a law in the Assembly that can't be applied from the beginning. It is very clear in Article 6 that the allocation of funds with an increase in the cost of life will be harmonised. It's very precise and it will be done. We cannot speak here in the congregation how much that increase will be in May or June of the month. We can say that the government has shown its willingness and that is why we support it, to correct that difference, to allocate funds, but we can't say that it will apply a law that isn't real. Maybe one day it'll be real, we hope it will, but I also hope we don't blush at the end of the year because we haven't paid off a child's allowance or that we haven't paid off some social benefit we were obliged to pay off. So it's reality and nothing else. What the government's position on the issue cannot be interpreted on the basis of its presence in parliament, as it is at least here to discuss the laws. Assembly transfers last and citizens witness the correctness of what we are saying here. In any case, the Government is doing its job which in this particular case can be seen in the obligations it fulfils. There's no delay since January of the month until today. On the contrary, we also cover the debts which we have inherited. Let's talk about what reality is. Anything else can be a matter of politics, but without facts and arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6550	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and then by MP Jovan Deretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6551	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I almost cried when I heard the head of the DOS parliamentary group, Cedomir Jovanovic, who only says - we don't have the money, it has to be so. I was so sorry, and I know the people didn't choose them to cry over the fate of the people, but to make things better for them. The Serbian Radical Party believes that this is not the way to reduce the parameters used to calculate censorship and the level of rights in the area of social care for children. Especially now when everything is expensive and even harder to live than the Pre-Octobar Revolution. What kind of child care are we talking about? We taxed children's diapers, baby food, medicines, juices, school books, notebooks, accessories, shoes and clothes. Those who earn -- the subject, and they don't know what the law is on the agenda, but that's already their problem. Indeed, any law that we adopt here or reduces the rights of budgetary users is either due to an increase in prices or some taxes, which citizens and businesses are paying for are increasing. I'm asking you to think about this law a little bit. The misery is already quite social, and this is how we create even greater misery. It is clear that this law does not increase the rights of those who are financed from the Republic's budget. By increasing the base, you say that the neutral fact of the law is being achieved in a financial way, which will say that the rights are not increasing, but are not shrinking. We think that the rights are shrinking and that's one of the MPs, the paralegals proved the argument behind this speaker, but even if you're right, after all the gatherings and announcements of new gatherings should be done much more in this area. In particular, mothers, or families, or children living in that family with three, four, and more children in those municipalities with negative rates of natural growth should be helped. It is not worth talking about the ageing of a nation, the need to give birth to more children, and to reduce existing rights. We don't care if this government can secure it right now. She is obliged to provide, if she wants to be better and more successful than the previous government. Then why is changing the previous government if it stays the same as it was in the previous period? The budget is at least three times bigger than the 2000 budget. We move on to gross earnings, taxation and a warm meal, and a regression, you say there will be much more revenue in the budget, financial discipline will improve. You say there's a lot of donations, a lot of favourable foreign loans, and there's no more thieves and secikes in the government, and there's a reduction of existing rights. How's that? Where's the money? Who's stealing money from kids now? The minister's here now, and I don't think he's a minister before, so he's probably running off somewhere to take the redness off his face. I ask you, Madam Minister, the government is fair, the budget is bigger, the financial discipline will be better, you say, there's a donation, there's everything: where's the money, who takes the money? Since I have a little time left, I have to realize that DOS is really the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6552	The word has the minister of social affairs, Mrs Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6553	I'm sorry I wasn't here at first. Now I'd like to take my word for it just to say a few things. It's about social giving, so the rights aren't shrinking, it's calculated that what used to be net, that now it's a share for gross, with what we've predicted in this law, you'll see, in this Article 6, that every three months through the Life Cost Index, these givings are coordinated, so that there's no chance of a change in amount, real, what you get. In that sense, the existing rights will certainly not be diminished, and as they say, we'll have a chance to look ourselves in the eye after three months, so let's say, if the amount of what we get decreases, I don't think either of us will be a problem to figure it out, so that they will percentage, if we have to change. So what these changes and additions absolutely guarantee is that the existing rights under the law will not change. When it comes to whether families with children will be further protected, if everything that we have foreseen in terms of a better inflow of funds into the budget is realized, we are within the Ministry of Finance, you have certainly discussed this in the adoption of the budget, provided for a single aid fund. Since we know that families with children in other countries in transition are really among those groups of people who paid the highest price, we predicted that if they were to be filled in the way we think they would be filled, then, once more times in the course of this year, we would be going with additional donations to these families. It's an explanation of what will happen if, as we think it will, the budget is charged in a better way. We think that if it's more giving, in accordance with the possibilities, that nothing prevents us from giving more, if the law provides less. Anyway, when it comes to these changes and additions, nothing's gonna change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6554	The word has been given by MP Aleksandar Vucic, as representative of the SRS parliamentary group, another announcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just have to notice that I won't use or abuse this pay phone. I went out to talk, and I didn't bring an axe or a saw, so I'm not going to cut what's next to me, I'm going to talk about what I think I'm supposed to say, and citizens are going to judge who's their political interests. I was really sure that Minister Matkovic, unlike his predecessors, would come in time, especially as opposed to Mr Joksimovic, who we delayed a few days of discussion about the Health Insurance Act, i.e. the amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act, and then, when he granted us his presence, it would be better if we hadn't, without his presence, had we conducted this debate. As far as the law itself is concerned, Minister Matkovic is right: the government of the Republic of Serbia's competent services have calculated relatively well and are similar nominal amounts. So they should be paid by the rights and obligations of this law. What we have in the Serbian Radical Party is an observation of the essential nature, it is true that similar nominal amounts, when you compare gross earnings and net wages, so what you call today is gross earnings or what we all have to call roughly the same, but it is a big difference in what is a huge difference in living needs and prices today, although the nominal amount is the one that the government is going to pay almost identical. That's because what you could buy for 380 dinars six months ago, you need about 800 dinars today. That's the key difference, and that's why we're saying today that in fact, these rights that will be exercised by persons who have the right to do so, the right to a mother's allowance, the right to the child's equipment, the right to a child's allowance, that these rights will be significantly less than they were in the previous period. So it seems to me that the government was supposed to pay attention to that kind of alignment, so there was supposed to be a higher percentage, and that's the kind of alignment with what was before, if there wasn't a larger number already, a larger part of the funding, it was supposed to be done in the very draft of the law. So, not only is a nominal replacement done, is it going to be 9% or 30%, or gross earnings equal to net wages, but it is going to be brought into line with the increase in the cost of life that is enormous in the previous period. When I say enormous, in any case over 100%. That's what we essentially resent. You can even look at examples of help rights for newborn equipment, because today, we have seen by the laws we've passed, no more tax exemptions from children's clothing, school supplies, all of this has to be paid big taxes, all the other fiscal taxes. It immediately draws prices from what it will receive in accordance with the rights and obligations of the Law on Social Care of Children, it will not be possible to buy, I'm sure, not 50% of what it could have been before, regardless of what the nominal amount is, almost identical if it is calculated well. On the other hand, I would point out something interesting, which we as the National Assembly, as MPs, would have to take into account, which is, in Article 20a, it is said - that the right to help and equipment of newborns has every mother for the first three children in the family, and in municipalities, that is, in parts of municipalities with a negative rate of natural origin of the population, and for the fourth child. Why is it even limited, why would it exist, we're not in a situation anymore, there may have been certain reasons that they've imposed. But today we're not in this situation anymore. Why doesn't it matter why a fourth child is not entitled, or a fifth child, or a sixth child? I can criticize myself there, obviously I'm not capable, I only have one son, I'm not capable. Well done, Minister Matkovic, I'll try to catch up with her, but in any case, it seems to me that these rights should provide for everyone. And to those who will have both a fourth and a fifth and a sixth child, if God gives, and someone more, and capable and intelligent people who will deal with child support, there is no better and smarter job. So, I think that should have made these changes and additions, and it should have been approached, I think, in a slightly more serious way, that there should not be an exclusive alignment with the previous legal projects that we have already adopted, that there should not be what we have already talked about in relation to the Health Insurance Act, the Labour and Employment Act and all other laws. However, to make some changes, not only to be a harmonisation, but to have something that can be seriously suggested to the MPs. On the other hand, one very serious issue is raised on the expert side: we have a nominal amount and some say in real terms, triple the budget. Three times the budget. Wasn't there anything out of three times the budget that could be singled out? This is a small financial loan. I say small, they're not small, because when it comes to paying the police, paying the health care, schooling and everything else, these are still small budget cuts, and could be allocated at least 1.5 times more than what we had before, and then we'd have that as an incomparably higher percentage, and that money in real terms could be paid something more than what was paid before. It's true that the state is in crisis. It's true he's got a lot of problems. But at the same level, at the same level, the same level could be maintained by the government's obligations to the users of these social benefits, and that state would not have been much damaged, especially because you succeeded in the election campaign and the transitional government to cover from several donations that came from abroad. Because in these conditions, it's really not big money. I think we could do this, not too much, but how much to boost the birth rate of our people, with the Serbs. We have a huge number of municipalities where mortality is greater than birth, where natural growth is below zero. It seems to me that the only thing we've come closer to is the Western European countries, the Scandinavian countries and almost nothing else. In addition to this action and what was to be done, perhaps some other actions had to be taken earlier. The departments used to do some advertising and propaganda campaigns, trying to do it, and now I see that there are some new research. Maybe you're aware of what the mass media should do to make it better. Some also suggest other types of films that were recently banned...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6556	Mr. Wolfie, I'm warning you that time has gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6557	Here, I'm done. I won't take the saw, I won't abuse the pay phone, don't worry. So, I think we should just... And what are you here? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6558	You can call the third call to put Mr. Wolfie together.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6559	Why don't you go out for a pay phone and don't tell me what you've got.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6560	Please don't throw it away. Mr. Wolfie, you can put this together with the third call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6561	Here, I have another sentence. I can't understand that his biggest problem in life is that I've been saying it for two minutes longer. The only thing he knows is, you've been over two minutes, you've been over a minute. I haven't told you a single word about DOS policy or anything else. So, I expect and hope that in the coming period and some fundamental changes you will propose to the National Assembly, which is why you might possibly be able to hope and try to cure the white plague and correct the position of the person who has the least rights today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6562	The word has Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6563	I'd just like to add one precision. So when we compare what has been given so far in this domain and what is now given, it is true that the extent of the right remains the same but, unlike the previous period, we pay that right. So in the realised budget, the share for these purposes will be much higher if we keep paying them the way we've paid them these three months. So it's regular. It is a fact that the scope of the law does not increase, but the fact is, you know, you've brought bonds to the Assembly to solve the problem of child support. The fact is, it wasn't worth it. Those rights existed, but they didn't pay off. So now, in that realised budget, the share in the structure of what social giving is going to be significantly greater, and otherwise I think, and that's one dilemma that remains to be resolved, and I hope that when we come out with the whole law, that this right when it looks at what it should really wear and what part of it actually protects, then we should do with indices and the cost of life even tie them up, because that's how it stays realistic on that level. We predicted it in the last three months. I think that's going to be the direction we're going to predict them when we make complete changes. Otherwise, this is a very sensitive and extensive set of rights that we really need to balance well. Last time I said that the fundamental change law is not yet on the agenda of that plan that the government has made, and I hope that we will all have the opportunity to co-operate on making that new bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6564	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Deretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6565	Dear Madam President, dear fellow MPs, I must first refer to Mrs. Minister's speech. She came in late, and she was not present when Professor Pelevic, president of the Soviet Union, proved with one precise mathematics that rights are shrinking and 50% in proportion. Recalculate yourself again. Math is math. As for this bill, unfortunately, only worse than the worse proposal from this government comes here before us. Personally, I want to say that I have nothing against President Djindjic, none of the ministers, but my conscience requires me to say that their policy is devastating for Serbia, that none of the laws passed before the assembly have a transitional assessment. This law today is a disaster. If this law is passed, it means the silent death of Serbia. We have a negative birth rate. We have a problem moving the population. We will be a minority in our country within a maximum of 25 years. Each responsible government in such a situation is taking steps to raise birth, prevent the population from being displaced and all those measures that will prevent the spread of the white plague. What is this government doing with this bill? She's doing the opposite. Well, she's worse than NATO bombs. The consequences of the government's policy will be worse per Serbia than the NATO bomb itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6566	Mr. Deretic, I warn you not to insult, but to return to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6567	I don't insult anyone. This is the topic. You say you'll pay a regular child's allowance. Three-faced 6% of the average profit is not hard to pay. I'm sure you won't blush to pay for it. And what's this? There's something until the third kid, and then there's nothing. Is that how you fight the white plague? Is that how you want to encourage ethnicity in Serbia? No, gentlemen, you must be told the truth. You really are something Serbia didn't deserve.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6568	The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6569	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, respected members of the Government, by putting on the agenda the Bill on Social Care on Children, I realized that the Government only wants to comply with this law with the Labour Relations Act, that the current system of net earnings agrees with the principle of gross earnings, where a warm meal, a regression for vacations, an allowance for transport over a certain amount, a field supplement and others is included. However, when more thorough consideration is given to data on the amounts of benefits paid so far to users of childcare, it can be seen that these duties are significantly reduced. This applies to the maternal supplement, to the aid for the baby’s equipment and to the child’s supplement. In the state of the birth and so-called natality. The white plague issue of providing material support to families with small children should be the country's strategic issue. It would be logical to do a study and put a demographic movement issue on the agenda and establish Serbia's demographic policy. Taking into account the current level of standard of living, and in order to foster birth, it would be normal for the government to propose an increase in childcare benefits for consumers. Unfortunately, it did not propose an increase, but rather, it proposed a significant reduction. This is where Mrs. Minister said she's holding on to the same level. You'll see with the bill, I'll prove it's not like that, and unfortunately, that reduction is about 30%, and for that I'll present the data, so it'll be clear to everyone. This reduction is about 30% for all categories of these users, who received child care benefits. On the basis of the available data, I've done proper checks and it will be clear, indeed, how much reduction it is. When recalculating the amounts paid so far, which are due to be paid after the law is passed, the government's promise to keep the current fiscal burden was kept. So the state of taxes and contributions will be reduced, rates, due to the increase in the base, but the fiscal amount, at least that's how I realized, all along the government has explained that it will remain at the present level. Here's the example -- we have officially published data for March of the month. In the economy, net earnings amounted to 4,199 dinars, and so far it has served as a basis for paying these fees. Under the new law, it is proposed - Serbia's salary was net of 4.262 dinars. If we accepted that it would be the same fiscal burden, so we add 1:1, so far it was that amount, so to this amount we add 4.262 dinars, we add 1,050 dinars warm meal for March of the month and 350 dinars regress for vacation, that's 9,924 dinars. Now, these are our basics. Mother's supplement for mothers who do not have the right to profit, meaning they are not in a working relationship, so far had 30%, at 4.199 dinars that is 1,260 dinars, and now the proposal is 9% on this gross basis of 9.924 dinars, which is 893 dinars. That's less than 367 dinars, or 29.13%. Furthermore, if we look at the right to help with newborn equipment, so far there has been one average net profit. That, then, is a March month 4.199 dinar. It is now proposed to make 30% of the average earnings per employee in the Republic, this gross earnings, at 9.924 dinars of 2,977 dinars, or less 1,222 dinars, or 29.10% lower. Let's look at the same situation of child supplement - for the first child, so far it's 20% on 4.199 dinars, and that was 840 dinars, now the proposal is at gross 6%, we get 595 dinars, less than 245 dinars or 29.17%. So it's the same reduction. For the second child, it was 25%, it was 1,050 dinars, and now it's 7.5% gross, it's 744 dinars, or less by 306 dinars, or 29.14%. And for the third child, so far there was 30% on this amount of 4.199. We got a sum of 1,260 dinars. Now the proposal is 9% on the gross basis, we get an amount of 893 dinars, less 367 dinars, also less 29.13%. The preliminary checks refer to payments, where the basis is made up of data on earnings paid for March of the month under these assumptions, means that the same amount of fiscal intervention remains. In July, all these payments may be increased if they increase total earnings. However, this will mean a decrease compared to the profit average, according to current laws. If the government reduces fiscal interventions (I mean taxes and contributions to profits), then this fee will have a relatively greater reduction. Only if the government increases fiscal arrests, means if it increases the rates of taxes and contributions, then this giving will also increase. It would be natural for these reasons for the government to amend its proposal and to maintain at least the current level of compensation for childcare users. In any case, the issue of the country's demographic policy should, without great delay, be on the agenda of this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6570	Mrs Matkovic, Minister of Social Affairs, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6571	I'm sorry that I have to go back to the question of gross and net wages, or what the profits are now under the law. You didn't calculate carefully because you didn't include in that account what's now under the law of profit. That's why your percentages aren't good. Now, let me tell you how you counted, and let me tell you what's legal now. What's under the law of profit, which by law now goes into profit, by gross principle -- so we're not talking about basics for taxation, which is something else. We're talking about what profit is. In the law that was passed last week, profit is now what was once a net profit, plus what you got as a salary, plus a warm meal, a regression, etc. and plus taxes and contributions that fall on the employee's burden. It's a profit now. And you were counting like this -- the net profit is 4,000 dinars (let's round), so you added 100% of the load to that, so net to the net, so you added a hot meal to that, but you first added all the loads. This goes into the insurance base, the insurance base goes into all the loads, but not all the burdens are coming in. So that's two different things. In this profit, now, in order to get a total profit, we have to read carefully in the law what is now profit - profits are earlier net earnings, plus a warm meal, and a regress, plus taxes and part of the contributions that fall on the employee, and you added everything that falls on the employer's burden, so now you dropped that profit, as you formulated it, much higher, and then of course these percentages give you other calculations. So that's the difference. Please, we have the law. I've read what profit is now several times. When we do that, you'll get another bill. Now count it that way. We've got the official messenger, so we can easily see it. Well, there's no replica here, so you have to recalculate first, because you didn't count well. [[Employee requests the right to reply.]] And the other thing, it won't shrink, because in three months, we predicted it indexed by the cost of life. So we can talk about it, whether it's small or not, I totally agree, we can talk about it, but we can't talk about it getting smaller according to this, because, you know, it's supposed to even get indexed by life cost indices in that period, and then we're going to look ourselves in the eye, so we're going to say what happened. Thank you. [[Employee Radojko Petric seeks the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6572	You don't have the right to replicate, the minister explained it nicely, they all misread it, they miscalculated it, you didn't mention it. In accordance with Article 96(3), I am not giving you the right to replication. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law was dealt with by the Assembly and the Government in 1992, 1993, 1994, 1996, and today is on the agenda. The main law is the one that cherishes the future, the future can be cherished if the present is full. In order for kids to be fed up today, there's a lot to be done. It's not enough just to provide the milk that today has enough because there's no one to buy it. They don't have the mother's money to buy it as a product. This law has brought the previous situation to a zero state. I thought the proposal for a new law would be a final solution, not only in part and formally. We need to solve the profit system here. It's all about making money. How are we supposed to move on, get our present and future mothers to smile a little when the mailmen come to them? My view of this law is that it must be completely revised urgently and that the state or DOS is going to follow our families and mothers who are raising our children, both professionally and scientifically. Mothers in our country are unacknowledged economically. I guess one day someone will realize that mothers are an important factor in this society. Replacement of these principles can only bring a slight shift. The level of law under this law remains the same as that of the previous law. How do we move forward when we know that inflation and the consumer basket are growing every day by the old and new laws. The equipment the mother needs to get is no progress in society. Here and in this place as a state, we allow ourselves to be cursed by various sects, which then perform as benefactors. All of us as humans remember from the youth of people and scenes when we were rewarded by someone at the time, that is, reviling us. If the law on maternal contact had the desire to act, there would be no such pre-mentioned sects, which act through money. The nature of our population depends on this law as well. We know that our birth rate is negative, and we're doing nothing but formally changing some members. The European Union advocates our youth projected or targeted, but negatively for us. Social care for children must have reform relations because we are now on the verge of having children as a population having an even more negative picture of them. The rate for agricultural households of 7% is low. The village should be treated as an ambience where the state must invest. For the past 50 years, the village has only been exported. I guess now is the time for the country to invest in the village, because imagine a village where the state doesn't invest slowly shuts down life in it and calms down. By derogating our villages, we will also derivate the cities. You promised as DOS to improve the situation in this area, but none of it. That's what you can see from this bill. I propose some of the elements to improve population policy. It's just a piece of the proposal. The state, when a child is born, needs to carry out its obligations on time and on a regular basis, to increase material aid, to provide credit for the apartment or house. According to some analyses, the following criteria, i.e. four basic categories, necessary for the state to implement to improve the population policy: tax policy measures, social policy measures, material aid and support measures, measures to build awareness of the need for birth. Mom and Dad, I want a sister or a brother. There's a lot more to get out of this study. I was intrigued, and I particularly point out: tax policy should regulate single households of the fertilized age and families without children. Introduce taxes on pets, dogs and cats, if they are kept in the apartment, and these funds are directed towards children. The essence of the social care system for children can be expressed by the following definition: the social care system for children is socially and historically defined, publicly regulated, guaranteed and funded assistance, provided by the state to families with children and children, in order to ensure social security, to meet children's development needs, to level the conditions for their development, as well as to help the family achieve its reproductive, protective, educational and economic functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6574	The word is made by MP Dragan Colic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please, MP Stevan G. Gudurić. What is it, a day off? It's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6575	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members of 80th and Article 114, the question of quorum and the question of carrying cards with them, since in one part of the 27-card hall on that system there are 15 MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6576	In line with the Rules of Procedure, on the proposal of MP Stevan G. Guduric, please let us determine if we have a quorum for work. I realize we don't have a quorum, so I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. [[After a break.]] Please determine if we have a quorum to continue the work of the National Assembly. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please take a break, which I am giving until 15.00 hours, the presidents of the parliamentary groups agree on Friday's work. I'm taking a break until 3:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6579	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I think it's a good time for the citizens of Serbia to understand why or because of which this assembly cannot work properly and properly. Mr. President, you should at least say once what kind of MP groups we're working on in such an unserious way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6580	You should talk about what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6581	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a specific status of a child, early childhood differs considerably from other periods of man. The impact of the environment on child development plays a very important role, and strong emotions in children are very pronounced. The children are very vulnerable and self-centered. The biological deficit is seen in the gradual development of child's psychophysical abilities to meet the needs and training for life and work on its own. Adult care for children is necessary over a long period of time. Because of its psychophysical characteristics and characteristics, the child is much less than an adult resistant and sensitive to the negative influences of middle factors. Childhood is a period of establishing social relations and mastering their emotions, with influence on attitudes about themselves, others and the world in general. As a social group, childhood suffers from the influences of all social factors, but they stand out: family, institutions of education and childcare. The legal status of children implies a relationship between the state, parents and children. I believe that social care about children deserves special attention from MPs and a serious approach to this problem. It is this legislative body that plays one of the key roles in the adoption and proposal of laws to be implemented in practice. Whether something will be improved in the sphere of this social category will depend on the absolute majority of DOS MPs, many of whom are intrinsically acting. I am not convinced that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry in the field of social care for children will bring the necessary seriousness and quality of approach to this problem. I am afraid that this government, which runs a highly analytical policy, which is prone to affairs, scandals, plots and intrigues, will bring about changes in all important spheres of society, and therefore the social care of children will become nothing but an empty theory. Without a serious economy and economy, which should also provide the necessary resources with which the social care of children would indeed be, this segment of society will not function successfully either. The DOS's hope rests on the aid of all those countries that have participated in the senseless bombing and destruction of our country, and the consequences of such engagement are that many children have been killed, sick, and many of them also have mental disorders, unfortunately. Your hope rests on the financial assistance of those who have ruined our children's childhood. I don't need the happiness of the whole world if the price of it is an innocent, shed child's tears. Because of your failed policy, many innocent children's tears will be shed, and what social concerns children will be, they will show the time ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6582	The word has the People's MP Toma Busetic, followed by MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6583	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, cannot help but notice that this bill also presents a certain limitation of rights, that the solutions offered, in any case, represent worse solutions than those already given in the previous law and that these amendments and additions do not make any visible progress. On the contrary, I think this is going to get worse, and it's about one very sensitive area, the area of exercising the right to children's and mother's allowances. First, when it comes to Article 2. The amendment proposal refers to Article 19, paragraph 2, which reads: "The maternal supplement is 30% of the average net earnings per employee of the Republic's economy according to the latest published data by the Republic's statistical authority". The change is that instead of 30 percent of the average, this is now deleted net, puts 9% of the earnings per employed in the Republic on a gross basis. In Article 5. Amendments and additions to the proposal shall be amended in Article 29. The law in which the child's allowance was: for the first time it was 20%, and now it's 6%; for the second child it was 25%, and now it's 7.5%; for the third child it was 30%, and now it's 9%. I think, regardless of what we've spent a lot of time here and we've been doing what's more favourable, but it's clear, a few days ago in "News" a statement was made by one of the most important DOS experts who admitted, when we talked about the Labour Relations Act, that 6 net earnings is more favourable and greater than two gross earnings, that 12 net earnings is more favourable and greater than 5 gross earnings. So, I'm deeply convinced, there may be no drastic difference as words were here, but it's not the same means either. In any case, I believe that the previous solutions were more favourable, not considering that the cost of life has increased significantly lately. However, my essential proposal concerns Article 27. Before that, I would remind you that when I was talking about the Employment Act and the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act, I wasn't talking about health insurance, but my essential proposal was to bring the lowest basics into line according to the average wage in the municipalities. The proposal did not go through, it did not come to an understanding, although it had one quite solid foothold. For example, the average salary in the municipality of Blace is 1.900,00 dinar, the average salary in Beli Palanca is 1.100,00 dinar, and the average salaries in Belgrade and Pančevo are over 5.00, and, for example, in a small municipality like Kosjerić, the average salary is close to 7.000,00. Now, when the Republic or state needs to take it, it takes it equally, puts it all on a republican average and makes its revenues come true. The explanation was that it should be done because, simply, it is the Republic's income, it is very important areas, such as the health sphere, pension insurance, etc. However, here we have just now come to the conclusion that, when it comes to giving the Republic and the State, we are now making a difference. The differences are made in the fact that, in the payment of a child's allowance, we are bound to average salaries in municipalities, so Article 27(2) says - "If the total monthly income per family member is made for the last three months in the previous year, up to 50% of the average monthly net earnings (and net is deleted) achieved for the last three months in the previous year per municipality employee, i.e. the city (this is deleted in the economy), in which the user has residence". There's the whole point of this very positive proposal, because it's a very sensitive issue, the question of paying off a child's allowance, of going to a republican average. It is also true that there is a corrective factor here, so it is said, when it comes to the most developed municipalities, the average child's supplement cannot be higher than 10% of the average republican, as in undeveloped municipalities it cannot be less than 70%. But this solution is also about 40% of the difference between developed and undeveloped municipalities, and I don't think that's right and that my proposal is quite correct and involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6584	The word has a National MP, Bora Stanimirovic, and the next is MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6585	The respected presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected Mrs Matkovic, is the same situation as with other laws. On several occasions, I mentioned that it was certainly better, and we heard it from the minister today, that we are adopting, and it is likely to be the adoption of new laws, so we will address this problem now. This draft law, which is on the agenda today, is a law that has been mostly adopted since 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995 and 1996, and we, whether or not, have to admit that we haven't had any consolidated text that could somehow be more transparent, rational, with fewer members. Last time I talked about that Family Act, which actually has 219 members, where a man can't handle it because there are about 15 changes and additions from before, and if we add those tens to the same situation in this law. That's the problem, and I think it would be good, and that's already announced by the government, that the new law will be, that we're going to clean up a lot of things, but I'd like to pray that at that time, when it comes to this law, about the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Social Care for Children, those things that we haven't been able to solve in years. Or maybe they're better solved, it's relative, it can only be talked about when this law is passed and when the practical budget is so that we can work things out faster, but what we're imposing today is certain that it's the fault not only of this government, but we're wrong about birth from war, since World War II and 1945. Such a demographic policy in general was that we took very little care of the birth rate and we came right into the situation we are in today, which is that the birth rate is lower in all Serbia's midst. It used to be one region, eastern Serbia, and today it's all Serbia. Let's just say we have a case where the number of children in elementary school is shrinking in our facilities, in our centers, in our central schools, except for some periphery where young people come in. This points to exactly our policy that we have been running practically for years, and that's one of the reasons why we don't care, because of our material position. Who cares about kids today? We have now and before, and especially now with this law introduced taxes on all children's products, on school supplies, on textbooks, and then surely bring parents into a very difficult situation. We did a partial emancipation of women years ago. We have practically hired a woman, but we have not freed her from following jobs so that she can devote herself to both family and business, except for preschool institutions that are relatively well solved in Serbia, but all children are not taken care of. In primary school, we have a situation for children to stay in two or three shifts, not to have a whole day's stay at school, that parents have to practically use that time to solve those problems that are necessary. Secondly, it's practically a partial solution here. You see, this Article 19, namely this bill, consists of these three parts, like any proposal. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Care for Children, the second part is an explanation, and the third part is a review of the provisions of the law whose amendment is proposed. However, there is no synchronisation, there are many members who appear in one and not in the other. The third one appears, and the first one does not suggest that the professional service that was doing this law could not have ended or had no time to do so properly. I said Article 19(4). The law. "The nominal amounts of the mother's allowance, in accordance with point 1. - 3rd of this member, determines the minister responsible for the affairs of social care for children." However, if you look at this position in general, item 1 and attitude 2 in particular, the maternal supplement is 30% and 9%, depending on whether it is gross or net, on the average net earnings per employee in the economy of the Republic (or in the Republic). So, the minister practically has nothing to solve. It's an old law we rewrite again. This article does not change and remains the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6586	Mr. Stanimirovic - time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6587	Just another member. We have another member here, and that's a 27 that's going to change. But starting from this member, who also insists on gross and net, these are changes. But attitude 4 and 5 is exceptional from the provisions of Article 1 to Article 3 - the rights to allowances have children, etc., then the first child, the second child, and the third. That's for both child's allowance and mother's. We're acting practically like Chinese. A few 15 years ago, the Chinese passed a law -- since they had a great talent before that, and they had already crossed a billion people and in a desire to reduce the birth rate, to somehow make it possible for the state and society to live normally -- who had introduced the obligation of "only one child". If the family has one child, then they can get an apartment, they can get a job, they can get some benefits. If he has two kids he can get a job, but he can't get an apartment, and if he has three, he won't get anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6588	Mr. Stanimirovic, please, you moved to Chinese law in the seventh minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6589	You see, instead of doing the opposite now, we're now stimulating three and four, five kids, which is why the fifth child has no right to a child's allowance, to a maternal supplement. Do we have so many children that we can flaunt as others, not tell the Chinese, as the chairman of the grudges when we mention the Chinese? Just two more attitudes to see.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6590	I'm sorry, Mr. Stanimirovic, I have to warn you because you used the time to discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6591	How about half a minute? I know a lot of people break that time for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6592	The discussion is limited to five minutes, I warned you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6593	Let me finish. The height of the supplement, extremely, is for children, for the first child 6%, for the second child 7.5%, and for the third and for the child of Articles 26, paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of this law 9%, I really read about how children are born.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6594	The word has the minister of social affairs, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6595	Since you asked me to answer, I think we'll leave it for discussion during the break and compare the previous law that you've passed and now this one, so let's see. All that you've read is a bill of law whose amendment is proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6596	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Dragan Markovic, and the next is the MP, Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6597	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all these laws that the Government has sent so far, I think they're harmful, if we remind ourselves that they'll start to apply from June 1st, before we increase production, before the farmers get on their feet, and we stick our hand in their empty pocket. We from the Soviet Union expected, when the agenda comes, such as today's agenda on child care, that this is a very important national issue for the Serbian people, if statistics tell us that Serbs will be a national minority in Serbia over 50 years. Our government has firstly abolished the Ministry of Youth and Sports, also where young people are concerned, and today we are reducing the percentage of children's supplements. Our minister says it's not a cut in percentage. It is a reduced percentage, when mathematically recalculated, 50% less will receive family, or workers as child's supplement, than they have received so far. We of the SS were hoping that this percentage would be higher than it was in the old law, we know that wages are very low, that families can't have children, but here today, you see what kind of law you're about to adopt. We even asked that those mothers living in the country, and their only activity is agricultural production and have three children, receive one average personal income so that we can improve ethnicity in Serbia. We were looking for families who escaped from Kosovo and Metohija here in Serbia, that these families that have three children also receive one average personal income because we know that very hard they live and that 90% of the families from Kosovo and Metohija, who have escaped here in Serbia, live somewhere as tenants. We have a law waiting for us, gentlemen, on privatisation, where 60% of the extra labour force will at least be, I don't know where your parents, who will be declared an extra workforce, in their company, from where they will support their child. The SSJ will not support this law, but hopes that the resolute minister will ask the government to give special benefits for children, for those families where we are looking as SSJ for children to be born in Serbia, for those families to have special benefits and for this government to start giving something to citizens. All these tax rates introduced by the government so far, these tax rates have been increased. Once again, let me repeat, we're pushing our hands into the citizens' pockets, and the pocket is empty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6598	The word is Mr. Petar Jojic, and the next is MP, Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6599	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for the last 50 years, if our society had paid more attention to family and children, we would not have the current situation in Kosovo, and we would not have a familiar situation in southern Serbia, in the municipalities of Medvedja, Presevo and Bujanovac. Ladies and gentlemen, only one piece of information - in 1918, Albanians or Shipara were in Serbia at 118,000, and now there are, you know, how many. Staying in Kosovo several times, both officially and privately, on the streets was a small number of Albanians who were not gray and who did not give birth. That's what the statistics showed. Our society has a great responsibility to pay more attention to family and children than it has done in the last 50 years. Compared to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements, Article 5 provides for amendments to Article 29, where the first child was 20% earlier, and now 6%, for the second child was 25%, and now it was 7.5%, and for the third child there was 30% earlier, and now it is estimated 9%, I think that it was necessary to stimulate the family, stimulate those parents who wanted to have more children. I would say, if you would allow me, that I would be in favour of the child's supplement being paid not only to the first born, second, third, but to every next, born child, if we want to be natal, if we want to reduce the white plague that is evident in Serbia, is especially characteristic of the AP Vojvodina area. I'm the tenth child in my parents' line. Now the question is asked, and I believe that would be asked by all you ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, if a child's supplement were given for three children, and for seven not, there would be a great injustice in my opinion. There are many families in Serbia who have more children, especially when it comes to the fact that mothering allowances and children's allowances have been disbursed, for legitimate reasons and known situations and circumstances in which our country is located. There is not enough justification, nor can this bill be defended, as it is now claimed that these amounts are sufficient on their own because they will be regularly paid, unlike they have not been paid on a regular basis. This does not give a valid explanation, nor can anyone accept that this is the right explanation that this moment requires because this issue must be given exceptional attention. I know it's very difficult for our country right now, but at least in the pre-election campaign, the current government has made promises to fight against the white plague and to fight for a better position of children and more regular payouts, and higher, and higher amounts, mother's allowance and child benefits.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6600	Time, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6601	We should not allow the village to be extinct, we should not allow, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is well known to all of us, that we have a school in Serbia that teaches two or three children, and what are the consequences? The consequences of just one long-standing bad relationship with the family and with the birthright. The unemployment that comes, and privatisation, must have even more serious consequences in this area, and therefore it is a great responsibility for the new government to show that it needs to solve problems, to help increase children's accessories, to increase maternal supplements, to increase the population in Serbia because there are hundreds of legitimate reasons for this historic moment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6602	The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6603	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Social Care for Children, which is on the agenda today, is another one in a series of bad laws that the National Assembly has already adopted. If these weren't tragic and devastating laws per citizen of Serbia, these laws could be treated as some entertainment park, which passes through a tunnel of horrors and horrors, so we are welcomed by individual ministers with their projects, fearing us. Suddenly, Minister Djelic appeared, so Minister Milovanovic appeared, so Minister Obren appeared, and so the ministers were working out, and at the end of the tunnel we see only one cowardly area and we do not know what awaits us there. Maybe he's cutting his head off. So, this bill on the agenda today is another law that the SRS, i.e. Her MPs must attack as worse than the law before this law. It is now evident that we have justifiably attacked the budget which was unrealistic and the words of the MPs of the majority MP group, the DOS group, who has admitted here that there is no more money for what this law provides, or what rights are given, for the users of this law, are actually saying that we were absolutely right. He says there's no more money. There is no more money because the government has determined that the budget is mainly used by those things that are not in the interests of citizens and Serbia. The concern of the citizens has proved through these so far deadlocks, and the greatest concern is shown by this law that you are proposing today. So if we don't have more than one dinar, here's one dinar we'll give the kids, so what can they buy for that dinar -- what do we care? So today, it would be good for the minister here to say what can be bought for the money he offers them, those users who should be entitled under this law. According to this percentages that are here, which are justified by the alignment and redefine of the profit categories, they're actually just throwing dust into our eyes. We're interested here in how much money it is. How much is the total amount of money that was before, which will now be compared to the same users. Also, I consider this law to be shrinking, precisely because of these redefine percentages, mothering allowances, help to equip newborns and child support. So if the percentage of the minister here turns into a total sum, and it's justified here that it's not a decrease, that it's even left on the basis of this base of the same sum, then we can be satisfied. However, we believe that she cannot justify it. First, in addition to redefining the base, or percentages, many things have happened. It happened that those things for which the user of the funds would use went to heaven high. So the prices went to the sky high and that percentage is no longer adequate to the real and real value, for which the user of these funds can buy the same things as before. We therefore believe that the minister should have adopted a more compact consolidated text of the law and that such a law proposes to the MPs of the Republic Assembly. Also, it is very noticeable here, in Article 20, that the right to help with newborn equipment has every mother who has three children, i.e. no more counts for any child who will be born later, which means that parents who, after a third child, except in exceptional cases, say here - the fourth child, in some parts of the municipality where there is a negative rate of natural origin. What does that mean? This means that each parent will consider his child born after the third or fourth child to be thirteen. In no case does DOS authorities serve honor and therefore we believe that this concern that you now care about our children will be very dangerous, especially before all these laws, which have been passed before this, will affect that even on paper these proposals will not survive, let alone in reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6604	The word has a minister, Mrs. Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6605	I'd just like to explain one more time if that doesn't seem clear. So in this last part, where it says, a review of the provisions of the law whose amendment is proposed, so those are the provisions of the previous law, those provisions only change where the net profit is mentioned. So, we've only re-coordinated those laws because of the change of previous laws. So, of course, there's a reason to talk about all the other elements, but they weren't the subject of change now. That's exactly how it was in the previous law. The same applies to nominal amounts specified by the minister. That was all in the previous law. Now, with these changes, these provisions are being amended and in those provisions, only what is associated with profit. Where there was net profit now is profit and these percentages have changed. So there is reason to criticize those other elements but they were not now the subject of change. The other thing about what you said, the only thing I can say to the end, of course, since it's in the bill of this law, it's contained in Article 6. So the real amount of these supplements is left unchanged in the first three months, because we predicted them to stay with the Life Cost Index. That's why he's going to stay realistic, that's how it changes, so what the family got in May as a child's supplement, the same amount increased to the extent that life costs increase, will be in June, July and August. So that's what we predicted as a transitional provision. Why didn't we stay at the Life Cost Index till the end? Because if we want to keep the real value, then first we need to review what you're saying -- what it is that we're providing to that family, and whether what we're giving it through these protections is whether it's that amount or some other amount, but of course, we need to look at it and look at the possibilities of the budget. Then we can say that the principle of protection implies that this family can do it with that child's allowance, and then we tie it to the cost-of-life index, so that it stays on the real level. That's an explanation. So what we can absolutely say is, because of the indexing of the cost of life, it's going to remain realistic, and that's what's in this Article 6. It's a bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6606	The word is Mr. Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6607	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, the discussion, for me, for this very important item of the agenda, which you have shortened from 10 to five minutes, and I expect you to cut it very quickly to 27 seconds, is very problematic. The minister is trying to explain to us what we, like, don't know, but that's good too, unlike Minister Milovanovic, who doesn't know what he's explaining. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Care for Children is another one in a series of proposals stemming from the already legendary tax package of Minister Djelic. As you set out nicely, you will be looking very quickly in this assembly, normally, when you cancel the transfers, changes and additions of textbooks for preschool teaching and their alignment with the Tax Package of Minister Djelic. It is true that in one period, it was late with children's allowances, but I must remind, first of all, those who were not here, those who were not in the country then, that this country was beaten for 90 days, that this country was bombed, that we had been under sanctions for 10 years, that we had wars and an environment of war in this country, and only economic and political conditions were the cause of non-payment of these obligations. To remind you, even before the war, we fought a war against the NATO Pact in our country, we fought with the Shiptar terrorists in Kosovo. A great deal of money went to preserve the Serbian people, and all of these were the reasons why they were late. On the other hand, since you've been in power for almost eight months now, and it's time for you to start keeping your pre-election promises and definitely going to fight the white plague, to stimulate young people to get married, to have children, to have jobs. As far as I'm concerned, you're all doing it the other way around. You've abolished the Ministry of Sports, and, knowing your capacities in the ministries, it's a little short for the Ministry of Sports to join the Ministry of Industry. We started 100,000 apartments in Serbia. (President: Please return to the topic. The theme is social care about children, we talk about children, we talk about apartments. To make children, you must live in an apartment. To get back on the subject, we started to increase the birth rate in Serbia to make 10,000 apartments annually. The state is behind the project, and statistics say Serbia has fewer children. Normally, when you came to power, you stopped it all, interrupted it, and now you're going to sell these apartments to Serbs, probably at square meters in Paris or London. But good. By amending the law, or by proposing to amend the law, we are once again entering that area called the gross net, where you are now removing 30% from the net, you are giving 9% gross. When this is translated into Serbian from the language of mathematics, it looks like this - by October 5th, the salary in Serbia was 80 marks, the addition was 24 marks. Today, according to your statistics, there are 140 marks, plus 12 marks. As for other donations, so also the mother's allowance, it was before -- one average salary, so 80 marks, now you're giving 30% of the average salary in Serbia. It's those 42 stamps. I am definitely sure that you and this bill will cut the birth rate in Serbia anyway, so please, when you propose some new laws, take care of this country, because after DOS, someone else will come to power and the Serbs will certainly live better. Finally, just to remind you of those six billion, people asked me yesterday -- did you report anything, is the money coming? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6608	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6609	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to return to one law that we have passed in the previous days, in order to carry out only one comparison, and I am pleased that Mrs Matkovic is here, and I hope she will answer the question that arises from this comparison. It's about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. In that law, which was passed a few days ago, in the position of the 4th amount of maintenance was defined as 7% in terms of earnings. It was 15% earlier, so these changes reduced it to 7%, compared to one patient's income. So that's the minimum amount per one supported person. The maximum amount was reduced from 50%, compared to net earnings, to 22%, compared to the new term, compared to the new fixed earnings. Therefore, it is said that this reduction is about twice, and the reason for this reduction is actually, as the promoter says, a redefined category of earnings. I'll take a little time to read the reasons for the law, in which it's all well explained. He says: "In these amendments and additions to the Law, some of the provisions of this law are in line with the changes in the system, which define the rights of employment. In line with the redefined category of earnings, it is necessary that certain provisions of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations be brought into line. Since this changes the basis, which serves to determine the amount of maintenance, for those who, under this law, exercise the right to support, it is also necessary to execute a reduction in the parameters used for the calculation, in order to achieve a neutral fact of the law in financial terms." So these changes were made to achieve the neutral fact of this law in financial terms. The same explanation goes with this proposal, which we are just considering. The proposal also says that the basis has been increased, as profits have been redefined. So it's a gross profit, and there's also a reduction in the parameters that are used to calculate censorship and the level of law, in order to achieve a neutral fact of the law in financial terms. However, this reduction now looks a little different. It's not a reduction twice anymore, it's three times. In fact, the maternal supplement that has so far been 30% compared to net earnings is now 9% relative to profit. So the reduction is over three times. The right to help equip newborns so far was one average net profit, and now according to this proposal it is 30% of the average earnings. So, again over three times, that's a reduction. The child's allowance for the first child was 20 percent of the net earnings, and now 6% of the profits. (From the O.R.: Bruto. Sir, from the profit. So the reduction's almost three times. For the second child, the supplement was 25% compared to net earnings, and now 7.5% compared to earnings. So it's over three times again. For the third child, it was 30% earlier compared to net earnings, and now 9% compared to earnings. Over three times again. I ask Mrs Matkovic's question: how in one law do we achieve neutrality in financial terms by reducing the rate by twice, and in the second law, we achieve the same neutral fact by three and over three times? On the one hand, by adopting the Transport Tax Act, everything relating to children, diapers, children's food, child's equipment, clothing, shoes, etc. has been taxed. In order to achieve budgetary effects, some of the rights that users in this country have will be replaced. It has even been said that these rights will be in some larger amount. Justifiably, after this data, I claim that the rights of children under this law will be reduced in relation to current rights, and given these differences in these two laws that I have compared here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6610	The word is made by Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6611	You're right when you look at it that way. The thing is, it's here besides being changed that it's not about net earnings anymore, it's not about net earnings anymore, it's not about employees in the economy of the Republic, it's about employees. There, as we know, is a difference, it's lower what's in the economy than the average. So this is where the second coefficient is applied, rather than the one that's been applied in the Marriage and Family Relations Act, and that's where you pay for what's your personal income. So, no more business, no more business. So that difference conditiones that the relationship between these coefficients is actually different. I'm saying, we're still here, and we made sure that those receipts didn't fall, with this indexing of the cost of life, and I told you, I said, we'll be there in August to look ourselves in the eye. If these calculations, and since they were made based on historical data, were not good, then we will depending on what happens in these three months change that. So the difference is that there was an earlier law here in the economy, and this is now at all, and we know that this average is like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6612	Thank you. Mr. Joca Arsic has the word, and the next person registered for the discussion is the MP, Mr. Vlasimir Budimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6613	Your Honor, Madam Minister, I have to join those speakers who said this law is restrictive, because it is. It's limited to two basics. First, according to the rights given on the basis of the census, i.e. on the basis of the average, and when it comes to child benefits paid, as proposed by this law in the previous three months, i.e. in the last three months of the previous year. The profit remained at 50% of the current net earnings, the average for the previous year in three months, and this profit is now increased by Ms. Minister's argument as it goes from net to gross. This reduces the number of rights users. If you have increased the price by an amount that is 50 or 60% higher than the amount that has been in force so far, calculated on the net salary, it means that the number of users of that right is decreasing because the number of users of the right is narrowing down. Otherwise, there is an increase in costs, i.e. the growth of average personal incomes, and if this was in October 2,930 dinars, it is now 4,400 dinars. So that part already increased by going from net to gross, that's another amount more. So we're going to have a smaller number of rights now, not to elaborate it any longer. When you recalculate all these rights, whether it's a maternal supplement, whether it's a child's supplement, whether it's other donations from this sphere, not to count them, it's going from 6% to the average gross, or the average profit, call it gross or whatever you want to get to about 9%. And it's the right thing to do. The rights are two and a half to three times smaller. Take it and simulate some gross profit of 5 or 6 thousand dinars, as Mrs. Minister, explaining to Mr. Radojko Petric, said that this gross profit by reason of him is not that big. It means that if it is less gross than Mr. Radojko Petric claimed, then those rights are lower, if relations are applied from 6, 7.5 and 9% to those amounts. It does not seem, therefore, that these rights are equal or equal to or slightly larger, but are from 2.5 to 3.3 times smaller, and when it comes to these single aids for the newborn child. So this relationship is three comas three into what's calculated, not to deal with numbers. The correct claim, the only one, is that Article 6 will valorise children's supplements for June, July and August of the month, and according to this rise in the cost of life. But that amount will drop drastically in September of the month when these rates are applied. Calculate, simulate whatever model you want, that's drastically less. What I'm saying stands in reason. Please, the implementation of this law does not require additional or larger funds, but will be able to be provided from the same fund of funds if these rights do not grow. If they grow, then they'll definitely need extra funds. This is how they are. It can't stand a theory here that we need to fuck these rights because we won't be able to serve them, if we said that the budget is two to three times bigger, depending on what part it relates to the previous year, and those rights were late in the previous year. It is said here, and Minister Djelic and others have said that some of that debt has been serviced and this government has been serviced, and therefore there is room in this budget. The government claims it spent a third less in this first quarter than the previous government did. Then it is certain that there is room for what has been done with this bill to return to previous relations. Let these rates be recalculated either to increase or to comply with existing rights, which these users of this law have so far enjoyed and had. I think it's correct, that in such a way we have to think, or this law to withdraw, or to adopt amendments that are given, which will go in this direction to make these corrections and to implement them. There's one more thing, and that's a technical problem. I don't know if Mrs. Minister has entered the technique of making a solution to children's supplements. Here a new right is established on the average salary of the previous year, the last three months, that salary has been paid in net amounts for last year, for October, November and December. Who, and in what way, what coefficients are they going to valorize and apply now gross bases based on which to further establish the rights of the child's allowance? Anyone who's brought one single solution to the right to a child's allowance knows what it takes to deliver documents and make such a solution. On the basis of this law, I claim that such solutions, if not intervened by other decisions, or regulations, or explanations or otherwise, will not be able to be valid or good.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6614	The word has a folk MP, Vlasimir Budimovic, and the next one is MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6615	Dear MPs, the Honorable Presidency, I took a break to consult the base. Actually, I consulted my grandchildren. I suggested two solutions. One solution was to give them 100 dinars each first. They're not much of a mathematician, but they figured it out. The second proposal was to give them 200 dinars in two, two and a half, three years or maybe even bonds. What do you think they're up to? It is clear to you that these are laws that are complemented and which represent some transitional provisions and legal basis until the moment when the right laws will come into force, and this supplement for me is normal and acceptable. I answer to the situation in which we are and who we all need to be aware of. I'd only have one proposal, I'd allow myself freedom so I wouldn't come forward and then in the discussion of the members, I'd put on one proposal when it comes to mothering and child support when it comes to families and a child distracted by development. My proposal is concrete: no changes are made in this area. We have about 150,000 disabled children in this country. I agree that they exercise some of their rights under other basics of the law, but I am asking for your support, that in the bill they enjoy, in Articles 19 and 29, one status that applies, in particular, to children without parental ageing and children of single parents where they "increase by 30%", and that is to add only to children who are distracted by development.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6616	The People's MP Miroljub Veljkovic has the word, followed by the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6617	Dear People's MPs, I once said from this pay phone that this government has shown that it is extremely lax, I will use that term when collecting revenue for the budget. This government has taxed everything that could be taxed. It has shown exceptional imagination and creativity in inventing new taxes and taxes, both for the economy and for the population. However, the government has shown that it is extremely stingy, it has shown that there is a great deal when some of these budget revenues are due back to the people, i.e. budget users. You took care of people's sweats, you domestically took care of your ministers, your agencies, you bought armored cars, you blinded cabinets, you provided money for failed projects, for example, in school, in privatisation, etc. That's absolutely not where you sprayed it. But that's why you've drastically reduced the severances in case the worker loses his job, you've reduced the affordability to the unemployed and, in the end, you're reducing children's and mother's allowances. I agree with Mr Ced Jovanovic that the Law on Social Care for Children should not be used to score cheap political points. Normally, I rarely agree with Mr. Chad, but this time I'm completely in agreement. It is immoral to use children in political struggles. However, you have used your children abundantly in your election campaigns, but that is a matter of your morality. What the government has done through tax laws and, in particular, through this law directly affects the population's demographic policy of this country. If one government for the first time, I say, since World War II, introduces a child food tax. taxes on juices, on diapers, on children's clothes and shoes, taxes on school notebooks, pencils and rubbers or taxes on medicines or those child's syrups, and eventually reduces already acquired rights based on a child's and mother's allowance, that's already the intention. I repeat, that's already intentional. It's already a demographic policy run by this government. I am absolutely certain that most of you in the DOS parliamentary group are not willing to further drop in the Serbian Corps. I doubt that's your wish. Normally, that's not where I count this group of you who advocates legalizing marriages of the same sex. They're children, that's clear, they're not interested. They're interested in something else. That's why this Christodulo, where he is, is why he's not in the O.R. Prove to us that you are responsible people, prove that you think of the national interest, by supporting at least the old solution that defines the percentage level of child and maternal supplement. Let's make the government act patriotic and run an active population policy. In front of our country, it is simply an imperative to increase the birth rate, especially at this historic moment. Madam Minister, don't be stingy here. Don't convince us that the level of these revenues will remain the same. Let's say that the level of these revenues will remain the same and will be higher. What if it's bigger? Press, step on Mr. Djindjic and Djelic to find reserves in the budget. It is absolutely certain that there are huge reserves in the budget and even higher levels of these funds for these purposes. I'm sure you can do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6618	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, followed by a folk MP, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6619	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another law that agrees with certain provisions of this law with amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act on the redefining of the profit category. Since this increases the basis used to determine the degree of rights in the field of social care for children is necessary, it is necessary to reduce the parameters used to calculate censorship and the level of law, in order to achieve the neutral fact of the law in financial terms. That's what it says in the light of this bill. It is also said in the explanation that this law does not increase the rights financed from the Republic's budget, but only carries out their budget, given the change in the basis for the establishment of the right. We don't increase rights, we agree with that. In nominal terms, these rights may even be the same, as Minister Matkovic interprets them. However, in real terms this is significantly less than the right, because if the maternal supplement was about 1,300 dinars before and so much still remains, can the same amount of goods be bought for these 1,300 dinars today, like two or three months ago. We forgot that you taxed everything and everything, from needle to locomotive. You left out the needles and left out the locomotives. Children's dressing room, which is inadmissible, books, school supplies, medications, food and everything alike. That showed how much care you have for your children. If we increased taxes, if we increased our contributions, if the budget was three times higher than last year, then it was expected to find a little more funding for children and mothers in that budget. It seems to me that at all matter of childcare is so sensitive, given the nature that we can't be satisfied, the appeals come from all sides, that it deserves one more subtle approach and we could expect that the government had time for these three months to deal with this problem a little bit more, take the opportunity and, in the context of this bill, to make some more changes that would come in favor of motivating birth. I'm sure the material givings and the material support of parents are not the only stimulants of parents to decide on a larger number of children, but it's precisely the matter that the government has to deal with, so find some of the solutions to how to deal with the white plague, which is essentially the subject of this law. It is true that it has been delayed with the payment of many rights, but the rights remain, they do not go out of date, they must eventually be paid. What was not paid and was not out of objective circumstances. Now these circumstances have changed significantly, your promises have been that money will be enough to solve many social problems, so we rightly expected you not to remain at the same level of giving, but rather that these payments to users are significantly higher. Taking care of children means taking care of children and families, from birth to completion of regular schooling. So many ministries would have to be interested in this issue. However, yours is now the most, because within your ministry there is the former Ministry of Family Care, but also the Ministry of Education. However, when we know who is at the head of the Ministry of Education, then we can imagine how much that can be expected of him and how much of this problem is at all relevant to him, except that he's carrying out his mentor's duties, ending school programs, as it suits the West. The battle against sects, which are of a kind of evil, should also be the subject of the government's interest and your ministry at all. What I've noticed is that the number of users of the child's allowance will be reduced, given the amended Article 27, point 2 and, if I'm wrong, I'm asking you to deny me, but I don't think I did. And the argument that you gave to your colleague Zlatan Jovanovic, who has very well noted that the arguments differ when it comes to marriage and family law, is unsustainable because the gap between the average salary in the economy of the Republic and the average earnings in the Republic is about hundreds of dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6620	The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6621	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I'd like to speak to Minister Matkovic. I expected from you as a minister in the field that we all, who are parents, are a little bit different, and we are more directed to this problem, to attend the debate from the very beginning. You came, you apologized, and you think it's okay. It may also be acceptable that there is a legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia that is above the Republic Assembly. What is the organ above the Republic Assembly? What is this reason for you to demean this house and our messengers? What is it for you above this congregation and who was more important and caused your delay? Your colleagues are getting that organ. They don't get it for me, they get it for you. I would ask a representative of the parliamentary majority not to go out for a pay phone at least for this part of the agenda, but for the authority of someone who buys diapers, books, children's dressing room and all the other children's needs, not even to mention medicines for children who are not in public pharmacies, so parents buy them in private pharmacies. I ask the Minister to make publicly available information as to the child's child's child's allowance, if the parent's legal fees are child's allowance, so that it is precisely in figures expressed, and not round the corners like this. I don't understand you, let alone citizens who listen. I note, you laugh, you laugh at the voters who chose you. I note that children's diaper costs 15 dinars. If each day a mother uses two diapers, or buys a baby, it is 900 dinars or 30 marks in a month. It's just one part of what a baby needs. What about resources that are much bigger, which are needed for preschool and school children. I ask the Minister, once again, to state in response a concrete example of the exact amount calculated. From the ladies in this congregation, I expected that as mothers, they would strongly oppose such a destructive law and not be allowed to suggest such a thing. But I can see that they chew gum, they read the newspaper, they bite on something, and by the way they get some vulgarity, they mate with the noses of the clouds, what are they proud of? Really, DOS is the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6622	The word has a minister, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6623	This is the amount for children's allowances, which were, according to the current law, for the first child 578 dinars, for the second child 723, for the third child 867 dinars, and increased amounts, for single mothers and for children without parental ageing, means what is also the law so far, and this one is 752 for the first child, 940 for the second child and for the third child 1.128 dinars. That's, I guess, what you wanted to hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6624	The word is Mr. Nikolic, third caller.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6625	In order not to use harsh words, Madam Minister, I must tell you that someone is telling the truth: either that's what you said about the speaker, or the one who wrote the explanation of the bill. In the light of the bill's proposal, it says that the amount of child allowance for the first child is 316,25 dinars. You just told us it's 400 and some dinars. I have been putting the amount of the supplement on the table for a few days now, please find another explanation of the amendments of MP Bozidar Vujic to Article 5. A bill of law, in which you gave those figures. I'm trying to find out what's true here and I can't determine, so it would be really good now, either you, or whoever prepared this law, who recalculated it, to finally go out for a pay phone and tell what's true. First of all, by calculating the amount of child allowance, the amount of the material supplement, I definitely find that the average net earnings for 2000 - 1,582 dinars, and that gross earnings are estimated for 2000 - 5.387.02 dinars. That really can't be justified, because 20% of the average net profit, which is a child's allowance for the first child, in the explanation you gave us on the amendment - 316,25 dinars. You put into 316,25 dinars, 20% of net earnings, with 5.387.20 dinars with gross earnings for 2000. Never in this country have 1,582 dinars net, given 5,300 dinars gross, never. That's 337%, never gross was 3.37 times the net. He was up to 1.26, dropped to 0.96, but he was never 3.37. It sounds like a harsh argument that the proposaler predicted the same nominal amount, counting not to put the users in a more unfavourable position of the mother or child allowance. You know, if you provide the same number for children's allowances for 2001, like the one that was in 2000, you've brought into a more unfavourable position of users and mother and child benefits, because today life costs are at least twice as high as the time until the 5th of October DOS came into power. You really owe us one explanation, one rational explanation of what net earnings are in 2000, what is the amount of the first child's allowance: what you said about the pay phone or what it says in the law, what is the estimated gross earnings for 2000, so it says here, what is the estimated gross earnings for 2001, or what is the percentage of gross earnings for 2001. I have to tell you that it's inhumane to predict a budget, at least twice as big as last year, and to keep the nominal amounts of supplements to children as they did last year. Then we rightly ask you: where will you spend twice as much money, if not here, where is the most important? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6626	The word has Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6627	What I read, these are the amounts of these rights now, and what it says in the explanation, these are the amounts of rights that are average, how much these rights averaged during the year 2000. It was all about wages, right, in law it was about wages. As wages have changed, so has the amount of these rights changed, means child accessories, maternity benefits, etc. So when we look at what the average amount was, here, that's what it says -- the average amount of mother's allowance for 2000, that means last year, and what I've been reading now, that's the amount that's being paid now. When the new law comes, so in May the month is calculated according to the current law, means in May the month according to the net earnings that are in May. And then we say, and now, for the next three months, it's going to go towards the cost of living index, then we're going to see once again the ratio of gross and net, because this is all that's calculated based on the previous year, so there's no problem. But these amounts that stand in the arguments, now we've changed to amendments, that's all the average for the previous year. This is what pays off now. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: What is not enough for last month, but for the previous year? So that we can have months, so that we can calculate that coefficient. We have to apply some longer period of time, not just in one month, because then it might happen, and you know what the situation is in one month when you're calculating something, always that moon can be exceptional because of something, and then those relationships don't reflect in the way that they actually, in a longer period of time, would exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6628	The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, followed by Stevan Ž. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6629	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for child protection between the two world wars, it is characteristic that it was mainly about the care of orphans, especially the war, then abandoned, poor and poor children, and that it was far behind the socio-political thoughts of that time. After World War II, social conditions, i.e. state of consciousness, are characterized by the enthusiasm of the ideas of justice, brotherhood and unity, the governments of the working class, the deterioration of living conditions for all, the elimination of exploitation and the enthusiasm of mass, expressed by general readiness for the rapid restoration and construction of the destroyed country. For the past 10 years, childcare has been characterized by the difficult conditions of life, the embargo, the state of war involving the entire SFRY and the bombing of the SRJ by the NATO Pact. We witness the great mortality of children and the great sterility of both sexes. The specificity of the psychophysical status of the child is an indisputable fact. It implies that childhood, especially early, differs from other human life periods. Differences are manifested in the existence of a biological deficit, subjection to environmental influences, complex emotions, expressed sensitivity to intervening between him and the world, vulnerability and accentuated egocentricity. This condition requires that the child depends on the ageing of adults over a long period of development and, at the same time, to reach the highest level of development in the whole living world. The humanistic understanding of the nature of the child and its overall development points out that the child is worth it in itself, that it carries positive development potentials and that it is a factor in its own development, socialization and education and that it is an active, interactive and creative being. The family is the most important for the growth and development of the child, as well as the achievement of primary socialization. The reduction in family size has dual causes: on the one hand, the decline in birth and fertility, resulting in fewer children in the family, and on the other hand there is a narrowing of the core of the family group made up of parents and their children. narrowing down the family household and reducing the number of children leads to a concentration of important family functions around children and a family turning towards the child. Children's protection is a form of social protection of children, i.e. social security, which, based on solidarity and mutuality and development needs, provides and balances essential material conditions for the development of all children, as well as the basic social security of children. The primary purpose of childcare is to provide basic development opportunities for children, especially from socio-materially threatened families, whether their parents work or not. During this NATO crime war, many children were killed, many children lost their parents, many children were left with great consequences of life. This government, and particularly Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, bombes Serbia, bombes kindergartens, schools and sends poor uranium through explosive missiles that say "I love you". The man who hates the children and descendants of this country most is this man, who should be in prison with his accomplices, Batic and Mihailovic. It's a shame, they rule this country today. The system of social care for children is conditioned by social opportunities, ruling ideology and politics, as well as the material opportunities of the social community. It's really the subject. As part of an institutional environment, it has a direct impact on the quality of everyday life of children and parents and can contribute to the relief of the burden of parents, and thus the realization of the goals of population policy, which are basically transformations and which include the following hypotheses: 1. In his development, the system of social care for children changed content, form and organisation and adapted to the objectives of population policy; 2. The system of social care for children is so much more fulfilling its social function, if it has a greater coverage of children, better meeting the needs of the family and if the childcare benefits are stable, etc; (President: Time). ) 3. Care of children for the use of preschool services (clave and daycare). In the end, I would say, an important note means that a young man has his job, solves the housing problem, enters the marriage community, means true love, birth, and then the obligation of society, the fulfillment of the social community towards parents (a child’s supplement and various kinds of help). Second, tax exemptions on shoes, clothes, school supplies, etc. Security of student accommodation and scholarships, the process continues to revolve around.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6630	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6631	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are talking today about a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Social Care for Children. It's clear that it's mostly consistent with the principle of gross earnings, but we've already been outsmarting and proving about a few legal projects here, gross and net, which is larger, which is not, starting with the severance for technological surpluses and through some other legal projects, and it's also proven to be 30%, so you cut to 9% equal to what they've been getting before. I don't think that's true, especially if we consider another aspect, which is that from that October revolution to this day, the price and salary ratio goes to your expense, and you can go to the store and the market and see that that's the case. Those aren't empty stories. It's, unfortunately, life. It is clear that the question of children is much more complex than mentioning only a maternal supplement, talking about compensation for the newborn's equipment and child's supplement, and I hope that we will finally, at some of the next sessions, get some reform law, very promising. Well, after all, at least in this area that will solve these problems much more complexly, even if, frankly, in the time in which we live, there won't be only that material moment giving birth to fewer children, because people lived at some point worse than this, worse than we did, so they had more. I'll make a joke, I hope my colleague doesn't mind if he promised his grandkids 100 dinars, maybe he's a bad grandfather. No matter what, for 100 dinars, a bad grandfather is in whatever party he's in. Just one more thing to say. [[response to unheard comment.]] We are here at these sessions, considering these tax laws, heard about this -- that now the circle of those who are taxing has spread, and even if we accept something that doesn't stand, which is that those who have so far, either as companies or as individuals, have settled their tax obligations in time, that they will be less taxed than some who haven't paid, and that all together in mass will bring more money. Then it's a miracle we haven't seen in any of these legal projects that someone will exercise more rights than before. At a time when everyone was oppressed, when they had been standing on a navel since birth, so they couldn't live like the rest of the world, although the big question is where they got all the things they didn't have when they couldn't live like the world, and at least on this question the children didn't give up on that rule that, as you say, it was the same thing as before. We in opposition say it's less than before. Which in this case, at least, was not done, so that you gave the right bar in this area more than before. Because I'm saying, if that tax base spread, not only on this part, but on what we've been talking about here for weeks, then it made sense at least in one segment, and I think that children are the first segment to experience some improvement, then it certainly made sense to talk here today about a realistically better position than this law is foreseen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6632	The word has a minister, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6633	So if the rights under the law haven't changed, and if everything that was right under the law has not been paid so far, even though I'm not going into the reasons why, but the fact that it hasn't been paid, then in this budget, like I said, it's going to be paid off in time. I hope that's how we do it. I'm such a man, I never say-- firm, until it's the past. So in that case, if the rights remain the same, because they've never actually been paid, and now they pay off, it's a lot more than it was. As far as I know, there were about two billion in the previous year, and now it's scheduled, if all the rights are paid regularly, to make it more than 10 years. We've paid off all the bonds this year. That's about 17 million marks. We're planning to pay towards these families, and I hope to inform you with pleasure when it's realised, but in August, we think we'll be able to go with another extra payment, so when we put it all in this year, which from the budget, which from the donations, these families will get more than they've received in the previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6634	Mr. Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6635	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken several times today, using the right that I have as a representative of the parliamentary group, which, using the right to replication, tried to point out the obvious and incontrovertible difference between formal and established rights. It is true that, among other things, existing legal regulations have defined the rights of users of the funds that belong to them on this basis. But at the same time, we also have the obligation of the state, which was obliged to provide these funds, 30% of the net salary on behalf of a child's allowance for a third child. However, this right has not been applied for two years, for reasons that are in themselves clear. They can be interpreted, on the one hand, as an incompetent economy for such a type of burden, and on the other hand, a problematic relationship, first of all, with a resolute ministry towards the obligations it was required to settle, because by analysing the final budget account for 2000, you will find that much greater funds have been spent unintendedly than the funds planned and not realised, to meet the obligations of the resolution Ministry for Family Care. What I'm trying to say is that even in such a difficult social state, the funds were not spent the way they had to be spent. They were spent to a good extent unintendedly, even in a resolute ministry. You planned about 10 billion dinars on behalf of those expenses, not counting on those 10 billion dinars of funds that the Ministry of Finance allocated to a single-aid fund. In the past year, it was singled out on behalf of the exercise of rights in the field of social care for children 2,470,000,000 dinars, and on behalf of funds for family protection and family planning 13.980,000. This is almost five times less than the planned funding for 2001, funds that are not existing, funds that exist and that are regularly paid out. So if something was a practice so far, which was a practice of fictitious and applied law, today we can say that we live in a society that can bear obligations on behalf of the state, which are defined by existing legal regulations. On the other hand, I'd like to say that there is no high child's supplement, which can cover the needs of a family. Something like that doesn't require having a family. This can even be concluded by a superficial analysis. But what makes a stable family is not just a child's supplement. It is, for example, a permanent job, it is stability in the economy and it is finally, on the one hand, something that is so tragic in itself, that it does not deserve a comment: the fact that 90% of people under the age of 30 do not have a regulated working relationship and has no settled housing issue. In such a society, a child's supplement cannot in itself change anything fundamentally, but the state is obliged to say how much it can, and since it says how much it can, it has to respond to these obligations. We have made it clear how much we can, we meet the obligations in accordance with existing legislation. We have indicated that this is a practical adjustment of two principles, which in itself has no intention of reducing the rights of the family and I think that in the family, in the time ahead, I believe, by passing a budget bill in 2001, we will show that we have spent these funds responsibly and that, to the extent that we have been obliged under the law, we have met our obligations. If we can talk with arguments and facts, it'll be good, but I think the arguments and facts of population policy in society can't be interpreted by the policy that we're having at the moment, even the existing legislation, because it wasn't in itself bad, but it wasn't applicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6636	The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6637	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are often in a position for this speaker to hear an argument that belongs to one specific act and which is unfortunately used by the current government trying to make arguments, which is not available for example. to former ministers who led these ministries, so to speak, to downplay and reduce the results of previous governments' work. The subject is this law, which we are now considering, but obviously, it is coming out of this topic and the data that needs to be said. So, all of you here in the O.R., and even the viewers, you should know that the new government has done one of its first and core activities by releasing a large number of inspectors, not from budgetary control, because there were few inspectors in budgetary control, according to their estimates, but employees at the PDO, or the NBJ, with the sole task of finding embezzlement, corruption, abuse, so that the government could even write itself that someone had embezzled, without the investigative judge judging, raising charges, etc. In this whole business, one non-gentlemanic thing must be said, which is that the people who led the former ministries, in a position not to have a mild idea of what these inspectors were, by the way, complaining that they were forced to do this job and repeatedly to go through it, to find mistakes, wrote -- although the inspector's finding says who was responsible for the job and stands eight days to point out the inspector's report, where who and what was wrong, and that, possibly, that report is changing. So, these ministers that were talked about and just before at this pay phone, they didn't have a chance to see the inspector's findings, or to take advantage of the right to submit further arguments and documentation within eight days and to cancel the findings. On my personal case, I'm in a much better position, because I have a very correct gentleman at the head of the Ministry of Science and Technology, I could do this, with one fingertip, to remove 90% of the complaints, because the man delivered the report to me. Therefore, so much about how much it takes in one special way to accept an argument, which belongs to special sources, and so special, that the people that are concerned and whose work is being talked about, did not have the opportunity to see such an argument. As far as past times are concerned, we must say again, since most of the arguments for new laws are based in past times, not according to the new law, but honor of the exception, Madam Minister, who is really very argumentative about his law here, we must remember, however, that we have had very difficult years behind us, but that we have had a different approach to this same assembly's policy-making budget. This assembly here, in its earlier term, was heading towards as low a budget as possible. And why she had this tendency -- such a policy was socio-economic, so that it could be less burdensome for citizens and businesses, so that the economy, pressured by the embargo and pressured by difficult conditions, could produce and increase production, and thus improve the standard of citizens. So, we have here essentially a two economic policy collision -- the formerly called Parliament's policy, which, by voting the budget then, insisted on the lowest budget, that the fewer interventions would be from the economy and the population, so that the economy could be launched and that the population would have a better standard by starting the economy, in the terrible conditions of sanctions, when you had to export with the Macedonian firm and that you paid the Macedonians 200 million dollars a year that price of exports, or imports of repromation. Here, I'll give you a few examples -- these budgets essentially amounted to 7.6% of Yugoslavia's social product, just 7.6% and 8.6% of Yugoslavia's social product. This parliament, the DOS majority and this government have been defined for another policy, and the government's policy and the majority influence in the parliament is that now the 14.7% in the income side of Yugoslavia's social product are only through taxes and excise taxes, plus the rest. Well, the citizens need to know, we might be able to catch up with the lags. I don't like it, I have four children, although my third child doesn't use that social right to take an extra, because I've estimated that it's wrong for a man who works so well and earns so much money. But we were late for social payouts and don't let me explain why we were late. We had to, because we were trying to start production, because we had to repair the country from NATO aggression, 19 billion dinars went away at a time when the budget was 32 billion, 19 billion went to rebuild the country, for earthquakes and other categories. Therefore, the government's policy is to double the handling only through taxes and excise duties, plus the rest. The specific data is 14.7%, and then there's the story of the bridge and the keg. So, before the government took 7.6% of Yugoslavia's social product and I must say, because of other activities, it did not meet social obligations properly. This government takes 14.7%, so it'll fill something up. How? The more he takes, the more he returns, the more he makes sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6638	The word is by MP Vladimir Garcevic, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6639	Mr. President, Your Honor, it is my pleasure that you are the Minister, not to be offended, not to swear and to stick to the framework of something that is the law. I mean, if that were the case, at least the replica in that sense of insult and all would be far less in this congregation. But for perhaps 15 or 20 days, we have not cleared up any laws grossly and netly. Now here I'm trying to prove that these rights are going to be smaller. I'm not talking about whether she'll be able to make it happen, those rights. Maybe they won't, maybe they'll be bigger, and maybe the economic situation improves, which every single one of us as a man would want. However, it was fair to say here, the new government is unable to secure that degree and it tends to provide less, but it will be more regular payment. If that's it, that's how I understand Chad. If I got it wrong, I'm letting myself have that chance again. But let's go over some data, so I'm going to suggest a concrete solution to what needs to be done to never discuss it again, not tomorrow or the day after. We appreciate the following, I'd like to ask you to hear, in March the data is published, the wages in the economy are 4.199 dinars, and the total economy and out of business, some middle salary is 4.262 dinars. I get the gross the following way: when at 4. 262 we add 1,050 dinars of warm meal that was in March of the month, and to that we add another 350 dinars, how much is taken monthly to give a regress for an annual vacation, when I add that amount to someone now to say the net inos is 5,662 dinars. In order to get a gross amount, there is a need to add taxes and contributions and all that goes. Please, in order to achieve the same amount of 1.260 dinars, as much as it takes for a mother's allowance, for March, that's 30%, we need a gross amount of such personal income or salary, not to say gross amount, to get used to pay, should be 14 grand. You take 9% on 10 grand is 900 dinars, it takes 14 grand to reach the amount of 1.260 dinars. In the March month bill, let it be calculated, and I'll suggest that it be calculated later, we won't be confused, I'm not an unfair man, I want to get out of here, I want Serbia out of here without talking about the opposite data. (Gordana Matkovic, from the scene: The Mother's Supplement is 867 dinars. ) So I took a variant if I were to have a contribution ratio and tax ratio 1:1, then that would be to add this amount of 4.262 to the same 4.262. When we look at it now, and we're supposed to get to 14,000, we need to add 8.338 dinars. Therefore, I ask you, as Minister, that you, neither must I, nor must I, I am not an economist to know these things, the services must, for days, we have been arguing here, asking Chad as president or head of a parliamentary group, that tomorrow, on March of the month, until 10 o'clock, deliver us in writing, that please, in writing for the March month, one variant, another variant, the MPs, let us see, that when we leave the assembly, honestly, we never speak again. That, I hope, will please the MPs. We could have done it before, so we wouldn't have waited for this law. I want to add the following, de facto that, as far as... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Irrespective of the child's allowance, affected by all the 20% taxes that were introduced, and where your range is not yours, the question is how much you could have influenced it. Which means, I propose to the Assembly, and that means the means of information, that tomorrow they offer tables from the official authorities for March by applying members of the new law, meaning amended when it comes to salaries and net amounts. From that we will see whether the rights are truly reduced or not. In our opinion, they're not, and we're going to clear this dilemma up, not just here, but in all the legal regulations that we've been arguing about so far. This will remove the public's concerns about why we appear several times in this area. I expected those rights to be... (President: Please bring the end. )......................................................................................................... Something bigger, and it doesn't have anything, so it means we have to be satisfied to stay on this. That's my suggestion, and I hope you accept and meet us tomorrow at 10:00 with the data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6640	The word has Mr. Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6641	I'm using the right to a replica. I was mentioned by a fellow MP. I would ask all the MPs, regardless of whether they are members of the government or the opposition, to look at the analysis of the 911341 budget for 2001. To get acquainted with the government's intention and MPs who supported the budget, to provide funding of three billion dinars on behalf of the social fund for one-time assistance from the Ministry of Finance domain. To take a look at the same budget for 2001, Analytical Conto 911350, from the Ministry of Social Affairs and to get acquainted with the fact that we plan to single out 10 billion dinars on behalf of rights in the field of social care for children. That's a total of 13 billion dinars versus 2. 470.000,00 plus 13 million in the 2000 budget. How much difference does that make? I think you'll find it easy to conclude. Every time I reasoned, I proved to those who claimed that the planned budget was three and a half times larger than that achieved in 2000. So this time I want to show you that this is almost five times the amount in the planned funds on behalf of the reconciliation of the obligations that the state has on that basis. So that's the first step in the argument that I think you'll be ready to accept. Tomorrow, of course, they'll give you a comparison analysis for March of the month, so you don't have to run away from it. This is the true expression of our intentions: 13 billion dinars versus 2 million and 470,000 dinars, plus 13 million on a second basis, so that's about 2.5 billion dinars versus 13 billion dinars. You see what this relationship is, and how much it is, a picture of our willingness and determination to take ourselves seriously and responsibly towards this kind of species, not problems, but of the obligations that the state has to fulfil.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6642	The word has a People's MP, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6643	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when the 2000 and 2001 budgets are at stake, the bill is next -- the 2000 budget was 32 billion dinars. In addition, there were direct dedicated funds, both for the reconstruction and reconstruction of the country and for the earthquake-hazarded area, all the way to the aid of the PIO Fund, of 19 billion. So the government has had 32 billion dinars in the budget and dedicatedly separated, for consumption, 19 billion, on certain issues. It's the 2000 money story. In 2001, you voted in your majority for a gross budget of 129 billion dinars, and I think we still have about 8.5 billion more of that budget during the adoption of individual amendments. That's about 137 - 138 billion dinars somewhere. That's why the gross budget is said to be almost four times higher, so if you take this 19 billion-dollar restructuring and rebuilding of the country, after an earthquake, this year's budget is much higher than inflation was in 2000. Now we get to what's a pain in the ass. While DOS inquisitors are now chasing hundreds of thousands or millions or two million unintended ones, who are baptized by inspectors, but forget that according to the Public Service Act, the one who proposes a financial plan for the current year is the one who has the right to assess whether consumption is in line with the financial plan, and as a rule, the financial plan suggests a resolution minister, and the consent is given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's what we'll talk about next points. We now, instead of chasing someone for 100,000 paid there, and in the opinion of the NBJ inspector, who by then neither saw the government of the Republic of Serbia nor knew how the government was working, and he was called to find something, we have the fact that in this budget of 137 billion was removed 19 billion, and that was put away in that way, we have just heard the predecessor behind this speaker, that the finance minister has three billion dinars. It's just said -- the social program. By what law did he get the right to dispose of those three billion? Has the Serbian Parliament discussed the criteria under which these funds will be shared, the rights and obligations that must be borne by those who compete? Has anyone discussed this? No one debated it, but the government moved to Minister Djelic's three billion, and then the government itself will by means of its own regulation to assess the criteria for the distribution of these funds, what are the priorities? That's what the government will do beyond this assembly. The congregation is always put in a seal somewhere. It's the same thing with railroads and roads. Seven billion dinars have been removed from the minister of traffic and communications, and the minister is the one who will spend those seven billion dinars. By what law, by what criteria, by what priorities? Do you want me to talk about four billion that are being removed from the Minister of Mining and Energy? Careful, the Minister of Mining and Energy has removed four billion dinars and writes to help develop the automotive industry. Who will determine, by what criteria, by which priorities will one, the other, the third, the fourth, the fifth company spend the four billion? Who's going to determine that? Minister of Mining and Energy. Will this congregation decide? No, I don't. So 19 billion dinars, three billion dollars in finance, six billion in traffic, four billion in mining and energy, and I don't know where else the rest went, it's tended to be that the minister or government alone, making regulations without this assembly, is discussing 19 billion. What's the difference? The 19 billion from the year 2000, spent on rebuilding and rebuilding the country, were spent under a special law passed in this assembly, the money spent on an earthquake - threatened area, spent under a special law passed in this assembly. And how is this 19 billion going to be spent? There's no special law. It is determined by the minister, determined by the government. Ministers from the former government are being chased, using their citizens from the National Bank of Yugoslavia, by 0.2% of total budget spending from their jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6644	Mr. Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6645	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in accordance with the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, adopted in this assembly on 30 March 2001, are planning funds, but not in the way my predecessor mentioned. Namely, within the Ministry of Mining and Energy, and from AK 91,000 to 911190, there are no four billion mentioned by Mr Ivkovic. So, days of further analysis, but I will remind you, as regards the law and law that the Ministry of Finance will be spending on, I will tell you that the 2001 Budget Law is a very clear statement of intent and that intention supported by the parliamentary majority in the Assembly, for the establishment of the Single Aid Fund, under conditions and by the criteria set out by the Government, which MPs will confirm or criticise when we discuss the final budget account in 2001. Whether we will then be the government or the opposition, the final account is always submitted, and there is a way in which social resources are available and whether they are spent on purpose or not. No matter what you think about those who have to be responsible for spending these funds today, as much as they do, there are laws in this society, and we will respect those laws. The funds that the Government, supported by the DOS, will spend, are the funds that are precisely set out in the 2001 Budget Law and not a single dinar outside the law will be spent unintendedly. There are no 19 billion dinars hidden somewhere, no hidden funds mentioned in my predecessor's performance. I call on him to analyse the law that we have voted here and show, say, at the Ministry of Mining and Energy, where those four billion that are intended for costs on the matter, let's say, which the Ministry of Traffic was obliged to cover. There's no such thing. There are subsidies in the economy, and it's very clear what the economy thinks, who thinks, and how it spends its resources.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6646	If it can't be a replica, make it the third call. In 2000, the budget amounted to 32 billion dinars, and besides that in 2000 outside the budget, but it was purposely defined, according to the laws passed in this assembly, 19 billion were spent on rebuilding and reconstructing the country, for flood victims, for earthquake victims, etc. In this year, my dear gentlemen, you have adopted in the Assembly the budget of, I say, now that amendments have been adopted, of 137 billion dinars. You have increased the burden of the economy and of the citizens. By adopting that budget, you're in section 6. - The Ministry of Finance and Economy, projected a three-billion-dollar single-aid social fund. My science and technology ministry for the whole year has had 770 million dinars. It had a budget adopted, it had a ministry's financial plan, and now here with Minister Djelic you've predicted three billion dinars, you've called the social fund for one-time assistance. There is no law by which these funds will be spent, there are no priorities adopted by this assembly, there are no criteria. It was all left to Minister Djelic or the Serbian government to decide beyond this assembly on spending and three billion dinars. I remind you, the entire Ministry of Science and Technology in 2000 had only 770 million dinars available. The budget went through, the law was working late, it passed the Assembly, everything went through the Assembly, four times smaller funds. FONAS cost about 570 grand. I'll get the paperwork out here when it's time. That it is fortunate that you, dear gentlemen of the Democratic Party, support the activities of the fight against drug abuse, alcoholism, and sects, not that your president of the city government is betraying Jehovah’s Witnesses to an ice hall, driving children out, instead of developing themselves in a healthy mental state, Jehovah’s Witnesses are holding a convention there to get the money, but I will do the same after this speaker. Furthermore, the Ministry of Mining and Energy, I apologize to Mr Jovanovic, divided 10. Position 60, 911-190-subsidies in the economy with four billion dinars, so the Minister of Mining and Energy has been given the right to spend under the notion of subsidies in the economy of four billion dinars. That's six times more than the Department of Science and Technology. There is no law adopted in the congregation, considered and adopted in the Assembly on the basis of which such money should be spent. Everything is left to the will of the minister and the possible government of the Republic of Serbia. Whether Philip Kljajic from Kragujevac or IMT from Belgrade or Vital, I don't know where he'll get the money from. Who's gonna spend that money and four billion? Who's gonna get that money? The Serbian Parliament did not consider black under the fingernails. The Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications - Position 63, 911-190 writes itself - traffic programs, 7 billion dinars. Where will those seven billion dinars go? On the basis of what legal project will 10 times more money be spent than was spent at the Ministry of Science and Technology? Who brought this bill? He's gone. Who's spending the money? Minister, possibly someone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's the end, that's what I'm talking about, and the Inquisitor's team, we'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6647	Mr. Ivkovic and Mr. Jovanovic apologized sweetly here about the budget, which is not at all on the agenda. I'm looking at Madam Minister, she's looking for what you've been talking about in her bill, and she can't find anywhere. Here you go. Now if you tell me you're talking out of the agenda I'll be really surprised.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6648	Mr. President, honourable fellow MPs, of course, Mr. President, that you won't be surprised, but I think you should have reacted before this last appearance of Mr. Ivkovic, because he is a seriously injured member of 98. Rules of Procedure on the work of this Assembly. I am sorry that Mr. Ivkovic has a guilty conscience or is uncomfortable with what is happening in his former ministry, but I assume that, as he already says, he will have the opportunity to re-analyze this budget for what he did as a minister in the previous government. If he didn't have time to study it then and read it, then he really doesn't have to force all of us to listen to it again. Now I want to say this, for example, since five times this is about three and a half, three, two, three, four, times the increased budget. Yes, Mr. Ivkovic, it's a bigger budget than last year, but you also keep forgetting to say that all the funds that were in the various billing accounts this time are in one place. It is that we had sanctions, that we had bombings, but even before sanctions and bombings, there were delays in pension payments and child benefits and all other debts. What is needed, it is and obviously, is a strategy to repeat something after this speaker on several occasions, which is not true, and when something is repeated, it really comes to the idea of the truth. In that sense, I think that even if once the Rules of Procedure is broken and abated from the subject, which I have done in part now, the next time really must be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6649	Is there anyone else who will point to my violation of the Rules of Procedure? There isn't. The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic, followed by MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6650	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us another law that proposed so-called. The expert government, which is essentially a restrictive law, and the restriction is so much higher as it relates to social categories of material supplement social categories, baby equipment and child care supplements, where there should never be any restrictions, and this law introduces restrictiveness and can be explained and explained in many ways. In his statement, the minister repeatedly points out that the rights remain the same, will not diminish the rights, this law does not change existing rights etc. That many times, and now I'm going to try to explain why the minister had double arches in writing the proposed law, where one right is diminishing, and these are the rights where the state needs to get rid of the bag, and on the other hand, that right increases in the capacity of those who can use those rights. If we implement this proposed law, the reason for the law being passed, the amendments to the law are so-called. gross earnings. However, the analysis is easy to compare what the minister wanted to say and how in this case he wanted to protect the state, not the citizens, i.e. users, those who are required under this law to receive certain funds. In an old solution to this law, it is clear and beautiful to see that in Article 19, each mother has a mother's allowance, and that mother's allowance is 30% of the monthly net profit, and the new proposal has reduced it and now it's 9% of the earnings. Furthermore, in Article 20a, the right to help a newborn has every mother for the first three children in the family and then in the next position - the assistance from the position of this member is paid once and is one average net profit per old law solution, and after a new 30% of the profit. All of this would be nice if the next article didn't have a completely different solution for children, and that's that those who have the right to use it will be much less because that 50% of the average net profit stays here, just deletes the net. So this is being solved on a double, so the number of those who have so far enjoyed the legal use of those social categories in the next period will be drastically reduced. The only question is whether this reduction will come as it provides really enough resources, so that these rights are reduced. What is characteristic of all this time from the adoption of the budget to the adoption of these laws, when it comes to the income side and the law that needs to solve the revenue side of the budget, these solutions are such that they are restrictive, by burdening the citizens of our country more. However, when there are laws on the agenda that need to solve the problem at the expense of this side of the budget, then it happens not to behave the way it acted when it was basically the income side. I expected that with major procedures, with a larger income side, if nothing else, if everyone is cut off from workers to employers, at least this social category will be protected, and these are the ones that are being cut off. As we read in the press today, those bonuses have already been paid for April, according to a deputy minister, 645, 806, and 967 dinars for the third child. This is where the minister pulls out all the other data, so all the time the assembly parliament's work, we're shooting, who's right, and who's wrong, and what's the fact, here, I'm ending up, then a lot less resources will be for the users who are being determined by this bill. Another information, this is that we have previously taxed everything that is necessary for the development of children, means, from diapers, through food, clothing, shoes, school supplies, and that was another reason why this law, not only nominally, remains the same, but it is also smaller, but that this category, to increase these figures, to make these amounts larger and to allow at least those categories one improvement from this new government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6651	The People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic has the word, followed by MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me start with Article 2 of this Law, where the percentage of 30% is replaced by a percentage of 9% and the words "net earnings per employee in the economy of the Republic", in the words "earnings per employee in the Republic". We can agree here that income per employed in the Republic is greater than earnings in the economy of the Republic, because in non-economic activities, that average is higher, not much and not significantly, but it is still higher. However, 9% of earnings per employee in the Republic cannot be greater than 30% of net earnings per employee in the economy of the Republic and we have already calculated that several times. It's not something significant or less, but it's still smaller. And it doesn't matter what it is, it's important that a representative of the ruling coalition says that this government, at this point, can do so much and can't do it anymore. What matters is he says he won't lie to the people. That's what I say. However, the people were easy earlier, the people were easy in the pre-election campaign, when according to representatives of the current ruling coalition, when sources were found, not oil, but honey sources, and turned out to be taxed, and milk, also taxed. I understand that Madam Minister here defends a legal project that does not concern social care for children directly. She's trying to defend the budget, and it can't be defended. If, by any chance, I had been in charge of your portfolio in the past government, I would have resigned at the moment, if they would have forced me to put my signature on tax laws that tax everything children need to use, and even diapers. From that moment on, surely, I wouldn't be a minister who would care, among other things, about children. Taxes and contributions were, therefore, introduced in such a way that everything regarding the child now costs 20% more. If we take them as nominal, amounts, let's say they're equal, they're actually much smaller. It's going to be even smaller because a gradual correction of the brand is being made, not to mention the gradual correction of the dinar, but I'm talking about the gradual correction of the brand, because it's obvious that even though the dinar is a means of payment, in this country, we're correcting the mark. Besides, that's understandable. If the money's tied to the stamp, and the stamp's devalued against the dollar, then that's understandable. We're the only country in the world that's been able to devalue the brand. For an amount of 800 dinars, let's say that 800 dinars, that we're not now entering some smaller numbers, three, or four, or six months ago, could have bought significantly more things than we can buy today. Today, for 800 dinars, there's nothing to buy. It seems to me that the government has consulted the base that Mr. Budimovic has consulted, but that with this base something is not very special, it has hit. If my grandson would ask me, in fact, if I were to ask my grandson if I'd rather give him 100 dinars now or give him 200 dinars in two years, he would say, "I'd like my grandfather to die." That's the kind of grandfather that's gonna give me 100 dinars, that's not what I need.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6653	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, and after him Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of the amendments and the addition of this law is to change the basics, as well as most of the amendments to the laws that we've had to see, that's to go from net to gross and we've heard the explanations given by the Minister, which is that the nominal value is going to be the same, so that the percentage is going to be reduced to gross, add a smaller percentage, and that nominal value is going to be the same. However, there is one uncertainty, when we adopted in this assembly the budget of the Republic of Serbia, five times more nominal funds were allocated in this item than in the previous budget. Then we listened to the explanation, if I remember correctly, and finally, there is a record, there are stenograms that, as much as the revenues in the budget have increased and how many times, the heights for those users of these budgets will increase. Now, we're coming into a situation where in a short time, we can see that someone's not telling the truth. I have no doubt that the minister has explained the amendments and the additions to the law, but it is of nominal value. Let's not talk about real. Whether the real value will be the same as in the previous period -- that now man can't judge. It can be based on some parameters, cost of life, additions, whatever this category needs, but let's see the nominal value. If the nominal value remains the same, what about that story that will increase the amount of funds in the budget. Either it was a step away from that story or through these amendments and the additions of the Law one framework was created, as it always is, so that MPs would not see it, since it was formerly established to go, in fact after the budget, that in a certain period of time when forgetfulness is possible, they would change and supplement the budget. So that's where you have to explain yourself. If it's five times nominally increased, why aren't it five times higher? The percentage is reduced, the nominal value is the same, and whether it is real, that the minister can respond. Secondly, the change is in the part where the average economy is said to be moving to the average of the Republic. The average of the Republic is generally higher than the average in the economy. That means it goes in favor of this, that it could go up. The third thing, most importantly, in the SRS's opinion, and we heard more than once yesterday from this pay phone from DOS representatives and government representatives that your people chose to change. What have you essentially changed in this law? Nothing. You haven't changed anything, gentlemen. A fundamental change would also be a change that would be approved, not only by all MPs in the Assembly but also by citizens, if a fourth child were to be allocated funds. Imagine the example that these amendments and additions of this law cover. It's a newborn package. The value of this package cannot exceed 80 marks. He can't. There's baby equipment and hygiene kits. To take the most price, it can't cost more than 70 marks. Is that a great expense, a great burden on the budget, to single out a fourth child and say, yes, gentlemen, these are essential changes and additions unlike the previous government, which only treated the third child, we introduced it to be a package for the fourth child. In the end, gentlemen, the real question is not only what honesty is in this, but how realistically it is projected and budgeted and changes and changes of laws. Because what it means is that we're really planning on how long we can last. That story isn't worth tomorrow if it stops paying off an allowance or if the cost of life jumps enormously. Alignment or calculator indexation of life costs, it's a famous story. You know, take three institutes, three official state institutions, and you'll see that their different indices are the cost of living, and the government said in all the legal projects it had nothing to do with it. It will take data from official institutions authorised by the state. So it's not very reliable that we rely on those indices that the institute will give us, which you say are competent to give either average income or increase the cost of life.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6655	The word has a minister, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6656	I think you know who's in charge. So if we don't trust him for wages, we can't even trust him for the cost of life index. So either we believe or we don't believe in data. I would remind you only that in the previous law those rights you speak of for the fourth and every next child already existed. Because it's said to be a third child from a family with three children, according to this law, is considered a third and every next child in the community with a negative rate of natural origin. Unfortunately, since nothing is being paid for Kosovo now, it is 97% of the municipalities in central Serbia and Vojvodina, so the right you advocate already exists. These are also the formulations that otherwise exist and that we are already paying off as is the law. As for this famous increase, rights are not increasing but what is being paid is increasing because they have not been paid so far. If we know that the previous years, I'm not sure whether three children's allowances have been paid, but I'll check it out, and I'll tell you tomorrow, only three children's allowances were paid all last year, and now we're paying 12 child's allowance under the same law and the same rules, not to say what donations are. Now all I'm talking about is the budget. So then it's certain that what the givings are going to be bigger this year than the previous ones. If the rights are unchanged.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6657	There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6658	When I respond to the pitch, then each of you says no, and there's a woman's voice. Okay. For this speaker, a series of inaccuracies should be referred to in the debate on amendments and additions to the Law on Social Care for Children. First of all, one that is irrefutable, which is that the DOS government of the Republic of Serbia, means the Government of Zoran Djindjic, Vojislav Kostunica, Jozef Kasa, Vuk Obradovic, Mrs Matkovic did not inherit the debt based on maternal supplements, child supplements and all other rights that are exercised under the Law on Social Care for Children. In 2000, all rights were settled with November, as far as I know, and I allow only arguments to disprove me. Namely, the law came into force in July, and in June, the Law on the issue of long-term bonds of the Republic of Serbia, which twice a year, in two half-year wars, for four years, envisioned the rest of children's allowances to be settled. I think there were 27 of them at the time when the law came into force, to settle maternal supplements, equipment for newborns, etc. On that basis, only by the end of last year has been realised regularly through some 500m dinars and an extraordinary donation from the Norwegian government of around 492m. That's the final budget bill for 2000. In the follow-up to maternity leave, complete urgency was achieved and the government elected in January of this year did not inherit the debt on the basis of maternity leave, did not inherit the debt on the basis of the right to a mother's allowance, did not inherit the debt on the basis of the aid rights for the newborn's equipment, did not inherit the debt on the basis of the child's allowance, the cost of stay at the preschool, etc. Of course, it would have been good if it had been a month in a month, it would have been good if the country hadn't been under sanctions, it would have been good if it had been money for everyone, well, I'm convinced that even so far the governments of the Republic of Serbia would have taken off the burden of the mortgage first, not taking care of their children, so first they would have settled all the rights that follow the families and children of the Social Care Act. It couldn't, it didn't work out, and it couldn't take it anymore that someone kept calling us that we don't care about children, that we don't think so, and then, with the engagement of businesses, with engagements and budgets, which gave up their income on a tax basis, so that the bonds, for which the goods were issued, the companies owed to the state, finally managed to put one big debt in some way, in a complete way, an ad act. Now, there is a problem with the director of some companies in Serbia who, by the order of their party summit, did not issue bond goods, although they were obliged to do so, but it went according to the fact that "the neighbours died of a cow", so the law concerning Vojislav Seselj did not show positive results, even though it fell one day and the government did. But now that we're talking, today, the post-festum, after everything that's happened, those debts are settled. I want the Government of the Republic of Serbia to be able to settle debts on this basis every month, I think they're important, but I'm interested, if it's three billion and two hundred (I'll see if the figure is that big), if that debt is settled, and there were 27 monthly debts, where does the need for 10 billion dinars in the budget this year, for 12 payments, if the nominal value remains the same? That's one big problem, it raises a lot of suspicion, because it's really planning a lot of funding, and it doesn't take that much in the budget. And of course, to answer one inaccuracy, which one of the predecessors said -- the Ministry of Family Care didn't waste any money, especially not by having someone come out for this pay phone and saying: instead of paying off child benefits, the Ministry of Family Care was spending money in another way, and thus causing revolt among citizens, a revolt that wasn't proven by numbers and cannot be proved by numbers, because, apart from strictly specific purposes and other than wages, I mean just one more change of funds spent by the Ministry of Family Care, went to other costs, to call them that. The final budget account mentions the amount of November payouts of 400 children's allowances and some dinars, as Minister Matkovic also spoke of. (President: Please bring the end. I'm done. I'm sorry. I don't think I'm obstructing the assembly by talking for a minute longer than you predicted. You really didn't convince me that your budget was net and gross earnings, and the participation of a child's allowance, say 20% for the first child, or the percentage you predicted, that it was correct and that it would give increased amounts that the families in Serbia would receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6659	There's a minister's word, Mrs. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6660	So we're not talking about the increase, we're talking about it a lot. When it comes to the plan, we normally planned that the number of families applying for child supplements would increase on that basis which, since there had been no payout before, then there was no major motivation, perhaps even for applying, since you know that applying once a year, so, of course, during that period of one year, changes are possible, so that part of the increase in the plan is foreseen for that as well. We'll have a relatively quick chance to see, because now it's in progress, which goes once a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6661	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6662	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law is another law that is related to the tax system, in fact, to the reform of the tax system, and apparently, after death, there are still taxes in this country, everything else has become insecure. This is another partial law of six members, but this one has six, past two members, which shows that there is no reform there, and the explanation is that there was not enough time. In September, we had a story that all the reform laws were prepared, that all the money was provided, that six billion stood and only had to be sat on the bus, to take the wheel, and the gas, "drive the mouse" in the bright future. And now it turns out there's not enough time and that from October to today, there's about 100 days, the DOS government's day lasts 70 hours. You're acting like these women who, the older they get, the less they get, the more you're in power, the less you rule, the less you rule since October, as if the Berlusconi were in power, not DOS. However, Madam Minister has an ungrateful situation that must explain here a law, which is mathematical, which essentially does not have a slight connection to the real law on childcare, nor brings anything new. Everything changes, and I get the impression, the more you change, the more it's the same. So now we have to justify something, so we're going to count, we're going to recalculate, not by net earnings, but by profits, so we're going to multiply, we're going to take the average of 2000, we're not going to 2001. We're going to do some math here and we're going to get some percentages. Let's start from the assumption and get those percentages and say we kept the rights as they were. Now, we didn't keep the rights, the rights were reduced, if nothing else, by two basics -- for the first time that it devalued the mark, at least 20% of you devalued the mark, that's one situation, which certainly reduces rights, and secondly, which is the first time in this country introduced tax, practically, on children, on dolls, on diapers, on books, on what is most important and what children use. So, introduce a tax on that and say that we've kept the same rights, is not, to say the least, correct. At least it took that 20%, which we now taxed our parents' ability to buy for that money what they bought, at least that 20% we had to put in those percentages, and then tell them honestly -- we kept all the rights. Or say -- the devaluation of the stamp was 20%, so you install it, and then you start off at some base, and really keep essentially all rights. I have no doubt that Mrs. Minister is trying, and I feel it, and I see that she's trying to ensure all these rights, the breed is organized by that marathon, and it's running for the kids, and in this way the kids have won the importance of showing the state that she wants to be human, that she's working for those who are really the most honest and valuable in this society, we all try to invest that last dinar, and there's certainly no crisis where she should be separated from giving to children. But you'd convince me if you said we shouldn't have introduced those taxes, nothing with those taxes on children's shoes, clothes, these things for children, they won't bring much to the state, but we'll take a lot from them. So since we took it that way, we could now, here, be so human, in calculating those percentages that we built it in, and then really preserve all their rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6663	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I conclude a principled search and put to the vote the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Care for Children, in principle. For 119, against 57, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Bozidar Vucurovic and Srboljub Zivanovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6664	I have submitted amendments to Article 2 and Article 3 in which I said they should be deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, establishing the level of rights in the field of social care for children, parameters that serve to calculate censorship and the level of law should not be reduced in order not to achieve the neutral fact of the law in financial terms. These members reduce the fees from 30% to 9% of the maternal allowance, help with the equipment of newborns, child allowance, third child stay fees at preschool, preschool stay fees for children without parents with disabilities in development and for long-term treatment, programme costs at preschool institutions to start their children in primary school, one-time financial assistance to institutions and individuals and to help mothers refugees. The reason for erasing this article is one word and one word - a shame. He who wrote the bill contributes to the disappearance of the Serbian people or the conversion of Serbs into a national minority in his own country. Everyone knows that these areas are ruled by the white plague. Instead of inciting birth, this law acts in a democratic way. Let's see now, 500 thousand dinars are spent by Mr. Covic in southern Serbia. Instead of worrying, as we can see, he seems to be getting fat, he's having a good time there.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6665	Go back to the topic, Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6666	Tonight, the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Rade Veselinovic, in front of the factory he took, "Mepritlastice", bakes two bulls, means privatisation has succeeded. Ladies and gentlemen, the reason to turn the influence of population policy on making birth decisions is the phenomenon of birth itself, as a biological and social act for which the decision is taken individually. Mere should influence individual behaviors, be free to decide how to be born. It seems to me that these ladies who are always getting me, and whether or not it's a subject, I'm offering them a conversation after the assembly's over, that I can talk to them about this subject with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6667	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Yeah. ) Božidar Vucurović, please, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6668	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have requested an amendment to delete Article 2 of the Law and remain a solution from the old law. As much as we did make calculations, we still didn't get the result that 9% of net earnings per employee, in the Republic more than 30% of the net earnings of the employed in the economy of the Republic. If the government claims it's more, then let it keep the previous 30% solution, it's less, so it'll put less burden on the budget, but if less burden on the budget, the children will be more satisfied. He'll have more than 100 dinars that Grandpa would give him now or 200 in two years per head. However, some of you who, for the sake of the agenda, are asking for a law like this to take care of children, to reduce the discussion to 5 minutes, are not new in this parliament. There were people like that before. He was in a previous meeting, and in the one before that, a Zika, who had a very likable nickname. That Zika, with that cute nickname, was shortening the discussion. Now it seems you haven't agreed which one of you is going to wear that likable nickname, so it's changing...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6669	Mr. Vukurovic, you're using your right to explain your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6670	I will, but I want you to let me, so I don't get my shorts, so I won't answer them. By the way, I've been raised well, and I have to answer people when they ask me something. So, Madam Minister, if 9% is more in this solution than 30% is in the old solution, here we are now giving you the opportunity to save funds in the budget, but we are telling you that the users of these funds will be more satisfied with the 30% of the last solution. So all the stories that the rights don't change, they're not true. If true, keep the old solution. If it's the same as this right now, why are you changing it? If this is more than that now, it's better for you. So you're going to give less.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6671	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is made by Minister Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6672	For net earnings, if we didn't have to just go from net to gross this much, then I'd be happy to keep the net profit if we didn't just have to go from net to gross this much to talk. But since he doesn't have that idea in the law anymore, we had to move on to profits. Profit is now what's different by the gross concept. So we can't stay on the net profit principle, because there's no such thing as law anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6673	Right on line, Mr. Vlasimir Budimovic. He spoke to him twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6674	I'm really sorry, I don't get to do what I'm about to do, but I do it for my grandchildren. In two strokes, for the first time, I didn't want to react, but the second time I was forced to react. You know, it's very hard when a man lives in hate, when by noon he hates himself and the whole world. I raised my grandchildren so much that the gentleman, even to him, would not want to die. If he didn't understand my figurative expression, or 100 dinars right now or 200, waiting two, three, five, 10 years for my grandson to get a child's allowance, then I really think it's illusory that we're talking about anything. You can insult me, but don't insult my children. Don't insult any child. I don't think they deserve it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6675	You're the one who caused the replica. You have no right. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as representative of the parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6676	I know the government can't accept this amendment because it's different systems. If the amendment was accepted, only one member of the law would have to calculate some net profit, and on that side I accept that the amendment is not accepted. However, I have no answer to the question why 30% of the net is not 15% of gross. If netting to gross is about 96%, you promise us 70. What's this about? I think you, Madam Minister, have calculated the nominal amounts. If there really were 450 dinars in November, you now want to keep that amount. Since wages are higher and higher, as all flowers in the country, as the economy is making, you are reducing the percentage of gross earnings to keep the same nominal amount. But it's immoral on an increased budget, at least double, if you don't admit three or three or three times, but at least twice the budget, that only this stays the same as last year. It can't, it's not right. It's not well related to gross. It's a little smaller at the start. Every time you synchronise it, you synchronise it by counting 9% on gross. That's not true, and he can't account like that. It's only if you want to support some of the required information, to return the result to the beginning of the equation, so you can make an equation. Maybe Professor Simonovic could tell you better. You have no fixed percentages based on which the nominal value will come up, but you have the given nominal value that you return to get to some percentages. I think the government was supposed to react so it wouldn't accept this amendment, but it could give its amendment and, by that amendment, remove really one illogicality. Why did we propose to delete this? To remove disagreements and misunderstandings. If 30% were left as before, we'd know that you want the same amount to pay, but that wouldn't even be the same amount, but if the wages were to grow, it would increase the amount for a child's allowance. So, we're really in the middle of a lot of these bill proposals that went from net to gross. Double-larged net didn't give us gross, but we were supposed to multiply by 3.39, like in this case, and then it doesn't go into the head of what happened, what went wrong, and who actually calculated that this 9% on gross is going to give 30% on the net? Of course, we won't be able to warn you after a month that we were right, because we're not going to find any more information on how net it is. If we had the data on the net income in the economy of the Republic in June, so we would multiply it by 0.3, figure out the amount of maternal supplement, figure out how much you paid, we could say -- you see that we were right. But once we adopt this law, and we end this set of laws from net to gross, we never have any more information on how much the net profit is and we have nothing more to compare it with. If we were comparing nominal amounts, don't, because we don't know what that nominal amount would have been if the law that was in force so far had been applied. That's why I think you owe us, except for the fact that it's all clear to you, because that's how you go out for this pay phone, and now what can I tell you, other than that attitude towards the MPs who haven't figured this out, I think you owed us a little more detail, a team before the figures you're putting out don't match the figures we've read in the explanation, and maybe they match the figures we'll only find in the final budget account. I suggest you accept this amendment anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6677	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? The word has Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6678	I thought there was no need to comment on this. So we're no longer able to formulate the net profit that way and that's the problem. That's why we predicted a cost-of-life index. We predicted that it wouldn't change from what's in May, and then we'll figure it out, we'll have a black in the white situation. If it happens that this bill is not good, we will go through the Assembly and, I promise you, here in front of everyone, we will change the percentages as life teaches us in those three months. That is also the purpose of Article 6 of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6679	If no one answers the word anymore, I am putting the amendment tabled by the MPs Bozidar Vucurovic and Srboljub Zivanovic to the vote. For 45, against 119, there were no abstentions, no 9 votes, a total of 173 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. I didn't get that amendment. ) In Article 2. percent "9" is replaced by the percentage "18". (GORDANA MAKOVIĆ, from the place: We do not accept the amendment. ) Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6680	Goran Cvetanovic would also speak, but was unjustly excluded from the session. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 2. The draft law on amendments and additions to the law is amended by the present Article 19, where it is said that the right to a maternal supplement has every mother, except for a mother who has the right to profit compensation during maternity leave. In the current law, the supplement was 30% of the average net earnings per employee in the economy of the Republic, and is now said to be 9% of the average earnings per employee in the Republic. Goran Cvetanovic and I asked that he is 18% of the average income per employee in the Republic, for the following reasons: the budget is at least double the budget of 2000; if we even believe that 9% of the average earnings in the Republic are equal to the 30% of the average net earnings, then at least we have to increase that mother's allowance by that. Otherwise, these amounts of maternal supplement are very small and do not satisfy the basic needs of newborn care. We think, since the minister of heavy hearts has rejected this amendment, because it is likely limited by budget means, that the Assembly will accept this amendment and that there will be room in the budget for more payment of the mother's allowance at the expense of some savings.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6681	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 49, against 118, there were no abstentions, no vote of 8, a total of 175 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Bozidar Vujic and Predrag Mijailovic submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? Mr. Mijailovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6682	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to give an explanation for the amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 5 at the same time, so please, if I just happen to overstep to forgive me. I have submitted amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 5 to increase the percentage of mother and child allowances. I'll give an explanation for all three amendments, as I've already said. What led me to do that? We know that in the country of Serbia we have a negative rate of natural growth and that most often says a negative birth rate. This hasn't happened since yesterday. This has been happening in Serbia for the last 50 years and more, because since the communists came to power in 1945 they have destroyed the Serbian family. Laugh, Mr. from the Socialist Party, you know, if it hits you, the Serbian Sremski front, the youth, and whoever gives birth to children rather than youth, were performed. Not to say what was done with the Serbian church, which was the only one with its own national interest and protected by the Serbian national interest, kept the Serbian patriarchal family safe. Not to say what the communists did in 1945, they banned Serbs from returning to Kosovo after today we have what we have. We don't have our people in Kosovo. I would not speak any further, if you had already pulled me back and laughed like that, for the last 10 years, gentlemen of the People's Party Members of the Socialist Party, we have the greatest fall of birth in the world and in Europe, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and I ask you who has been guilty in the last 10 years for a large number of emigrated youth, and this elite youth, because today we have a fall of birth. I have to tell you, a lot of people died in the battlefields, and you know it. There is no more important national objective and there is no more important job than trying to reverse this negative birth rate in the opposite direction. So I believe, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that this cannot be solved by one law, but must be resolved by a package of laws, primarily by a law of disability and retirement, where we can give mothers with three or four children greater privileges, by social security law, by school law and so forth. This government has promised to bring in an overall package of laws in the fall that will solve this problem and that is why I trust this government to do so. Why do I trust her? I trust her because she has immediately paid off the bonds that have been given since she came to power. They were given in the form of paper, but no one was giving anything but paper, and I watched a whole line of people try to do something with that money. Even a lot of people made money because people made bonds 10 times cheaper. This government has given 12 children extras. So the government's done enough. But one other thing is more important, which the government has promised to bring the whole package of laws back in the fall, and that this problem will be solved overall, because it's not good to solve a piece by piece, because one problem has to be seen from all sides and that's why I withdraw these amendments and I trust the Government. Otherwise, if the Government doesn't do so, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will do, as a People's Messenger, in the fall.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6683	Here you go, replica, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6684	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have indeed learned that this speaker presents a very diverse and different argument in demeaning or even in a persuasive sense when it comes to certain political groups, but I really don't see any mild link between birth and certain political commitment. We have to say, certain activities of political groups may have a positive or negative impact on birth, but we have to say that talent is essentially in both Serbia and Yugoslavia, in fact, part of the overall demographic processes in the countries in which it is located, for me it is a pejorant term, in transition. So at a time when certain groups of economic powers want to enslave a particular nation, transfer it to a transition system and make a sudden privatisation, it is obvious that social uncertainty has a significant impact on the decision of potential parents whether to opt for an increase in the family. It's really not nice to be associated with an earlier period, 45, 50, and especially with certain party groups. In that sense, I don't stand against the idea of measuring ourselves, of what contribution he made to Natalie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6685	Mr. Vujic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6686	Mr. President, I'd just like to ask you not to count the time, since I'd like to make a principle comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6687	Mr. Vujic, can you make it a little louder? I can't really hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6688	Mr. President, I'm going to ask you once again not to count this time on me, now I'm going to make a principle comment on what you did during my last report, not to count my time for this exhibit that I have. I'm not saying that you consciously turned off the microphones so that the MPs of the DOS, along with the MPs of the opposition, would hear what I was saying in my last report, but if you want to be consistent about shutting it down, I don't mind. I'm also asking you to remain consistent in keeping the microphones on so the public can hear what I'm saying, because the duty of us Serbian radicals is to speak to the public. We know that the MPs of the DOS don't really care. Besides, if they were interested, they'd read a lot of laws, and we got to the 19th point, and they could be involved in the debate, but they're not participating. They just read the papers and solve crosswords, so I really ask you not to make such mistakes in the future or to remain consistent. I will talk about the amendment and I believe that it will be public in Serbia, and "this is Serbia", hear what I'm saying. Now just one remark from my colleague Lunet. We will indeed consider on our parliamentary group his further survival with us, because you have read, Mr. President, that we have submitted the same amendment in the same text. It is a coincidence, but Mr. Lune, regardless of all respect, made a mistake, because by giving this amendment, he actually verified the government's work and he didn't present anything about his amendment and suggested it. We will discuss on our parliamentary group whether he can be with us at all. We don't even know where he is. Since 1991, I don't know where Mr. Luna is, but fortunately, he's not with us in the Serbian Radical Party. The amendment I have submitted is in the same text as Mr. Honorable MP, colleague of the Moon, and what I mean is that I propose an increase in the amount for the maternal supplement from 9% to 15%. Why is that? Article 19 of the Old Law states who has the right to a maternal supplement and what is the amount. It is 30% of the average net earnings per employee in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, according to the latest published data by the republican statistics authority. In the draft law on complementarity and amendments to the law, the government said that by moving from net to gross earnings, this Article 2 would be in the future - 9% instead of the current 30% on the net basis. What's the government's explanation? He says, like this -- it's just a mathematical synchronization of percentages to determine the height of the maternal supplement. It would be all right if it were true, and thanks to DOS in this assembly we have more mathematics, and even the late Mika Petrovic Alas would be amazed at how many mathematicians left behind in DOS. What I have suggested is that the increase from 9 to 15%, because 15% is really realistic that at the moment that Serbia lives, that the mothers that receive this supplement can meet the basic needs for which this maternal supplement and has a function and task. Only then will it be able to contribute in one quality way to solving this problem and I appeal to Mrs. Minister that for that, I suppose that mother, too, I appeal to the female DOS network, if they are unable to give birth biologically, with all due apologies, they probably have daughters, that they have this in mind, that the next vote will come, that they will address women, that they will address their mothers. Through a solution like this, you're just showing that you won't win in future elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6689	I'll give you my word, Mr. Vujic, believe me, you accused me of turning off the microphone, and the microphone, like all MPs, was included in the last report, and the problem is with your body. Here you go. You need to talk a little harder.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6690	Mr. President, unlike you from DOS, the doctors have determined that all our organs are fine, and our organs are fine, Mr. Vujic heard the viewers this morning on television, told us that he spoke well, we congratulated him on that with open applause. I want to support this amendment because it is really good, because it is in line with what I think about this law and because I have read the extraordinary explanation of one of the amendments. It reads, I will, of course, just a little bit to correct it grammatically - in our Republic there is an extremely negative birth rate in certain areas, even up to a minus 15. The increase in this percentage will not increase the contributions from this member because Serbia has a negative birth rate. As a result, the average increase will not lead to higher financial contributions, so a surplus would appear in the budget, and it would be unnatural for that money to be used for other purposes, since our country is ruled by the white plague. What does the amendment promoter mean? Yeah, even though I don't think he's right what he thinks would be more segregated, if it was adopted 15% than before, it would be more than a 9%. But there won't be any surpluses, I'm telling you. Namely, these givings, if we bring 15% to gross or earnings as you've now called again, some third term, it's just going to be the same thing as remaining 30% on the net. I recommend to those who write amendments not to give such good and difficult explanations to the amendments, of which they will give up. If we're all convinced that we have a negative birth rate, then we have to solve it today, and by no means say - November, December of the month, I'm convinced that the government will pass a comprehensive law, and then this problem will solve it. And then forget that there are 11 months left to apply a law like this, which we claim does not solve the issue of Natalie. I ask you to accept this amendment, although one of the proposings has given up, and fortunately, there remains another promoter. We have an amendment that we can plead on, and we have the opportunity to increase our donations without endangering at all 10 billion from the budgets foreseen for these purposes. That's why I suggest you accept the amendment and move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6691	Anybody else answer for a word? I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 54, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 5, a total of 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Does anyone else want a word? If not, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 54, against 120, with no abstentions, no votes were received by 8, a total of 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members 2, 3rd and 5th amendments were submitted by MP Borislav Pelevic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? If not, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 120, the abstentions were not voted 10, a total of 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Bozidar Vucurovic and Srboljub Zivanovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6692	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that in Article 20a, Section 2, there remain one average net earnings per employee in the economy of the Republic. You can also baptize it as 80% of the average income per employee in the Republic, or whatever you want. However, how few of us are born and the entire annual salary would be a reward to those people who, at this time and time, decide to have a child. Since Miss Vice President wouldn't let me talk to Mr. Budimovic earlier, and she let him come out here and tell the truth, I'm going to have to say that the only thing I touched Mr. Budimovic was his consultation with the base, or his grandson. Everything further related to my children and my grandchildren. And whoever loves and hates, we'll see now that the cameras show this board. We'll see how you, Mr. Budimovic, vote. That whoever gets the kids gets a little money so he can buy those kids something or he doesn't get anything. One who loves children will vote to get a little money, and that will show the board.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6693	Here you go, Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6694	I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. - that he's wiped out. The explanation - aid for newborn equipment also belongs to the rights of three children in the family, and in municipalities with a negative rate of natural birth and for a fourth child. The aid for newborn equipment shall be paid once and shall be one average net earnings per employee in the economy of the Republic according to the latest published data. It is not possible to provide the necessary equipment for the newborn, and it depends on the amount of the budget. If Covic can spend 500 million, like Mirko and Slavko, they need that help. Whoever signed the bill also contributes to the disappearance of the Serb people. This law also acts detimulatively on the birthing process. I support all mothers and women, because by giving birth, they owe their debt to this country bravely. It's a folk: "Whose sheep and meadows."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6695	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6696	How will we convince you when you come to order legal, economic, political laws, if, as well as to God, we all agree, we cannot convince you of the amendments, which clearly represent an improvement in the text of the Amendments and Supplements of the Law. If one of you goes out for this pay phone, you talk about the white plague, and there's not a single MP in this assembly room who's going to say -- there's only as much of us in Serbia as there is in Serbia, or they're going to say -- there are just as many children in every family as there should be one normal family. That's not true. And the MPs before me were right when they said that in 45 years she was a turning point in thinking about how many normal families should have children. If I were to ask each of you here how many uncles, aunts, uncles, uncles, you'd say, four uncles, two or three aunts, two or three uncles, I guarantee, at least that's how it was among my Nikolics, even though they lived at 920 feet above sea level. Five sons had my grandfather Milutin per father, five daughters and a son had my grandfather Milutin per mother, and here we all have two sons, and only one of us has a son and daughter. It brought us industrialization, not to say communism. Of course, there are Serbs in this room who have more children, but their change of religion has led them to it, and they earn me well, reminds me, they have other ideas about life. The white plague is threatening us. Two children in the family, as the average is now, it's obvious that it's not enough to keep both the state and to be the people, to be sovereign, to be proud and strong, that no one can enslave us. I guess that's pretty clear now. Well, then why keep a solution that wasn't good? If Mrs. Minister convinces us that this solution that she proposes is the same as it was until today or tomorrow, why don't you change it for the better, when, here, you have opportunities. If it is quite clear that the aid for newborn equipment will be greater if you adopt the amendment. Well, why don't you adopt that amendment so we can have more newborns. And even though there is no more, I wish those children who are born would get more than ever. I don't understand. I don't understand. Maybe I'm not educated enough. But why don't the new government just try a little bit. Wait a minute. You've got that money. They're coming to you from all sides. It just takes a little while to be praised tomorrow by all the newspapers and to say, there's a lady who's a minister who's taking care of her children and who said, yes, we want newborn children to get more than ever. Then why is the power changed if nothing changes in this law but the accounting system? So I suggest you adopt this amendment. It won't take a million dinars a year more than you've planned with this law, and it won't touch a single piece of the figure that's budgeted for these donations, and I'm really surprised and I'm really suspicious of what those funds are going to be spent on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6697	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 56, against 121 abstentions, two did not vote eight, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6698	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in article 3, "30%" is replaced by "80%". The proposed percentage is extremely low and does not provide a single aid purpose and should therefore be increased in the proposed sense. Therefore, it would be appropriate to adopt the proposed amendment, whose adoption of social care for children would indeed be. If DOS had really taken care of children seriously, it would have shown that in practice and would not have introduced a tax on everything that is necessary for children. You've taxed children's basic needs -- food, shoes, clothing, school supplies, and the worst thing you've ever done to children is to force their parents' unremembered harrassors, so if they can make it all right for the kids, our greatest joy, nothing will be left. Many of them will also attend the confiscation of property by taxpayers in cases where their parents, exhausted taxpayers, take away the only remaining assets. The experience I have in the work of the National Assembly so far, and that the absolute DOS majority always votes irrationally against the useful and rational proposals of the SRS, tells me that even in this important problem of DOS society will make the worst possible move.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6699	There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6700	If I can give you an additional argument to convince you, the right to help with newborn equipment used an average monthly of 5,350 users in 2000 and the amount of compensation in November was 2,189 dinars. So 10 million a month, maybe I'm wrong, but it turns out that 105 million dinars paid for newborns in 25 months. Do you even realize how small amounts it is? Especially if you consider this to be just an increase from the amount the Government offers to the amount offered by the amendment. I'm convinced it's not even two million a year, and it means a lot to the citizens, psychologically, for the citizens of Serbia, so I guess you realize that, although you're in power, you haven't lost that sense of psychological reality that you had when you were in opposition and when you were in power, you attacked because these givings are extremely low.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6701	If no one answers again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 55, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, a total of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment, whether he accepts it or not? He doesn't accept. ) Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6702	You have already rejected amendments to the SRS, Bozidar Vujic and Bozidar Vučurovic, who have asked to remain an old legal solution, and MP Colic, who has asked that to be 80% of the average profit. Here, I'm offering you a compromise, to make it 60% of the average income in the Republic, since the budget is almost three times higher than in the previous year. This is only twice as much as you suggested. I think the proposal is acceptable and that, unless the minister accepts this and accepts it, the National Assembly can accept it. There'll be money for the kids.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6703	There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6704	I will try to give you one more reason to vote for this amendment. According to data we can read, although they are financial, but can be translated enough into reality, in Serbia 2,000 children are born monthly, 24,000 newborns a year. Well, if 40 million is an annual fee, if 2,000 per cent is now, God forbid it's 200,000 children a year in Serbia, count, if by this amendment, from 2,000 to 2,600 dinars, you increase that fee, that's 600 dinars times 200,000 children. Is that some amount for such an impeccable, over-ambitious budget? I don't think so, and we won't even explain the amendments to this article of the law anymore, because we feel that you've given up listening to what your conscience tells you and that you just want this session to end as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6705	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 52, against 118, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijailovic and withdrawn by the amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from the People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6706	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, out of a personal protest, out of a protest that the government is proposing such a law on child welfare, I am not going to explain this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6707	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 54, there were no abstentions against 117, 17 voted, a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Toma Busetic submitted an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law proposing an amendment to Article 27. The law. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from the People's Messenger Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6708	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, my amendment refers to Article 4 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law and to Article 27 of the basic law. According to my amendment, the right to add to children is realised if the total monthly income per family member achieved for the last three months in the previous year is 70%, not 50%, as foreseen in the Bill's amendment and supplementation proposal, of the average salary achieved for the last three months in the previous year per employee in the Republic, and not in the municipality, as well as if the cadastrian income per member of the family in the previous year does not exceed 3% of the average cadastrian income per hectare of fertile land in the previous year, or is achieved from land up to 500 square meters, on which a residential building was raised. What is the essence of this amendment? So, it changed the censorship from 50 to 70%. This change extends the number of users of this very significant right, and the changes are also related to the achievement of this right at the level of the average Republic, not municipalities. Why? In the principle debate when I spoke, I said that in our Republic we have 17 districts, where the average salary is below the republican average, so only six districts have average salaries above the republican average. Or, translated by municipalities, about 120 municipalities have average salaries of employees below the average republican salary and these solutions are more favourable for users of this right. I think this amendment is good and should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6709	Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6710	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not in favour of accepting this amendment, because it narrows down the rights or I don't get it right. Now, listening to the explanation, I understand that he wanted to expand the number of users of children's allowances. However, if the condition is the average profit in the family, if it increases to 70% of the average earnings in the municipality and the Republic, then only the number of those entitled to children's allowances will be reduced. That's why I'm not willing to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6711	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 40, against 134, two abstentions, 12 did not vote, a total of 188 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 56, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, a total of 188 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6712	I just have to, because of those who are looking at us right now, to say that I have an amendment that envisioned a better solution for the users, and that the government has refused to accept that amendment. I don't want to explain anything further. We said everything about this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6713	Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 56, against 121, abstention four, did not vote 7, a total of 188 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijailovic. I find the amendment has been withdrawn. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 57, against 122, a abstentioned one, did not vote 9, a total of 189 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6714	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're already at the end of our working hours and I think I'll try not to take up too much of your time. I added this amendment three weeks ago, before the beginning of this session, according to the Rules of Procedure. If I had heard Mrs. Matkovic's argument earlier, I probably wouldn't have answered, because she was the only one from the ministers who went out for this pay phone who spoke on the agenda and on the subject. She also tried to explain as much as possible to explain it, not as the previous health minister, who instead of talking about the Health Insurance Act, all the time after the pay phone was justice that he wasn't stealing iron, that he wasn't taking money from patients. If it's from the minister, it's a lot. I have submitted an amendment to the Law on Social Care for Children for the reason that this law needs to be paid the most attention and that we should take advantage of all the opportunities to provide children with the best possible conditions so that they can develop better and prepare for successful schooling, and then workwork. This issue should be well considered and given priority in the implementation of practice to this law. The number of citizens in Serbia obliges us to make the additions bigger and to increase the population in Serbia, so that Serbs in Serbia do not become a minority. In this context, child welfare should provide more money, even at the expense of all other users of the budget. I have to say, the next thing I know, population plans are coming up in 10, 20 years, even more in advance. It is also said that the Cypriots have made a plan to create an independent Kosovo, and they have come to the conclusion that we should be outnumbered in Kosovo and that each should have ten children each and when it is achieved to take action to separate Kosovo from Serbia. That's what happened. In other cases, I suggest that my proposal be accepted, which makes sense and justification. When it comes to children, their care and schooling, money is never enough. I suggested only in Articles 5 and 29 that the percentage of 20 be replaced, instead of 6 percent 9; that the percentage of 25 be replaced instead of 7.5, percent 12; that the percentage 30 be replaced instead of 9, as proposed, percent 14. It's, when it's all seen, 50% less than it was, and 50% more than it's proposed and what our prices are, our standard of life and everything else, I think that would be orientational good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-15-0.u6715	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 56, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, a total of 188 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. This ended the search of the draft law in particular and the decision on amendments. Does the Proposer's representative want a final word? He doesn't want to. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Care for Children in general. For 127, against 58, there were no abstentions, no 5 votes, a total of 190 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Care for Children. Before I suggest we finish today's work, I would like to inform you that a meeting of the presidents of the parliamentary groups has been held at the break, and that we have agreed that if tomorrow and the day after tomorrow are done with a normal dynamic, Friday will be an unworkable day, and that from tomorrow, the committee will begin to work on a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure that would improve the work of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups to appoint their representatives and that the task force begin work tomorrow. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 112 MPs. Please determine if we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have information that one part of the city has been blocked because of the race. It'll probably be the reason MPs can't come. Please, let's take a 15-minute break, see what's going on.
