ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13233	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, since this is an important area, I would like to suggest that time be doubled for discussion in principle and that, in this way, the time foreseen, of five hours, be ten hours and that the Assembly declares it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13234	Mr. Obradovic has the same proposal. Any other suggestions? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13235	Not only is there nothing unclear left. You have four times reduced the time to argue under this law by uniting the debate, so five hours is a debate on four draft laws. If you say now that the debate lasts ten hours, it's still half as much as the normal Rules of Procedure provides for a debate on every bill. If you're already saying that matter is extremely important, and it seems to be important, as soon as the committees had to sit down twice on these draft laws, then it would be normal for at least the time of the debate to last as normal for every other law found in front of the National Assembly. That means we should have five hours for each of the four proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13236	We have two suggestions. One proposal was made by Mr. Mihajlov, that the total time of debate in principle for the parliamentary groups is ten hours and the proposal that came from Mr. Nikolic that the total time of the debate is 25 hours in principle. I'm putting Mr. Michael's motion to vote. For 111 against 42, with 11 abstentions, there were no votes of 8, a total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted Mr. Michael's proposal that the total time of the debate in principle for the parliamentary groups is ten hours. As we have reached this decision -- a parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia -- four hours and 28 minutes, the DOS parliamentary group -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica -- the Democratic Party of Serbia -- for an hour and 48 minutes, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group -- hour and 28 minutes, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group -- 55 minutes, the parliamentary group of the Serbian Unity Party -- 33 minutes, the DOS parliamentary group -- New Serbia -- 19 minutes, the Dos MP group -- the Vojvodina and Sandzak Democratic Party -- 14 minutes, the DOS parliamentary group -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica -- a movement for democratic Serbia -- 12 minutes. I ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups to submit the lists of speakers. The Socialist Party of Serbia is, I guess, against. Are there any more requests from MPs? No, there isn't. ) Can I open a joint principle search? We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - THE PROPOSAL OF THE COURT OF COURT, JUDGET, THE SPECIFIC COUNCIL OF THE COURT, THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY AND THE COURT OF COURT AND OF THE COURT OF COURT AND OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT (joint principled search) I am opening a joint search on: Proposal for a Law on Courts and Public Prosecutors; Proposal for a Law on the High Council of Justice; Proposal for a Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and a Proposal for a Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. Does the promoter want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13237	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this job and what we're doing today is a job that, in short, works once in 100 years, once for many generations. This is the beginning or continuation of the change in the system we promised the citizens. Decommissioning the old and setting up a new one, from an independent judiciary policy -- was one of the main messages that have been sent over the past 10 years. This was one of the main requirements that were addressed by those who were opposition to a regime in which there were no parties. It was the ideal of every lawyer and every man: that the state had an independent judiciary, a judiciary that would judge by law and be just. It's the ideal that we all here, MPs, have to stick to, the ideal that every citizen should seek. With this proposal for the DSS law, I believe, and all those who will support this proposal and who have so far supported it - they want to go about achieving these ideals: that ideals not only remain ideals, but become a reality, and not be viewed as ideals anymore, but that citizens see them as something normal. All that we're going to talk about today, during this debate and the next day during the debate in principle, is something that every lawyer has thought about while he's taking exams and while he's learning, which is to achieve a legal, democratic, stable state in which judges will be independent -- not only of politics, but also of material independence -- so that they can do their job by conscience and law. This is the beginning, as I said, of building a legal and stable democratic state. Why are the legal, democratic and stable states the fundamental attributes of Serbia; why do changes in the system begin with changes in the area of justice; why is the judiciary an extremely important factor in the construction of this state; why is it important for the judiciary to implement all other reforms? Unless you have a legal state, if citizens, property, capital, are not protected by laws and by courts, from changes in the system and from economic prosperity there is nothing. No domestic and foreign investors will invest in a state where there are no legal mechanisms to protect their capital, in which there are no precise conditions under which they can invest. That is why we believe that the start of Serbia's overall development should begin with changes in the legal system and the construction of a new legal system that will open the door to economic development. It's something we have to do. Whether it happens too soon or too late, the citizens will decide. We think this is the right moment, perhaps the last chance that, at a time when we need to expect changes in the system in all areas, we decide to fundamentally change our judiciary, to break down the existing system that has proved to be bad. Our justice system as it is today is quite inefficient. On average, three years' worth of litigation is decided. The choice of judges depends predominantly on the deployment of political forces. The application of the law and the responsibility of the judges for what they are doing is not regulated, and judges can also judge the opposite of the law, in some cases, without responding to it. These are all the things that characterize our judiciary today. I'm not going to get into whether it was right or wrong; it's just -- it's bad. We will talk today about what awaits us, about a future that should be significantly different from the past, about the future of a judge who will not depend on whether today is the DSS or any other party. We in the DSS sincerely believe that the division of power into the legislative, executive and judicial seas and can be feasible in Serbia. The judiciary must be a key factor in protecting citizens from the will of the government and giving them opportunities to exercise their rights. The fundamental objections that went to the expense of our bill concerned that there was no public debate. I believe many will make that observation today. We at the DSS felt that it was extremely inappropriate for us judges and courts to send proposals to our laws, especially if we are the ones who, as MPs, decide whether or not they will be elected. We thought it was a kind of pressure on the judiciary, and that's why we didn't send our proposals to the judges, how the Ministry did it; we don't think it was a bad thing. On the contrary, the last ten days have been a public debate on our draft laws, especially the debate in professional circles. We at the DSS, since we know this is very important for the state, we felt that vanity shouldn't be an obstacle to the work of these draft laws. We are ready and we have accepted the remarks, especially those coming from the professional public, which improve the text of this bill. The remarks that came from the expert public pointed out that there are two concepts of the law. In recent days, no longer exist twice after the adoption of objections by the DSS-ai on the Committee on Justice, which submitted amendments. We at the DSS, like everyone else, believe there's only one way, and there's only one way and that we're all agreeable about it. That's what's good. It would be very bad if an important area, such as the regulation of the judiciary, followed a row between two teams of experts working on building a system. I personally am pleased, I believe all of us, that this discrepancy and this misunderstanding is smooth and that we can say that this is a bill with which the public is consensual and professional and, I believe, a good part of the political parties and that the public is behind such a proposal. What was a limiting factor in writing these draft laws are the limits of the existing Constitution, which require judges to choose the Assembly and regulate nothing else. We handled it; simply, it's a fact we couldn't get past. The way the justice system is organised is regulated in five laws, in a different way that has been regulated so far. First of all, in this case, we are guided by the tradition that existed in Serbia and Yugoslavia until 1945, as well as the way the judiciary is organised in the state-of-the-art justice systems - primarily Romanian and German, which we looked up to before 45 - systems that many of our fellow citizens learned and built up. And this time we returned to those traditions. We have incorporated into our draft laws what is characterized by modern legal systems, so we have received this proposal. We didn't manage to invent a hole in a potted pot and stuff. We have adapted legal solutions to the circumstances that are now in Serbia. We think it's good for the citizens of Serbia. First of all, an independent, but responsible judiciary. Responsible, independent, doesn't mean irresponsible. An independent judiciary does not mean that the judge is irresponsible for whether he judges by law and how he judges. These are some things that did not exist in our law, which are introduced by these laws, and that is something that was fully agreed upon by all those who participated in the public debate. For this first address, I will only present some of the basic things that differ significantly in the current system of judicial organisation from the way it has been arranged so far. Why is the division of five laws better than the way it's been done so far? The 45th tradition and the regulation of the area of justice by one law aimed to present the judge as a state official who is not independent. The law has simply mixed the choice of judges, their status, with all other technical issues: how the administration will work, how some phenomena that are not equal or honorable to the choice of judges and the importance it has. The law, therefore, went to present the judge as a civil servant, as one of the officials in a powerful state apparatus we had all along. We believe that the choice of judges must be set aside in a special law, just in order to give importance to the judges themselves and to highlight their position and importance that they have for the construction of the rule of law and for the protection of citizens' interests. We took special care of the material position of the judges, of equating the material position of judges with other parts in the division of power, means executive and legislative, so we predicted that the President of the Supreme Court had the same salary as the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and then downgraded, that all of this would be regulated. We believe that making a profit in a court for profit in executives is a good thing, because so far the courts have always been paid worse. In this way, regulated earnings aim to make the judiciary materially independent, so that it can be essentially independent from political authority. It is important to note that the High Council of Justice is being introduced. It will be regulated by a special law on the High Council of Justice, which plays a key role in electing and proposing judges to the Assembly. Here the limiting factor was that the Constitution states that the Assembly chooses judges. The law on the High Council of Justice and the election of judges provides that the Assembly can only take or leave a proposal of the judge, vote for or against the proposal of the High Council of Justice. No more volunteering, so the Assembly can choose who they're going to put on. The new proposal will give the High Council of Justice, and that's what's good. The High Council of Justice is drawn up in relation to 7:4 for judges. So, the profession, the judges, have a majority, and the judges will ask themselves the most about who will be the judge and decide on the status issues within the jurisdiction provided for in this package of laws. So we want politics to no longer have a crucial impact on the choice of judges. We want judges to choose for themselves because they know best, by their own criteria, who is better among them and who should be the judge. We want to raise the reputation and their importance, so that the best lawyers will go again, or be elected judges, and not, as we have in recent years, to flee from the judiciary and the prosecution in law. This judiciary, to a good extent, for a long time, has impoverished us for many good lawyers, especially those more experienced; this can be seen in "sharing justice", if that is so said, in Serbia. What's new and what's being introduced is the Court of Appeal. There will be departments in Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac. The first-degrees will exclusively be municipal and county courts, with divided powers. So, one new instance is being introduced, and the Supreme Court becomes a review court and gets exactly the function the Supreme Court should have, while one Court of Appeal with three departments is being held, for a uniform case law. It is a solution that will allow us to have an even share of justice across Serbia's territory, and that's also good. It is still important to note that independence does not mean irresponsibility and that simply judges regardless of the independence they have must be responsible for what they do. There must be no will in law enforcement, there must not be everything that has been so far. It must not - because of political interference - be selective law enforcement. It must no longer be because of family and other relationships, godfatherly, as it was, there must be no selective law enforcement. It will be punished by this law. The judges will be responsible for what they do. These mechanisms are set up by this bill. There are a lot of things that represent newspapers in these bill proposals. There's going to be an opportunity to talk about it, and for this one, the opening address -- that's it. I'll listen to the remarks, primarily opposition parties, on these bill proposals, and then we'll try through one expert and, hopefully, a correct debate to come up with the best solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13238	Mr. Zarko Obradovic answered first.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13239	Dear Mr. President, fellow MPs, the Serbian Parliament is today discussing a set of draft laws in the area of the judiciary - on courts, on judges, the High Council of Justice, the public prosecutor's office and the courts' offices and public prosecutors' offices. The importance of these laws is no doubt for both the judiciary and society in general. The current situation in the judiciary is poor, both in material and professional terms. That's familiar. What Serbian citizens think of the situation in the judiciary and that is known. The opinion is extremely negative. A survey by the Alternative Study Centre, more than a month ago, showed that 51% of Serbian citizens are particularly unhappy with the work of existing authorities to establish a rule of law. Only 14% are satisfied, while the others are undetermined. The situation in the judiciary is bad because, probably, by momentum and practice from the period when the current government was the opposition and after 5 October last year, a non-critical attack on the judiciary was carried out at all on judges individually. The executive authority of the DOS has been acting on a permanent basis and exerting pressure on the judicial system with a request to carry out the will of that executive authority. How else to call and interpret a number of unjudged, irresponsible and unprofessional statements by the Executive Authority's representative on the judicial authority, on the work of the judicial authorities, on judicial decisions. The poor assessment of the judiciary also contributed only to the judiciary, by way of its work, i.e. by failing to respond to obvious examples of the destruction of the rule of law. Whether the proposed laws can change the situation in the judiciary for the better, how much it is and what it is necessary to do in order for the judiciary to function properly, to the well-being of citizens and in the interests of the state, the question is which one to answer. I think that there are solutions in the proposed laws that are the hope of a better situation in the judiciary; these laws protect the independence of the judicial authority from the legislative and executive authorities; protect independence, independence and continuity of judicial and public prosecutorial functions; reduce the possibility of excessive or open influence, parliamentary, and of course also party, by electing judges from the approval of the Serbian Parliament to the High Judiciary Council; judges and judges are elected in the same way; and other solutions. Such solutions to us socialists are not unknown and foreign, given that similar or similar ones were present in proposals, at least based on information I received from my colleagues back in 1997, but which were not the subject of a parliamentary debate. The proposed laws we are discussing today have, in addition to the positive and negative sides, weaknesses and solutions that we consider to be non-road, non-functional, unscheduled and question the independent status of the judicial system. For these reasons, we have proposed a number of amendments to amend, repair and obtain the best possible laws. However, the proposed or adopted solutions will remain a dead letter on paper if, in society, among people, in the executive government, there is no change in the judiciary in the manner of conduct, in understanding its own, but also in the positions of the judiciary, in the original, not in the personal or party understanding of the concepts of justice, justice and the rule of law. Provisions of Article 5 The law on courts -- which says that the use of public office, the means of public notification, any public dispensation and any other influence on the court are forbidden as opposed to the independence and impartiality of courts, the equality of citizens before the law -- are good. It is also the provisions of Article 2(3) that all should respect and comply with the executive court decision. The Law on Judges also speaks of the distance of judges from the judge's office as an exception to the continuity of the judge's duty. It says that the judge can, but does not have to be far away when a criminal offence has been brought against him, which may be the reason for his resolution or the procedure for resolution. The distance is then optional and in the extreme line depends on the circumstances of the criminal proceedings or the procedure for the resolution. Therefore, it is up to the President of the Supreme Court to decide on a university distance. That's what the bill says. These provisions, however good they are, are difficult to live up to in practice, because in our practice things are, unfortunately, different. Apart from the law, the current or future justice minister, unfortunately, took on the role of prosecutors and judges in the judiciary, the supreme judicial authority, which assesses the validity of the judicial decisions. This confirms an open letter, and essentially an open threat from the current minister of justice and local self-government to all holders of judicial functions to leave the judiciary, primarily on the moral principle, and only for some and in cases of criminal liability. To call an open letter to leave the judiciary those who are guilty of various crimes means to knock on the open door and to be demagogue. When it comes to moral responsibility, things are not well with the minister who proposes it, nor with the most responsible people in the judiciary elected this year by the congregation's majority. The minister, who, along with the government of the Republic of Serbia, has annulled the electoral will of Serbian citizens in the 22 municipalities of the Republic of Serbia, speaks of the moral responsibility of judicial officials. Without prejudice to voters and without hesitation when it comes to the facts they spoke otherwise, the minister proposed, and the government adopted solutions on the introduction of forced administrations in municipalities where the Socialists, alone or with other left parties, defeated. At the same time, the minister tolerates violence, reluctantness, non-sessions, making illegal decisions in municipalities where local authorities are organised by his party's co-workers. The moral responsibility is referred to by the Minister of Justice, for whom the Constitution is not a sacred letter so that it could not be changed, which makes public statements on court decisions against NATO's leaders who bombed our country. With this open letter, the minister certainly does not threaten political equalists in the judiciary, those chosen by the assembly majority this year and who, here in the Serbian Parliament, are directly told that they have the support of DOS staff committees and whose expertise we have cited in the Assembly sessions when it was decided, relating to the average of the study, the length of study and that some have not even worked in the judiciary, so we have the right to doubt the impartiality of such justice. The threat probably does not apply to those people from the judiciary who work on the demands of so-called. public and media and DOS dictatorship, as well as those who remain silent when they are brought or act against constitutional acts and illegal actions. There is therefore a number of people in the judiciary who have maintained their personal and professional independence, who do not meet the DOS criteria, party membership, obedience and obedience of the executive government. They are the last obstacle to establishing a rule of law according to the DOS model and Mr. Justice Minister, an obstacle clearly needed to be removed. How do you believe that the provisions of the Law on Courts will apply, which say that the courts are the independent bodies of state authorities that protect freedoms and rights of citizens and ensure constitutionality and legality, when we had the case of the kidnapping of citizens of Slobodan Milosevic, the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia from prison and his extradition to the illegal Hague tribunal, and none, but none of the responsible people in Serbia's judiciary reacted. Milosevic at the time had the status of a detained person, over whom jurisdiction has exclusively the investigative judge and judicial authorities. Nevertheless, the non-examination judge, as directly responsible for implementing the detention measures, nor the president of the Belgrade District Court, as directly responsible for failing to monitor the application of the detention measures, nor the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, because of the objective responsibility he carries for working in Serbia's judiciary, nor did anyone else in the judiciary say a word of condemnation. There was neither personal nor professional courage to condemn one such act or to offer resignation for inaction. No, on the contrary. So the proposed laws, however good or bad, are only one segment of the situation in the judiciary. An important segment, but only one. If other things don't change, and it doesn't seem like they will, regarding the conduct of an executive, the situation in the judiciary will hardly be better, and thus the state of the rule of law will improve. Dear colleagues, I said there are some solutions that we Socialists think are bad. There is a need for some sorting, modifying the given system, which concerns the structure and authority of the High Judicial Council, to varying the position of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, to varying the position of judges and judges of jurors, to the overemphasising role of the Ministry of Justice and the minister of justice in these draft laws. There are also some legal criteria that are inaccurate and unreal and, as such, can lead to a misunderstanding or to a misreading of the meaning of certain provisions. The amendments, which we have made, we have tried to correct these shortcomings. Our relationship to the law will ultimately depend on adopted solutions, whether they are to be established, continue to be subject to the judicial authority to an executive, whether the degradation of the judicial system will continue or be what needs to be - independent and independent power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13240	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13241	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that the set of laws proposed and the problems they include should represent the fundamental laws that the National Assembly should adopt. However, we in the SRS believe it was necessary to pass a single law which would include such matter and would represent a far better solution. The best solution is that every time a number of codified legal standards are possible, it prevents the possibility of creating so-called secondary legislation, which can also lead to serious difficulties. There's one thing that's true when it comes to the rule of law. It's true we don't have a legal state. We didn't have it right, and today we don't have it at all. We can talk today about the economic crisis, about the hard life, but there is nothing worse in this country than the absence of a rule of law in the right sense of that word. In his opening statement, the promoter said that he expects and that he thinks this will contribute to the creation of the rule of law, that we have so far had something that could not be called by that name and I must say that what we have since we arrive at the authority of the proposing party, so the DSS and other ruling parties, is all, in fact, the opposite of the rule of law. We have something that is much more like the spirit of revolutionary justice, except that no People's Liberation Committees are formed, but they are used by existing courts, or political instruments, and, in the worst possible sense, use against political opponents and use decisions that contribute to the regime, which contribute to the ruling parties. Today, in our country, we have the right fruit of judicial, executive, and media. Something that would be completely banned in every legal state. It's obvious that this trend continues, that it doesn't give in at all, it's obvious that no one is interested in changing something in that regard. It represents the criminal behavior of the government. The power of the set of proposed laws not only does it not try to change, but it seems to me that it wants things and how to make them worse. It seems to me and it is obvious that the SRS is the only parliamentary group in the National Assembly who will vote openly and say why it is against the proposed laws. I have to ask one principle question: why is there no government representative here and why has the government not proposed such significant laws? Why isn't the Justice Minister here talking about it? It is normal for such proposals to be submitted by opposition parliamentary groups, but it is not normal for governments to propose and submit certain parties from the government. But we don't care about that either, but we're interested in why we don't have a government representative here today, who delivered their opinion against these laws, we've got reasoned arguments and why all these laws are bad, and today they don't have to say it because there's political trade going on. We will vote for this law, and you invite Serbs to go to elections in Kosovo or something else, we will discuss this later. Yeah, that's what you were yelling about the last time I said you weren't going to get the government's opinion, but because of the union strike, you were delaying the assembly session, so it turns out I was right. In a set of these laws, we can see one legal discrepancy, inconsistency and inconsistency. Namely, if an individual judge wants to study his place in law, position, status, rights and obligations, each one is obliged to study three legal acts -- the law on the regulation of courts, the law on judges and the law on the high council of justice. It was possible to settle all this in one law. The law on the regulation of courts is a very bad law, and it speaks in principle of the independence of the judiciary, and this rather comes from the independent position of the judge. The independent position of the judge has been arranged in the second law here. And why is it not a good bill on the regulation of courts from the corner of the SRS? We, today, in order to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, since they were mostly listening to political aspects and political tyranny from the promoters, we need to explain what this is about. In Serbia today, we also have regular courts involving courts of general jurisdiction and so-called specialised courts, i.e. economic courts. We in the SRS advocate that there are courts of general jurisdiction, whose activity would be divided by departments. So, criminal - legal matter, civil - legal matter, economic or trade, however you want, and we'd avoid the existence of that kind of specialized courts in administrative and legal matter at all. That would be the right solution and the best solution for the citizens. What would be managed by the SRS, which is not handled here by the legislator, is the rights of Serbian citizens -- the right to judicial protection, to bring courts closer to the citizens, and I will especially explain this about the appeals courts that were here to say. That's what the SRS stands for. What is every citizen's duty, every natural person to know whether his rights must be exercised in front of this or in front of those specialised courts? You, apart from the existing ones, are introducing new specialised courts in this reform, introducing administrative courts. By the way, for those who used to yell at it when it was read, I prepared to speak for two hours and study complete parallel legal literature. They could find something about how it was formed in France, even from a girl-regius through royal councils, secret councils, to a state council, etc., but that role is not identical to the same name institute in France as it is envisaged for us. At the same time, why are new appeals courts being introduced? You have the community to understand ordinary citizens who don't know that. We had municipal courts that always solved the first-degree procedure, district courts that once solved in the first degree, most often in the second-degree procedure. Serbia's Supreme Court had significant powers in the first-time procedure for resolving administrative disputes, primarily against acts of the republican authorities and on extraordinary remedies, and could in certain cases be in the second-degree. What do we have today, what does the promoter propose today? The promoter offers us the following thing - that we have first-degree municipalities, which are preserved, that we have districts, which are largely re-degreed, and that we have new appeals courts. What's with the appeals courts? Where will the citizens have more protection? You will have appeals courts in only four cities in Serbia. So anyone who uses the right to appeal will have to go mostly far from his house, aside from the fact that Pristina is not mentioned here in the bill. But will the citizens be able to achieve their rights that way? He won't. And where's the financial domain in the draft law on the regulation of courts? You say there's no need for additional funding. How could they not? How long does it take for the new judges, for the court staff, so for the full administration? Who's going to solve it that way? You say - inefficient courts (I am talking about the reasoning of the bill, for those who have read it), and you are introducing two more instances, introducing two-stageness in the work of the Supreme Court. So how are they going to go now, and how many years are they going to judge? What's better for citizens? What good is that solution for citizens? What citizens get from these -- citizens of your proposed solutions just lose. It's about the high council of justice as something that's genius. That's what the promoter was talking about. And whoever makes the high counsel of the judiciary, we have five permanent and six calling members. Why would the High Council of Justice take over the powers and prerogatives of the authorities within what falls into the brakes and balances of the legislative authorities, therefore, legislation to the judicial authority, as well as courts have certain powers to establish a balance according to the legislative authority. Now you're subtracting it directly from the National Assembly and you're allegedly giving it to some expert team, and with permanent members, let's see who these experts are -- first of all, the minister of justice. You are limiting the legislative authority, and you are giving incomparably greater authority to the executive authority. Are those the solutions? There's also the President of the Supreme Court and there's a republican public prosecutor, but don't forget that in the law on public prosecutors you predicted that it was possible to v.d. a republican public prosecutor, as you introduce the institution of acting as a republican public prosecutor, can appoint a justice minister. Now, that's what we're up against in the SRS, and that's something you have to say from this pay phone. We also find it unnecessary to limit the work of the Supreme Court of Serbia, and I will now point to a few illogicalities in the functioning of so-called. High Council of Justice and so-called a large personal council that is now being introduced. First, I don't understand why a great personal council would be introduced, when we had a general session, which could have decided on much more important things than what was put on a big personal council that could decide. A large personal council may decide on the status and position of judges and now (as if this is much more important than the general session's right, which we have under current law) to initiate a procedure on the constitutionality and legality of individual acts, on conflict of jurisdiction, etc. Why do we need a big personal bigger one? And then it is said, as if it would limit the power or power of the Supreme Court president -- the Supreme Court president cannot be a member of a large personal council, which is not an electoral body, but lasts two years. It's unclear how their functions stop, and especially how they can stop their functions before that, which is why, what are the legal reasons, or anything else. So in the context of all of that, then you say -- he can't be a member of the grand personal council, but he can be a member of the High Council of Justice. So where's the elemental logic? I don't think that makes any sense. I think this set of laws should be rejected. I think it is necessary to pass one single law, which would regulate matter in the judiciary in general in an incomparably better way, about the position of the judges, about some of the other solutions that we've talked about here, and I'm going to talk about in my second presentation. I'm just going to look back at the ineffectiveness that has been discussed, legal certainty, systems change and public debate. We do not consider the lack of public debate to be the most important thing. It was during the communist period, if most MPs agree, that law has passed, but it takes us to convince us that this is justified and that this will contribute to changes in the system. This contributes to changes in the system as much as it will be incomparably worse situation in the Serbian judiciary than it is today (which is, however, very difficult to imagine) regardless of how many honorable judges we have, honest people. The interference and direct interference of the executive authorities will make it even worse. Appealal courts have been introduced, ladies and gentlemen, as well as administrative courts, in the first degree as specialised courts deciding in the first-degree procedure, were introduced because the government wants direct political control. 'Cause a little who's gonna be able to... You don't have county courts, which you have 30, but you're going to have four appeals courts, so let's see how they pass judgments. The Supreme Court is reportedly being relieved and given some information that is of no importance to him at all, while 70% (the legislator himself says) of the case were resolving administrative disputes against acts of the republican authorities. And now it is completely taken away, the constitutional role of the Supreme Court is lost, and some phantom organs are being formed, phantom bodies that will not do any good to the Serbian judiciary. As far as legal certainty is concerned, you have introduced the principle of retroactiveness as a rule has violated the principle of legal certainty, as a fundamental legal principle in Serbia and the SRJ. The question is, when and if they'll be able to make it right any time soon. With such inconsistencies, inconsistencies, and, if you will, even mutually incompatible laws, I am sure that our judiciary will be much worse than it is today, if that is possible to imagine. I thank you for your attention and I agree that the SRS parliamentary group will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13242	It's my failure, I didn't invite the committee's informers, and they still didn't remind me that they had a right before the president did any of the reporters come forward for a word? I suppose you'd like to answer that. We are continuing the debate of the president of the parliamentary groups. He has the word Mr Tomic, deputy president of the PDS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13243	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been waiting for a package of system laws like this to be found before this assembly and before us, which will regulate a very important and very important, crucial area of our lives, which is the area of justice. So far, we have had a constitutionally guaranteed and declared division of power in our Constitution, in Article 9, where it is said that the judiciary is being served by courts in the Republic of Serbia. However, unfortunately, we only had a declared division of power, we actually had one violence by the executive, first of all, over the courts and over the judiciary. However, the whole story was not only attended by the executive authority, but also by the legislative authority in the previous period. When we talk about this package of laws and what it introduces, we need to look back at the previous period and see that we have never really had an independent and free judiciary before, and first of all we have in mind courts as institutions and judges as individuals, as individuals who did this judiciary. We had a period of devaluation, humiliation, as well as destruction (material, professional, professional, and in general) of the composition of courts in Serbia. The party judiciary has dominated us for over 50 years. The great influence of the executive authority is through the minister of justice, the great influence of the legislative authority through the Committee on Justice and Administration, which had, and still has, through one provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the possibility of proposing certain candidates to elect to judicial functions. When we talk about the rule of law and the rule of law, there is one more institute and one principle, which is dominant for this matter that we are dealing with today, which is the independence of the judiciary. Independence of the judiciary, first of all, is seen through independence and independence. I see independence through the prism of court independence as an institution, independence towards other bodies and organisations, above all according to the executive authority, but also to the legislative authority. I see other independence in the independence of the individual, the individual, the judge, who cannot be influenced, or at least not allowed to put pressure on the system, to influence these judges, and that everything we had in the previous period, which is corruption, even committing crimes. Independence and independence are guaranteed by the Constitution, this law, international law, good international customs and international conventions. All of this is woven into this package of laws that we have before us today. The basic line that this package of laws follows throughout, in all these five laws, is exactly that dominant line of independence. The second institute that is dominant is the continuity of the judge's function. When I'm talking about continuity, of course, I'm talking about the continuity of the judge's function, but also about residenceal continuity. Residency is protected in this package of laws and has the right to decide only the high council of the judiciary, in specific cases, in precisely defined cases in these laws. These laws also prohibit the incompatibility of performing judicial functions with other functions. And in previous legal solutions, we had it regulated. Unfortunately, in an open or hidden way, the judges belonged to these or those parties, to these or those organizations. However, what is important and what is being introduced by these laws is that judges are allowed to have their own professional associations, professional associations, which we could see in the previous period as one of the largest halls and opponents of the former regime, which is why more judges have been expelled from the judiciary, precisely referring to being organised into their professional association, the Association of Judges of Serbia. One of the important things dealing with this package of laws is the question of a judge's resolution. So far, we have had a question that the judge is resolved after a certain excess which he had in performing his judicial function. This law introduces a measure where the judge warns himself of those failures he had in his work. Whether it is in a professional sense, morally, in the failure and non-compliance of its work obligations, it is irrelevant, but it is introduced that one inter-step to a judge's discharge from the judge's office. The Institute of Immunity of Judges is being introduced and is in some way equating itself with the immunity of other elected persons, who are also in a system of special immunity, say, is an example of the MP and immunity that protects him. Also, the judges protect certain immunity, and that the National Assembly, or authority before which the judge, is elected, must give permission to do so. All that we're saying is closely related to the material position of the judge and the material position of the judiciary at all. We are still not in the stage that we have a special judicial or judicial budget, but this issue must be taken into account - where effective means will be allocated in time for the exercise of justice in general. When we talk, first of all, about the Crucial Laws of this package, which is certainly a bill on the regulation of courts, we will notice the introduction of new courts, primarily the Court of Appeal and the Court of Justice, as a special court. We will hear differing opinions that municipal, or district courts can judge in the first degree, that is, the district court judges in the second degree. However, I am sure that this way increases efficiency and that such distribution of matter, above all on the case, will come to the attention of the district courts in the first degree of matter that will eventually be found in the appeal proceedings before the Court of Appeal. The Court of Appeals has been appointed centrally and the departments deployed in three cities are only the departments of the appeals court. I think it's a good solution because it's evening court practice, which is very necessary, and it's always dominant when it's being resolved by appeal to a certain verdict in the first degree. The administrative court is also very important, because in this way the courts of general jurisdiction have been disbursing a huge amount of matter, a huge number of cases, which they have dealt with so far for many years. Also, trade courts, which remain in the system of special courts, with only a changed name, in a good way help to regulate certain matter through these special courts. We will hear that certain powers or certain matter are excluded from the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. However, in this way, the Supreme Court is given the opportunity to deal with all those things that were so far in the second row. The Supreme Court has so far been stifled by certain cases, and this way it will be resolved at lower levels, that the Supreme Court as the highest court in our Republic will be able to deal with the things prescribed by the Constitution and the law. Another law that is of crucial importance is the Law on Judges. I was already talking about independence and freedom in the work and decision-making of judges. What's new in this proposal is the precise definition of constitutionality and independence, and in fact, in this law it's defined as the permanence and immutability of the judge. The judge cannot be transferred under this law without consent, as well as without solutions made by the High Council of Justice. Also, in the case of perseverance, it is precise that if a need arises to shut down that court or to reduce the number of judges, that judge remains a judge, only to get a second place through the High Council of Justice. What is important in the deployment of cases that the judge receives, which is defined by the rules of procedure, as well as by the annual schedule, is important to adhere to the institute and define that institute in law, which is the case. In this way, it is avoided that the President of the Court is manipulating the award of certain cases to his loved ones to judges, or to those who are less fond of him. What's also good, and it's defined by this law, is that a certain number of members define the material position of judges, i.e. The amount of salary shall be defined in the manner in which the President of the Court's salary is determined. Since I've overstepped time, I'll talk about other laws in part two.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13244	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I belong to that group of MPs who consider the area of justice to be one of the main foundations of society, and therefore, when it comes to this, the main role should be given to lawyers and people of the profession. Since I'm not in that dam, I'm now in a single, slightly ungrateful situation, to convey the views and opinions of this profession from my district, the lawyers and lawyers, or to point out a small number of shortcomings in the bill's proposals. The first objection that lawyers and judges from my neighborhood made to this proposed law concerns the jurisdiction of municipal courts. In their opinion, the current proposal reduced competences in terms of the conduct of disputes in the field of labour and housing disputes. This matter, in their opinion, has been tried by first-degree municipal courts. In these disputes, municipal courts have shown satisfactory urgency. After the abolition of the courts of joint work, this matter has been transferred to the jurisdiction of municipal courts and there is no practical reason to re-locate jurisdiction in these matters. On the other hand, citizens must be afforded protection in court. The court needs to get closer to the citizens, not away from them. They must be provided with economical procedures. How does this happen if a citizen has to travel in one direction and 100 kilometers? For example, people from Prijepolje, from my neighborhood, have to travel to Užice. So they have to leave all day for one trial. Why don't we bring the court closer to the citizens? After all, the court is formed for the purpose of the public, not for the sake of the court itself. These proposed solutions will make it very difficult for citizens to exercise their rights. Affluent disputes are very rarely resolved through court, at least so far, the practice has shown. In a court of law, they mainly exercised their rights to the poorer layers of the people. So, that's about the law on court-ordering. There are certain objections to the proposal for a law on judges. Namely, this proposal does not provide for experience in justice or law enforcement. It takes four years for a judge of a trade court, of which three years of work in a judiciary or a lawyer; six years for a district court judge, of which four years of work in a judiciary or a lawyer; eight years for a judge of the Supreme Court, a senior court and a administrative court, of which 6 years of work in a judiciary or a lawyer, and in the end, 12 years for a Serbian Supreme Court judge, of which 8 years of work in a judiciary or a lawyer. It's clear I'm talking about work experience. It is entirely illogical for a judge, for example, the district, trade, appeals, administrative and Supreme Court to be elected by a candidate without the necessary experience in justice or law. They consider that, with all due respect to the practice gained by work in other bodies or companies, it is necessary for the judges of these courts to have long-term working experience in the judiciary or in law. Finally, one objection to the law on seats and areas of courts. I'll come up with a proposal, and I'll explain it later. It is proposed that for the area of Prepolje, Priboj and Nova Varoš municipalities, the district court or the district court department of Užica, based in Prepolje, be formed for the area of the same municipalities, with its head office in Prepolje or Priboj. The reason for this lies primarily because, if we look at the District Court in Užica, which is foreseen for the area of municipality courts of Arile, Bajina Basta, Ivanica, Kosjerić, Nova Varoš, Požega, Priboj, Prepolje, Užice and Cačak, it is the widest court. In fact, it covers one of the widest areas. I haven't seen any other district court covering so many municipalities, as covered by the District Court in Uzic. There are other reasons. In the case of these three courts in Prijepolje, Priboj and Novi Varoša, after handing over the suit, the hearing is scheduled for no later than a week from the day of reception. In the event of a delay in the hearing or search, the next one is scheduled for 15 to 20 days in Belgrade, Nis and other places. We've been waiting for months and years for calls to be handed over, and in the event of a delay, the next hearing is in six months. These three courts have been filled for a long time, and the court in Prijepolje is, according to reports, the fourth in the Republic at an up-to-date and quality. First-degree courts in these three municipalities have existed for over 70 years, and there have been second-degree courts. So a valid reason for what is proposed. All in all, this proposed law will be accepted by a parliamentary group of Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party, in the hope that the proposed amendments, which we will vote for, will correct these objections.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13245	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) First reported is MP Vojkan Tomic (not present). The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13246	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, while I was listening to Mr. Michael explain his, how he likes to say "systemic set of laws", I wondered if the same man wrote these laws and spoke for this speaker. The first thing he said was that the practice so far has been abolished that the presidents of the courts and judges set up the parliamentary majority in this assembly and that it has been regulated by this new law. However, according to the Law on Judges, Article 6: "The judge and the President of the Court elect and decide on the termination of their duties by the National Assembly. The number of judges and jury judges for each court determines the National Assembly, on the proposal of the High Council of Justice." Now only one fact that is called the High Council of Justice is changing. What does the High Council of Justice do? The High Council of Justice comprises: the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia (means, the judge elected in this assembly), the republican public prosecutor (also elected in this assembly) and the minister in charge of justice (known to be elected in this assembly). So there's no question about the independence of the judge and the judiciary. So, one particular parliamentary majority will still be appointed by the presidents of the courts and judges of the general jurisdiction. As far as the court-ordering law is concerned, I wonder why this law is even written as it is. There's nothing important about it. Something has changed the jurisdiction of the courts. What's most funny to me is that now a commercial court is called a trade court. I don't think it was necessary to put it into this law at all. As far as the public prosecutor's law is concerned, the bill shows that district and municipal public prosecutors have broad powers. However, in no part of any single law or set of these laws, it is not mentioned what happens if the district attorney or municipal public prosecutor does not take action in the event of criminal charges for which evidence exists. There's a lot of cases like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13247	The People's Messenger, Djordje Mamula, has the word, and then Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13248	A package of law on justice, which we have proposed, as you yourselves have seen, is another act or claim on originality. There are no new ideas. It has already been something that has been known over the past decades, only now it has been shaped in one way that has not come across acceptance in previous parliamentary life. The organisation of the judiciary as a state problem and the organisation of the judiciary as a special branch of judicial law has so far been neglected in this society and by science, and by the school and college programmes of law schools and legislation, which was also understandable as a result of the long-standing system of unity of government. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia declared the principle of the division of powers to legislative, judicial and executive and led to changes, and in some ways encouraged the development of this branch of law, because not only were the existing solutions conservative, but they showed that the mere division of the authorities to those three is not enough. Reform in the organisation of the work of the judiciary requires and reform of the legal system, notably the reform of law studies, the release from legal conservatism, the modernisation of rights, without losing touch with the state of national reality. Legal opinion has been formed here for decades as a legalist, by which the right is what is contained in the laws, no matter what their content is. At that school opinions are educated generations of lawyers. The right was to deny the order based on the authority that was a craft and a lifelong privilege. Under such circumstances, state reasons and maintenance and defence status quo are the alphabet order. Ethics, religion, natural law and the question of value orientations have almost no effect on the arrhythmia of the siege and emergency, which is guaranteed by permanent scarcity. In addition to changes in the area of material law, it is necessary and, from the point of view of the organisation of the work of the judicial authorities, to amend procedural legislation, because without fundamental change of procedural legislation, there is no efficiency of the judicial system, in line with the modern answers given by the science and practice of the world to the judicial system crisis. It will also be necessary to form a special judicial budget, so that the Law on the Payments of Judicial Officers does not turn them into system officials. Already today, employees in the judiciary cannot share the fate of others in society, but they must be much better paid than many. In addition to all of these, the division of powers in court, legislative and executive must be fully and fully maintained, as it has been established for too long. When it comes to the draft law on judges, the law regulates the question of the position and status of judges, while the issue of the organisation of courts is governed by the law on the regulation of courts. In addition, because of the importance of the judicial function and the rights and duties of the judges, it is clear that the separation of these two areas is necessary. In addition, such a solution exists in some other legislation, such as the French and German laws on judges, and there were such solutions in the laws of the Kingdom of Serbia and the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. In the first chapter of the proposal in principle (Art. 1. - 10.) more precisely than in the solutions so far, the independence, continuity and immutability of the judges and material independence as the basis of the judge's status are determined. The immunity of the judges in telling justice is foreseen in particular to highlight the constitutional right of the judge for the opinion or vote made in the performance of the judicial duty. In terms of detention, however, I believe that a better solution would be for the judge to be levelled with the status of MP and could not be better protected in this respect. The right to association and professional training, as special rights, contributes to the preservation of independence and independence, as well as professionalism. As regards the draft law on the regulation of courts, as you have had the opportunity to see, the proposed changes tend to be made by organisational arrangements of courts in a way that is not new, because it is known in the legislation of Europe and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. In our current practice, and especially in the last decade, the actual jurisdiction of the courts has led to the overload of courts, particularly second-degrees, and especially the Supreme Court of Serbia, the inequality of judicial practice, imposed as a source of law. Dispersion of courts would be possible by forming an appeal court in Serbia. In fact, municipal and county courts would have first-degree jurisdiction, and the Court of Appeal would resolve, decide on complaints about the decisions of the district courts. At the top of the pyramid would remain the Supreme Court. The district court would also retain appeal jurisdiction, while the second-degree court would remain in relation to the municipal court. Education of the administrative court also assumes the first-degree jurisdiction of the Supreme Court in the matter, which also relieves the Supreme Court. It is proposed to establish a trade and higher trade court for matter of economic and legal relations. The idea of education of the High Council of Justice is not new, and it is an old tendency to appoint or elect judges by setting up or proposing a professional and political neutral body, independently and independently from the legislative and executive authorities, and also by judicial authorities. In France, Italy and Portugal, there are state councils for the judiciary, whose jurisdiction includes the choice and resolution of judges and public prosecutors, their progress, the exercise of disciplinary authority, the initiative for the education of the judiciary budget, judicial administration, professional training and others. They are made up of the profession of recognised, affirmative and respected lawyers, judges, public prosecutors, as well as lawyers and law professors, who, by their knowledge, living and professional experience and integrity, can guarantee professional performance of these tasks. And professionalism also in the judiciary contains two qualities: knowledge and conscience! There is legal advice in the law on the courts of the Republic of Montenegro. Serbia's constitution allows such a body to be formed by experts in the republican rank. It would be an institution that would propose the choice of judges and the appointment of judges, public prosecutors and public defenders, so such a choice would be entrusted to the profession and would not depend on the current methods of choice, as proposed by the Justice and Administration Committee, with frequent routine decision-making and ignorance of facts. In this way, a fundamental change would be made in the current choice of judicial officials, who were elected on a proposal from the Justice and Administration Committee. The committee is composed of MPs, and it is clear that the election depends on political factors and the relationship of forces. The same goes for selecting public prosecutors and their deputies. Constitutional solutions also conditioned different solutions regarding the jurisdiction of the High Council of Justice on Judges' Decisions, on the one hand, and public prosecutors and their deputies, on the other. In addition to the proposed solutions that eliminate the current way of influence of MPs, political figures who do not have the knowledge or the time to fully examine candidates' expertise in judicial functions, it is also necessary for free public opinion to have a democratic impact on the choice and status of judicial officials, especially the professional public. In addition, what has so far not caught Parliament's attention, and even the professional public, is the draft law on the public prosecutor's office. The public prosecutor's function is not satisfactorily resolved, although there are no significant obstacles in the Serbian and SRJ constitution. The existing legal solution, contrary to the Constitution of Serbia, has been arranged by the public prosecutor's office as a special type of state government. Public prosecutors are subordinated only to a republican public prosecutor and he to the National Assembly. Public prosecutors and their deputies are almost even with the judges, although there is no basis for such status in the constitution. Some provisions of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office almost indicate that the public prosecutor's office is not only an independent body, but independent, although not prescribed by the Constitution, as well as by the court. Namely, a proposal for the selection of deputies, as well as all district and municipal public prosecutors and their deputies, is submitted to the National Assembly by a republican public prosecutor, not the Committee of the Justice and Administration of Skuština. The Minister of Justice has no authority in this regard. In addition, the rules on the internal affairs of the prosecutor's office are brought independently by a republican public prosecutor, not by a minister, as in the case of the court's Rules of Procedure. In the law on the Montenegrin State Prosecutor's Office, the public prosecutor is the executive authority and nothing more. According to the current solution, the Republic Public Prosecutor of Serbia is tied to the political representatives of the National Assembly of the Committee on Justice and Administration and is not responsible to the executive authority or the expert expert body. It can therefore be said that the only influence on the public prosecutor's office has political factors, both institutional and party, and their possible clientele. The proposed legal solutions come from the fact that public prosecutors are an independent state body under the Constitution, but not a special state authority. The proposal for that law shows a reduction in the authority of the Republic's public prosecutor, with an increase in the powers of the executive authority and through the right of the minister of justice to initiate a procedure for the resolution of all prosecutors and their deputies, as well as to vacate the Republic's public prosecutor, to appoint the official of the Republic's public prosecutor, to initiate a procedure to determine the reasons for the resolution of the republic's public prosecutor. The High Council of Justice, as an expert body, appoints deputies and proposes to elect public prosecutors, and in the second instance lays down the reasons for the resolution of public prosecutors, deputies and republican public prosecutor, and addresses other issues of prosecutor status, in particular the complaint, about the distance of prosecutors and the like. The High Council consists of two public prosecutors, as well as a republican public prosecutor, the justice minister, the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, as well as one member elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of the minister and the republican public prosecutor. It is noticeable that the public prosecutor's office does not have a majority. The opposition by the republic's public prosecutor to a decision detached from the post of the High Council of Justice decides in an extended composition, which makes up six judges, the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, two public prosecutors and two prominent lawyers elected by the National Assembly in the High Council of Justice. The position of public prosecutors and their deputies according to the current legal solution is almost the same as that of judges. The proposed changes are therefore introduced into the constitutional frameworks. It is clear from this proposal that a public prosecutor may have a position similar to that of a judge, but not the same. The deputy public prosecutor, who is not otherwise a constitutional category, does not choose or resolve the National Assembly, and the deputy is not a permanent function under this proposal. With regard to the arrangements and jurisdiction of the public prosecutors, the public prosecutor's office is an independent state body, which prosecutes perpetrators and other criminal offences and takes other actions for which the law has been authorised. No one outside the public prosecutor's office has the right to determine the affairs of the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutors, nor to manage them with confidential cases. The public prosecutor's office is being established as a state authority, so the institution made up of a public prosecutor, deputy prosecutors and staff. With regard to hierarchy, the lower public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor are not required to carry out mandatory instructions which they consider illegal, until they have previously received the opinion of the Republic's public prosecutor, i.e. a direct senior prosecutor, which narrows the possibility of abuse of power. When it comes to the jurisdiction of public prosecutors, the solutions are similar to that which has the existing law, and the paper is that the public prosecutor's request to suspend and delay the enforcement of the judicial decision by force of the law is no longer delayed or suspended, as so far. In addition, the newspaper is that the trade courts are being treated by district attorneys rather than by municipal prosecutors. The Public Prosecutor's Office chapter envisions the institution of the public prosecutor's office, which, when the prosecutor's office is suspended, is represented by a republican public prosecutor and his term of office until the new public prosecutor enters office and for the longest year. The official of the duties of the Republic Public Prosecutor shall be appointed by the minister of justice. With regard to the prosecutor's responsibility, it would be important to strengthen the public prosecutor's responsibility in the upcoming amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. When it comes to conditions of choice, it should be specified that, with other conditions, a public prosecutor may be elected under those conditions provided for by the State Administration Act. The proposal provides for reasons for the termination of duties, conditions for the completion of the working century, grounds for resolution, consequences of the resolution and consequences of the termination of the Deputy Prosecutor's office. Discipline responsibility is also foreseen, and in this respect, the reasons for this type of responsibility are the same as with the judges. That's what we were doing when we suggested this, so we recommend this package of laws to your attention and expect it to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13249	The word has the People's MP Toma Busetic, followed by MP Branko Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13250	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a package of laws in the area of justice proposed by MP Michael can be generally acceptable, although there are many gaps and many shortcomings in any proposal of these laws. This applies first of all to the draft public prosecutor's law. What is good when we talk about the law on courts and the law on the regulation of courts applies primarily to the continuity of the judicial function that has been so far, to the possibility of appeal to the Constitutional Court for a decision on the resolution of judges, to the education of an appeal court, although we now see that there is another agreement, means one appeals court with four departments or three departments, and that is unacceptable to us and I will say later on why. These laws can be acceptable, especially given what the Justice Department is up to. In a proposal from the Ministry of Justice, which has some public debate these days, the work version prefers, above all, the law of discontinuity and according to this proposal, the courts educated by earlier law cease their work on 31 December 2001, while the courts educated by the new law would start working on 1 January 2002. However, the termination of earlier courts would not affect the status of judges. In accordance with Article 101(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The constitution, judicial or judicial function is permanent, so it outlives the court and reform of the judicial system, but as it cannot resolve a judicial function without judges, judges who would be left without courts are followed by new courts. It can only be courts educated by new law. In order for all judges to remain without court, they will all be followed by new courts and will receive them in the general deployment of the founding judges. The position wasn't conditioned by the judge's consent. So the judges would apparently not have lost their jobs just at first sight, and in fact the deployment of judges would mean nothing else until the dismissal of all those politically inadequate judges. How else to interpret the transition of a judge, for example from Čupre in Kikind, from Nis to Subotica to an unprecedented pressure on judges and prosecutors, if that is what the Supreme Court judge Ivosevic calls a reasonable lustration or purification. So when we talk about the draft of these laws, we say that they are acceptable, given what the Ministry of Justice is preparing for us. The Justice Ministry's working version also envisions the establishment of appeals courts in Serbia's cities. Those in the work version see four appeals courts, now we have one court of appeals and three departments, and that's the same thing. So it's not a neck, it's a neck. What does that mean? That means moving the citizens away from the courts. This includes new costs, the introduction of three departments of appeals courts or four, new costs, judges' apartments, the hiring of new judges, the cost of going to public sessions, because now the role and jurisdiction of district courts is changing, and I think we are a very poor country to carry out these reforms, which will certainly be if this proposal is adopted. Appellate courts would greatly devalue the jurisdiction of the district courts, which would in some way now become first-degree courts, and the municipality would formally or in fact be abolished or their role would be minimalised. In these proposals, the education of the Great Personal Council and the High Council of Justice and especially their jurisdiction or their prerogatives is very questionable. Now it was a great opportunity for these proposals to finally establish a judicial budget from where judicial functions would be financed, one of the most important conditions for independence and independence of the judiciary as a whole. Of course, there's no such thing in these proposals. When it comes to proposals and concrete proposals, I believe that the term of office of the President of the Court should not be limited to five years, but should be reduced to two years and that rotation is always desirable. Also, jury judges should be elected by the National Assembly, not appointed by the High Council of Justice, and unlike the proposal for a law on judges and the regulation of courts, which we say are solid, the bill of the Public Prosecutor's Office is very bad and with many failures. The bill puts the prosecutor as an independent state body in the role of the governing body under the hands of the justice minister, which is not good, and the principle of incoherence in the hierarchy has been compromised in the election of prosecutors. So far, the election proposal has been made by a republican public prosecutor, I think of the other municipal and county, the opinion of the judiciary committee, and now again in the proposal, the role would be taken by the high council of justice, which I think is one wrong solution. It is also unacceptable to appoint deputies by the High Council for Justice and the eight-year term of office. Why separate the D.A.'s position and position? Article 67 is also unacceptable: he predicts that the deputy prosecutor's office ends when the time for which he was appointed ends or if the prosecution is suspended. An example can be small municipalities, where we have a hint, regardless of this law, the question is how will all of this go down to the end, to end the prosecutions in small municipalities. In this way, the continuity of the deputy attorney general's office is denied, which is not good. He is also an unreasonable member of 65 on the prosecutor's post at a public prosecutor's office. What does that mean? We have small municipalities again, where we only have one prosecutor and no deputies, and what kind of solemn session does that mean, is he going to celebrate his choice with his typist? I didn't understand this. Or Article 70, which refers to unprofessional performance of duty in accordance with the criteria of the Republic Public Prosecutor. This provision is not clear and precise enough. It is necessary to taxively count what is considered to be inextricable. It is neither acceptable nor Article 75, and in particular Article 3, according to which the first-degree republican public prosecutor is told by the minister in charge of the judiciary. In this way, the republican public prosecutor station is a crack executive of the minister and in general the state prosecutors executives, which is not good, although the promoters here have said that state prosecutors should be blamed by the executive authorities. I think the independence of the state's attorneys should be as high as possible. Article 93 clearly states that the deputy prosecutor's duty is non-permanent, which is also a step back from the current solutions. When it comes to the draft law on seats and areas of courts and prosecutors, I believe that there is a need to predict the number of seats, when it comes to economic courts or trade courts, how many districts there are. This is how we approach citizens to meet their basic needs and when we talk about these economic or trade courts. In the draft law on the High Council of Justice, in Article 4, where calls are discussed and where six judges are elected by the Supreme Court, and of the two members from the public prosecutors' ranks, one is elected by the minister and the other by a republican public prosecutor, both should be elected by a republican public prosecutor. And in the end, I don't think even this set of laws is going to let God know what to fix when it comes to the rule of law. We have seen and in the last year there has been no rule of law, there has never been a worse situation, because over the year, the DOS authorities have committed a major violation of the constitution and Serbia-Yugoslavia and I believe that this set of laws will not help reduce the impact of the executive authority. On the contrary, it will remain the same, and how the SPS will be defined to the end depends on the amendments we have proposed and whether they will be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13251	The next person registered for the discussion is national official Branko Pavlovic, who is not present. I give my word to the MP Branislav Blazic, and the next is the MP, Slobodan Adzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13252	Ladies and gentlemen, the entire Udurma around these laws shows all the tragicity of the time we live in. This tragicity is also reflected in the fact that in five laws, we have been recalculated here, given about two minutes and forty seconds, which is thirty-one seconds under one law. To speak for thirty-one seconds about the law that the proposer said was being passed once and for all, that it was some generational law, it was extremely unserious. It's unserious by a proposing who makes a proposal for such millenniums, centuries-old laws, and the same promoter, the DSS has decreed that we are here talking about such laws for thirty-one seconds. Especially what he says is that it is the beginning of building a legal democratic state. Please, we're back at some point, and what's been going on for a year when after a year, this power is back at some point. The government's obviously working hard from Monday to Friday, but it hasn't moved any further since the beginning. It is also tragic that some committees refuse yesterday, and today they accept this proposal. What happened from yesterday to today, what happened to the government that refused first, and now apparently accepts the bills of law on courts. Where is this government, will it ever come to this assembly to give its opinion, to see what it thinks about this law of the Minister of Justice. I think this is all extremely unserious to discuss so many important laws in this way. It is not good to pass laws like this that they serve in the service of daily politics and that this whole debate is being conducted in this way. I need you to pull that back, so maybe a little more seriously get to the whole problem. They're going for seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13253	I give my word to the MP Slobodan Adzic, and the next reported for the discussion is MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13254	Dear President, honourable fellow Members, I would like to remind you that today the proposals for a law on the public prosecutor's office, on the seats and areas of the courts and public prosecutors, the judges, the High Council of Justice and the regulation of the courts are on the agenda. The adoption of a package of these laws has one basic objective, which is that human rights, subjective rights of every citizen and individual, i.e. by the constitution and by the law guaranteed rights, can be achieved, not only in legal acts. In order to achieve this goal, we need to have a judiciary separate from the executive authority in Serbia and that the legislative authority creates only conditions for the work of the judiciary, but not to interfere with the decision-making process. In order to create a condition for judicial independence, judges need to be independent. Also, one of the main pre-election promises of the DOS was the establishment of a rule of law. There's no rule of law where we have the practice we've had in the judiciary so far. In order to achieve all the above-mentioned objectives, which means that we will live in a normal country, in a country that wants to go to Europe and the world, it is also necessary to pass legislation in the area of justice as soon as possible, which will solve fundamental relations in this area in a different way. This is also the reason why, as a DSS MP, I would like to support the proposal of the head of the DSS parliamentary group, Dejan Michael. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13255	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13256	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected journalists, we have before us a proposal for five important laws, which, according to the proposal of the DSS, need to be arranged one important area. So, the decomposed area was previously solved by one law in five parts, which make up one whole. The ambition of the promoter is also obvious that it has an initiative in parliament to propose legal projects. As an SPS, as a parliamentary group of the political organisation, we will not deal with this -- why the law has not been passed by the government, although it does not make sense, but we will be dealing with the essence of what the proposals are in these five legislative projects. For those people who have had contact with similar law-makers in the past, here, in some sense, the handwriting of SPS personnel is recognised, above all, by Mr. Zoran Balinovac, at least in some segments of what is here today before us. But it's imputing to us that the promoters aren't disgusted by what these people used to do, and that's also not the point. The bottom line is the suggestions we're talking about here today. It was said that if these legal projects were adopted, the judiciary would become independent. I can't help but say that it has already become independent, it has become independent of the Constitution, for for example, because, when a citizen, by law and by the constitution of an executive government of a state, past all rules and norms, is extradited to illegal and paralegal bodies in the world, it is independent of both rights and logic. It is also independent of logic because this assembly with 100 votes against 87 votes for the district attorney in a major city in Serbia has chosen a man who is a forger and who is a tax evasioner. But that's not the whole point. The overall essence of what you are proposing here today and what we are discussing, I hope, is an honest intention to regulate this area in the way that the proposer wants it, what a vision of the regulation of the state, or of that state, and above all of the legal system, which should guarantee legal certainty for the citizens of this country. My colleagues here have already talked about a few things that matter. I'd also have objections to the choice of jury judges. I really don't think it makes sense that judges of jurors, who are also judges, if you agree, in the odd majority of them are always more than we really call judges, chooses high legal advice, and that judges choose Serbia's parliament. It can be logical at first sight, but it has certain consequences, first of all, because the high legal advice is a body which, with all respect to the authority that will sit there, of course, if the law is passed, does everything without public presence, works in discretion and works in a way that cannot be controlled by the public, by the media, or by parliament, which is competent. I'd also like to advocate that district courts and prosecutors' areas overlap with the county's territory wherever possible. With this in mind, I ask my fellow MPs (I have submitted one amendment) that the Municipality Court of Ivanjica and the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Ivanjica are in the future, so that it is in the work of the District Court in Cačka and the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Cačka. It is not logical that the Municipality Court of Ivanjica and the Municipality’s Public Prosecutor’s Office in Ivanjica are now regulated by the organisation so that they have the jurisdiction of the district court and the prosecution in Uzic, because there is no valid reason for that. The Cacca district court is covered by three courts, and the prosecution's three prosecutions, and the Uzic district court and district prosecutor's office cover 12 municipal courts and 12 municipal prosecutors. Please, colleagues, this is not about any party or any other struggle, it is about one functional organisation, that the jurisdiction of the district courts and prosecutors, if possible, is equated with jurisdiction in the territory covered by one district, for a number of reasons. The SPS and its MPs in parliament, if a sufficient number of amendments are adopted (when I say enough, then that means those who, in our opinion, do the proposed legislation in a good way) may be able to support some of these legal projects, either in general, or in part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13257	The People's Messenger Dusan Budishin has the word, but he is absent. The word is Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13258	Today, the Serbian Radicals, you gave us an incredible mercy -- instead of one minute, which you so democratically gave us to the new Rules of Procedure, to talk about the bill's proposals, we got a full two minutes today for four judicial laws. And normally, I have no intention of saying anything concrete about solutions to these legal proposals, because in two minutes it's simply impossible, but I will therefore look at these bill proposals from another aspect, primarily the aspect of morality, or relations in the ruling coalition. On these draft laws, honourable MPs, you've all got the government's answer or you've read it. The government is taxing -- the bill's proposals are bad, the government has better proposals and will soon come to parliament with better proposals. Today, Mr. Michael has informed us that our differences have been resolved. However, the solution to these differences waited from 10 a.m. to 16:30 p.m. Okay, you've settled the disagreements, but one principled question is being asked - are these government laws (the government has not changed its opinion in the meantime, at least has not informed us, MPs), i.e. Batic's laws better, or are the laws proposed by the DSS parliamentary group better? What are the best laws? I think you should get those attitudes in line and come up with the best solution here. It is a pity that Mr. Jovanovic is not present to ask him if these government laws are better, since the government said these are not right or better these bill proposals, proposed by Mr. Mihajlov. How can I plead? We, as MPs, should choose the best proposals of the law. Maybe you've also made some "trouble" compromise and it's certainly at the expense of the judiciary. That's why I'm asking you to answer this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13259	The People's Messenger Rodoljub Sabic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13260	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I won't speak any longer than my colleague Veljkovic, I didn't intend to. Today, there is not something on the agenda that would require that we compare one proposal, which was in the work version of the Justice Ministry, and one proposal that is current, which is ahead of us. It is not today's turn to talk about kidnappings and delivering certain citizens, although I don't mind talking about it any other time. Today was a nice opportunity to talk about something that is extremely important for every normal organized state. So we're talking about a set of laws that should, in a more original and important newer way, arrange a complete judicial system with us. I honestly wish I'd heard more from my opposition colleagues about it. When something is introduced to this extent new, it is always good to hear the opinion of the other side. I have no intention of taking as much time as I have at my disposal, trying to absorb everything, because that would be irrational, because that's five legal proposals. I just want to draw attention to something that, by my deep conviction, is very distinctive and with some belief that I might have some influence on them. First of all, I'm talking about my opposition colleagues. I'm talking about the content of the law on high-level justice council. I allow that we can look differently at the state of society, the state of justice, the need for intervention in it, which is certainly new and which is certainly quite good. Reading that law one way or another, looking at it from the position of government or opposition, we can't help but conclude that it's one important step of emancipation of the judicial authority in relation to the political one, and I'm deliberately not just saying it to the executive. No one can deny the fact that in the future, regardless of all the observations, which can be such and such, and of course, we will continue to choose judges and you know very well that this is not a matter that the legislator could change, it is a matter that is determined by one indeterminately determined, so by the Constitution of Serbia, but we will choose them only on a proposal from the High Council of Justice. I want to remind myself of the relations between the strength and the public of the work. In this council, the high council of justice, the ratio of power will be 7-4. Of course they're elected by the Assembly, but they're not chosen by all. I say again, the ratio of power is 7.4 in terms of the profession and politics, that is, in favour of the profession. What I would like to ask you is that we do not reduce history to the current relationship of power in this House. It's going to change, which is for sure, but I don't know whose benefit. What I find very useful and that I believe none of you can deny is the fact that in Serbia for the first time in the last 60 years we have established a primacy of the profession in relation to politics. We can choose, but we will no longer choose unlimitedly, or we will not be able to choose whom we want. We'll only be able to pick the one behind the waist. Whatever you think about, whatever you think about the impact of the fact that this majority will have an impact on the election of a high council of justice, don't forget the fact that maybe even this majority won't be larger. In one word, what really matters is the characteristics of the law we're talking about, but what actually defines the other elements of the whole project is the fact that we're able to take a big step towards building an independent judiciary. I want to believe it's the interest of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13261	The word has an MP, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13262	I'd like, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to clarify some of the things we've already talked about here. It is said that in this matter, by the idea of the promoter, there is an organisational law, which is designed as an expert body, as a special professional body that will have greater power and not only formally, but also in the general public, with its proposals and will not be able to be reputed in the National Assembly, i.e. you will either have an obligation to accept or in general to refuse or await the same body's proposal. It's about the high council of justice. However, I just need to point out the composition of the High Council of Justice and see who chooses members of the High Council of Justice. Namely, the council has five permanent members. Among these five permanent members, we have a Supreme Court president. Who chooses the President of the Supreme Court? We choose him. Who chooses the minister of justice? We choose him. Who chooses two members, and here they are said to be elected by the National Assembly, the Republic Public Prosecutor, as well. Six members pass by the Serbian Supreme Court. So it could be such a relationship, if you count the President of the Supreme Court, 7:4. All those in the final instance fall under the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's no big deal, it's totally logical. That's what we stand for. But why destroy the powers and prerogatives of the authorities of the relevant parliamentary committees and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to introduce a new body that no new body contributes, except to be called the High Council of Justice, so the people will think that these are some other and much smarter heads than the people sitting here, and these people here are the property to choose these people? So let's end the National Assembly, so that these people don't choose them, but that they choose us, so that we can see who's more important and how we can measure it. Secondly, the predecessor did not talk about where you have a narrow and expanded composition and how you vote. It's mostly voiced. Even the minister of justice, with the control he has, we can also see what the actual situation is today, without any problem, the executive power can achieve most of it at any moment, and thus we are completely countering what the authorities have been and any restrictions to the judiciary. What I said, in the government-sharing systems, there is no complete and strict division anywhere, but there are systems of limitations between the distinct visions of the government. Thus, the legislative authority in certain domains restricts the judicial and judicial restrictions on legislation. So, the point is that nothing significant changes, except that the Damagogical is introduced by a single body that is supposed to be expert, which will be professional and something new and very different to bring to the National Assembly and to our citizens. I don't think we get anything significant, except that we're going to have a lot more problems, a lot more confusion and a lot more ignorance than it's ever been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13263	The word has an offerer, Mr. Michaels.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13264	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed MPs, is the notation that judges will not have a majority in the high council of justice, because it is 7:4 if judges are taken, and if a republican public prosecutor is taken, it is even more changing. It's a notorious lie and those who have regrets about the fact that politics will no longer have an impact on the choice of judges, I'm very sorry. We have fought for it and we want to create a system where the choice of judges will be absolutely separate from the political authority and where the judges will not have the opportunity and will not have to be under the pressure of politics, in order to be patient whether or not they will be chosen. We're fighting for a system where judges will choose judges. The continuity of the judges allows them to choose their judges independently, if they have opportunities, and that is made possible by this proposal. The judges have a majority and the judges will propose judges. That's the essence of our proposal. Other verbal manipulations that, in my opinion, go in the direction that people in appeals courts will have to go to distant places to exercise their rights, are also notorous false. The Court of Appeals doesn't go to judges. It's not the debate that opens before the appeals courts, it's the paperwork. In municipal and district courts, debates are opened and citizens exercise their rights through public debate. In the appeals courts, it is decided by paper, so it doesn't matter if one appeals court with three departments is scheduled or if there are 40 appeals courts. The parties shall not take part in the proceedings before them by giving their arguments orally. It's another of the things that are being brought here as the fact that they're going to collect the process. It's absolutely incorrect. This way of organisation of the judiciary will contribute to economics, above all, is more rational than the one that has been envisaged so far. This organisation of the judiciary provides for mechanisms for the judiciary to act more effectively. That's what's true. I believe that citizens will have opportunities very quickly, when this way of judicial organisation is established, and it will take time to make sure that this is better than what we had and that this organisation of the judiciary is what citizens expect of us. I agree and believe that those who have proposed and prepared proposals for the judiciary law had similar solutions. Of course, we said, and Mr. Mamula said that when it comes to things that matter, you don't need to invent something new, you don't need to move through some exclusivity, but you need to apply the solutions that are known in the world's professional public. That's what we've done now. If any solutions match, that's good. I don't see that that's a bad thing. The only question can be asked why these solutions were not proposed by those when they were on the occasion, but rather kept the current election procedure of judges, where the assembly politically controlled the way the judges were elected. That's one of my questions, and that's for sure, whether we get an answer or not, the point. Why isn't there a department in Pristina? Kosovo municipalities are deployed in courts and in the appeals court departments. Why isn't there a department in Pristina? It is not our will, especially the current parliamentary majority, and especially not the DSS, one part of our territory under occupation. We didn't bring him under occupation, and we didn't make it an occupation. We have to do what's best under the circumstances, in the present state, and we do it. We want this bill to enable people who are now in Kosovo to exercise their rights. That's what this bill looks like. The judges themselves, using statistics and all that they have, insisted, and that is where the draft laws made by the government of Serbia's expert team and this one are exactly at the appeals court's department. The proposal for an amendment of the Board of Administration and the judiciary provides for several sections of the Court of Appeal. It is precisely the insistence of the expert public, who has knowledge of how and how many cases of processing, in which areas there are to introduce more departments of the appeals court. In that direction, we also accepted objections to the bill. We simply thought that one version should be made, that this version should be improved. We're not vain, and we're not going after the proposed solutions as they are, unchangeable. We have incorporated the opinions of the professional public and members of the expert team of the ministry into our proposal and thus want to improve it. There's still a lot of things that affect that. In particular, it should be mentioned that amendments have been accepted that lawyers participate in the choice of judges. It's something that's the same newspaper. That part, which participates in a wider judiciary, should also be allowed to have an impact on the choice of judges. In this way, we want all those most important for the construction of the rule of law to be involved in the process of electing judges, that, in the broader sense, we include them in the judicial system. Just to give everyone a chance. We do not run away from the responsibility to take such a bold step, precisely because we have been given that responsibility to take bold steps and to make cuts in relation to today’s situation. (Alexander Vukic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13265	There's no basis for replication. You're not mentioned by either you or the party, or the parliamentary group. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: he talked about me all the time.) He said I was telling notorious lies. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, there is no basis for replication. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: By the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13266	I refer to Article 98(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would point to only one inaccuracies of the DSS. If you want to draw someone, you address them with the most offensive expressions, you say they speak notorious false, then you tell them the name that at least they have the right gentleman to come out and answer you, not that you think you're saying it without any answer, and you think you say everything you can and no one tells you anything. All I have to say is that all you just said is not true. I didn't say there weren't seven judges. (President: I gave you not the right to speak by the line, but by the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm about to explain where there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Will you let me say it? [[President: But not entering the replica, but explain where there were violations of the Rules of Procedure.]] (President: I will, if you're talking about breaking the Rules of Procedure. For those who do not even have their own rules of procedure, who do not like to read anything, I have listed that member. As for the one where he was actually injured, he was injured in where the short-time speaker said that I had spoken the notor truth, even though everything I said was true, and especially, if you will, I also hurt Article 99. The Rules of Procedure and Rule 101, where he also insulted the SRS parliamentary group, alluding to how we participated in the surrender of Kosovo and Metohija to the occupier, and we did not. We were the only ones in all of Serbia, of all political parties, against accepting the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan, unlike Mr. Michael's party and everyone else. It can't be passed on to us. If there is no argument for the passage of his set of laws, because he thought if he agreed with the rest of the DOS, with the SPS, the SSJ, etc., there would be no critics, then he was wrong. I appeal to the representatives of the promoters, if they have the right to speak at any moment and if they criticise those who have been criticised here, it seems to me, not giving up any, if you will, not even a more difficult word, which may be a criticism of me, but saying only what is wrong with these laws, to go out and to use such expressions, while not having a single argument, then at least say the name and last name of that, or that the president is not being naive and ignorant that he doesn't know who it is and that he doesn't know who it's about. That would be much more honest and humanely correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13267	I assume you're expecting my answer and a statement from the Assembly. So, you've reported from the violation of the Rules of Procedure. As chairman, I cannot use the Freudian methods and I suppose, when Mr. Mihajlov said that the DSS had not participated and was responsible for the situation in Kosovo, that anyone in the hall would recognize it. I don't know if you'll recognize yourself in that responsibility. Besides, you're not the only one responsible. I repeat, according to the Rules of Procedure, you had no right to a replica. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13268	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, in thousands of years of the existence of the Serbian people, this same wise Serbian people have failed the pearls of wisdom, the folk sayings that accurately reflect phenomena, events, the situation, both in the past, and so can be applied today and I believe in the future. What this package of laws paints can be said, "To the saint and the troupe." Why is that? Because we know who the legislators are, and so are the laws. This whole package of laws neither makes sense, nor can it be good, nor can it be in the spirit of what DOS, at least transparently, advocates, as verbally, if nothing else, which is - neither systemic nor reform. What we have now in action can only be said - DOS v DOS. We have something, I hope personally, that will happen in the future, that there will be more and more of it and that in the first next election people will know to determine DOS1, DOS2, DOS3, DOS on the enti, and they will probably put them in some history in the first next election. What I knew personally was that there was always a Cross of Politics at the Hippodrom. Now here in this assembly we have a political cross of individual DOS compared to other DOSs, so whoever makes the law first we'll consider. Obviously, the DSS wanted to do it quickly first. However, he had a chance a few months ago, and you're all witnesses here, that we SRS MPs were looking for Mr. Vladan Batic's replacement of justice. At that time, the same DSS, which is now the legislator of this package of laws, was transparently restrained, and now these laws for which they plead demand that Batic be replaced, because here they, thank God, have passed better laws. The laws aren't right, and I'll vote against them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13269	The word is made by MP Zoran Radovanovic, and then by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13270	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we need to talk about a package of laws relating to the judiciary. However, whenever the word - package is mentioned, I remember the legendaryly bad package of tax laws of Minister Djelic, so I find it difficult. Otherwise, the bill's proposals are in principle good. There are some details that need to be explained and elaborated a little bit. What I particularly appreciate is that these laws remind me of a bill or a draft that he gave to the SPS in 1996 and 1997. It is five proposals -- the court's office, the judges' offices, the high council of justice, the public prosecutor's office and the seat of courts and public prosecutors. I will read to you, to be exact, I have the right, according to the new Rules of Procedure, one text published yesterday in the paper of the senior DOS official, otherwise the minister of justice. Blitz, 29. Ten. In 2001, Kursumlia. I quote: "In a czaric cut in the pavud, which is otherwise very painful, which will still have to be carried out, it also means that, in accordance with my powers, I will soon publish a list of judges who are not wanted in the judiciary," Minister Batic said at a press conference. "When the names of those who have falsified election results in the election commissions, those who have enjoyed various privileges and received apartments and loans, tried political inexperiences, conducted mounted trials against other peoples, other states, as well as those who, by their ineffectiveness and incompetence, will no longer be able to be, I expect judges to withdraw themselves. Judges on the list will not be able to deal with lawyering, because with the President of the Bar of Lawyers an agreement has been reached not to allow them to engage in such activity." The statement was issued yesterday by the minister of justice, the day before the session to discuss a package of law related to the judiciary. Why do I mention Minister Batic and what does he have to do with this package? First, the minister of justice's post is mentioned in almost all the proposals of these laws, and as minister proposes this, the minister suggests it. Since Mr Jovanovic, who is not here now, as head of one of the 176 DOS parliamentary groups, asked the opposition to make concrete proposals, here I suggest that wherever the minister of justice is mentioned, and thought of Batic, that part of the members is deleted, or possibly what is much easier, simply replace Minister Batic. Anyway, a few months ago, he escaped a shift in this room just because a part of the people in the hall had been restrained, more specifically than he had received fewer votes only Canak the other day in the Vojvodina Assembly. If I were him, I'd resign, as he says, for moral reasons, because a man passes a tax law and retreats. A man submits to criminal law, so he retreats. It is true that the situation in the judiciary is poor both in material and professional terms. Instead of raising salaries, instead of providing better conditions for the work of people in the judiciary and thus helping and changing the situation in a material sense, instead of improving the situation in a professional way, receiving new young professionals, the minister receives people with an average score of 5.99 on basic studies, people with a student internship that will be equal to the job internship of people who are in front of retirement and ultimately people who have as much to do with legal science as I do. Instead of doing all this, the minister of justice, instead of sitting here, is threatening the newspapers. He threatens and definitely confirms the tendency to put pressure on the holders of judicial functions at all levels. It is true that it exists, and it also shows an anti-constitutional replacement of the role of judicial, executive and legislative authorities. A package of law on the judiciary must be subject to urgent, normal adoption of our amendments, to be adopted in order for the minister to stop giving interviews and to be definitely responsible for what he says once and for all. First, he threatens the judges, threatens some of his powers, threatens the unwanted. Second, he threatens those who led the process against other peoples. I'm asking all of you, against whom are the people that the judges led the proceedings, against whom the state of the court led these trials. Unless the people count on those ballistics they let past all the decisions of the court instead of trading them for 1,300 of our people. Third, he says the judges pull themselves out so he doesn't get them out of work. Very interesting thesis from the first man of justice. Fourthly, he's threatening to make a deal with the President of the Bar Association that these people won't even be able to deal with law enforcement when he gets them out of work or when those people pull themselves out of their seats. As far as I know the laws, this statement abolishes these people's right to work. Is there anything more interesting than knowing that law on justice is written by MPs and that labour laws are written by trade unions? A very good estimate, and anyone who doesn't understand will understand. The laws, even written by MPs, must be passed as no one else, such as Mr. Slobodan Milosevic, would be delivered to any other state than the Constitution of this country. And, in the end, through concrete examples, I'll explain why this is all important. First, the draft law on the regulation of courts, Article 5, says - the use of public office, the means of public notification, or any public hearing affecting the course and outcome of the procedure, is prohibited. I remind you, and here's "Blic" makes it clear, in which all of this is said in the newspapers and on which all of the televisions of the Socialists and some other people, above all, are accused, condemned, and ultimately judged through newspapers and judgments. Secondly, the proposal for a law on judges, article 12, says - the judge is moving away when he is given detention. It may be removed from duty when proceedings for its resolution or criminal proceedings for which it may be resolved. I explained through that "Blic" a moment ago the unsuspecting and irresponsible attacks of Mr. Minister on all the people in the judiciary, because he made it clear - everyone sits down, and we'll judge which one of you was good or good enough to be a judge again. Thirdly, as regards the Proposal for a Law on the High Council of Justice, it has been repeatedly explained when it is said that the Assembly committees confirm, or make proposals, and the Assembly confirms them, thus ousting impartiality, that is, the fact of political parties. I mean, and here it's already heard of a pay phone, that both prosecutors and judges, Supreme Court judges and presidents, and these two that are given by the National Assembly, are re-elected by the National Assembly, and that's a reflection of the bias of the judiciary. There's another issue about experts. I don't want to talk about experts so I don't earn a fine. Fourthly, under the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, a member of the 25-year-old official of the Republic's public prosecutor is appointed by the minister in charge of the judiciary. Guys, this is terrible. Imagine giving powers to Prime Minister Vladan Batic and him seducing the prosecutor, setting up Milan Panic or Miki Savivić, and dealing with all the problems. To conclude, since we all realized that this matter is very important, that there are a lot of problems related to the work of the judiciary, I suggest, since the draft, as Mr. Mamula said, has its background, and the background of this draft is the SPS, that you accept our amendments and that we adopt this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13271	The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, let's be clear that we are at the end of today's working hours I will try to be as brief as possible. Today, we are considering proposals for legislation given by the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary club. On many sides, on the one hand, and on the other and on the third hand, there are objections as to why the proposals of the law were made by one parliamentary club. All those who submit these criticisms, completely unfounded, would remind me that any MP, as well as the parliamentary group, the government and the competent ministry, are authorized under the Constitution to submit draft laws. So the essential question in these bill proposals is whether these are quality proposals and whether that's what the state, our state, is needed at this point. There were no significant objections on that side. I even estimate that on all sides, that is, by all MP clubs, this hour of the bill is generally assessed as good. We from the Democratic Party of Serbia do not consider this to be some very important scientific action in the area of lawmaking and the domain of justice, so we will accept all the criticisms that have been put forward in good faith and in order to improve legal solutions. In that sense, the president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. Mr. Dejan Mihajlov, he made it very clear that all those remarks that are in the domain of improving the resolution of these laws from the domain of the judiciary will certainly be accepted. We are neither able nor we have the pretense to invent some new laws, which are not known in legal science and legal practice. On the other hand, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group can freely boast, find some solutions, as it may be from some other parliamentary group, that they believe that some of the solutions in these laws may sometimes remind them of their solutions, but on the other hand, it is obvious and generally known that the solutions they allegedly did not have passed. They probably did not have enough political power or hearing to improve the status, or independence of the judiciary. What I would certainly like to say is that it is also known to everyone that in the past period, especially over the past ten years, the judiciary, as well as the whole society, has fallen to low branches. It's not a basic problem, but the biggest problem is that we had bad laws from the justice domain. Most fundamentally, the judiciary was dependent on the executive authority, or political power centres, and much less on the legislative authority. On the other hand, in addition to this addiction, the judiciary was not independent because of the situation itself, and this should also be mentioned and is a fundamental part of the intensity of these laws in the domain of justice, and because of the fundamental material and economic position of the judges. In such a consolidation of forces and in such conditions of the impoverished society, the impoverished judiciary, the majority of the judiciary, the majority of judges performed their duty with honor and integrity, but also part of those judges were forced to submit to these various influences by the executive and political authorities. Whether it was intentional or most often coercive, it doesn't matter. It's important that we had a judicial system that led things to justice to absurdity. I won't remind you of some laws that have been passed just in order to degrade the judiciary and bring the judiciary into some absurdity, proving that everything that the political authorities want is possible. There's the courts in the area of a misdemeanor against the media. So there are many examples that in this past period, especially in these ten years, the judiciary has been brought to the lowest branches. We must agree that without an independent, professional, quality judiciary we cannot enter, I am talking about us who promised this last year on behalf of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, in any important and quality change to us. I would remind again that an extremely important function and in the privatisation process will have particularly commercial courts. Therefore, the solutions given by the laws of the domain of the judiciary are not disputed in any other way, so they are not disputed from a professional or legal point of view, but rather an attempt to dispute in the light of some insinuations as to why who suggested, why did this proposal or the one propose it. There are no important and essential remarks, and this proves that the solutions made by these laws are precisely the ones that will create conditions for a better organisation of justice, and on the other hand, it will directly mean that it will create conditions for further progress of society in all domains and in all spheres. Therefore, normally, along with amendments that are correct and that will improve the text of the laws and institutes provided for by these laws, I believe and think that this is the assessment of most of us MPs in the Assembly, that these laws should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13273	Replica, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13274	Ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow MPs, since a number of debaters have challenged the similarity of the text that the former government found in the work version in 1996 and 1997 as a draft in relation to the solutions proposed, I only want a small replica. I've been here in front of me with a work version of the law on the regulation of courts since 7 November. In 1996, the Ministry of Justice, which differs in two or three things from this bill, which we think is also quite good. These differences come down to whether trade courts will be called commercial or commercial courts and whether they will be called the judicial guard or the judicial police in the head of the court security. So that's about the difference between these two texts. It really doesn't matter, it's important for this House to come up with a quality proposal, but for the sake of truth. The second thing, the realization of this concept was not just for that reason, which following the establishment of the draft was the formation of a new government, in which one of the coalition partners laid down a condition that no draft and no draft law that was not laid down in the assembly procedure, and found in the previous government would not be able to automatically be found before the assembly. And that was the only reason these 1997 laws were not found in the congregation procedure in 1998, and it was not political impotence or desire. So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-30-0.u13275	Thank you very much. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 134 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for work, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they will be absent from the following MPs: Višnja Nežić, Milos Radivojčević, Borisvoje Drakulović, Golub Rajić, Mihajlo Marković, Zoran Novaković, Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Bojana Aleksic, Boško Ristić, Goran Ćirić, Milan Milosavljevic, Slavoljub Matić, Vladan Jovičić, Radic Jokovic, Živorad Rakovic, Milos Lukić, Petar Madžarevic, Bojan Kostreš, Petar Misić, Branislav Pomorijski, Dušica Angelković, Goran Vesic, Juhas Atila, Predrag Bajčetić, Stanko Kovačević, Cedomir Jovanovic and Dragan Jočić. In the morning, Radomir Naumov, Marko Djurisic and Aleksandra Joksimovic were absent, and in the afternoon, Jakov Stamenkovic and Pal Shandor. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - THE PROPOSAL OF THE COURT OF COURT, JUDGET, THE High COUNCIL OF THE COURT, THE PUBLICATION OF THE COURT AND THE COURT OF COURT AND OF THE COURT OF COURT AND OF THE COURT OF COURT (the Continuum) We are continuing a joint review of the draft law on the regulation of the courts, the draft law on the High Council of Justice, the draft law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the draft law on the seats and areas of the courts and public prosecutors. The word is by MP Jovan Todorovic, followed by MP Milan Radulovic.
