ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2554	Mr President, the Honorable Presidency of the ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we extend today's work from 19.30 to midnight, and that at midnight, the Assembly and MPs be made aware of whether they are ready to continue their work during the night, given that we have another 250 amendments and the obligation to adopt, as soon as possible, the proposed package of laws and the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2555	Dear President, honourable fellow Members, I propose that we work in the Rules of Procedure, given that the possibility of working extremely Fridays is envisaged, as we were told here a few days ago that the work of the Assembly must be completed by Friday, however, the number of amendments and the number of speakers actually speak of that being not so important. It is much more important, in our opinion, that the content of the proposals made and what this assembly will adopt and we believe that there is no reason to extend, let alone extend after midnight. There is no rational reason for the Assembly to do more than the Rules of Procedure provide.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2556	I suggest we work until 7:30, and at 7:30 if there's a smaller number of amendments left and we estimate that we have time to finish by midnight to decide on an extension then. Otherwise, most MPs here don't use stimulant means and we can't work longer than 19.30 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2557	We have two suggestions. One proposal by MP Cedomir Jovanovic to deal with up to 24 hours, with the possibility of making a decision and a possible continuation of work. The second proposal is for MP Stamenkovic to be working until 19.30pm, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please let us be clear about this. First, we declare the proposal of MP Cedomir Jovanovic. For 128, against 25, no one was abstentioned, four, a total of 157 MPs. We declare the proposal by MP Stamenkovic to be in place until 19.30. Please plead. For 38, against 125, two abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 172 MPs. I agree that Parliamentarian Cedomir Jovanovic's proposal has been accepted, that we will be working within 24 hours, with a subsequent decision on whether we will continue to work. We'll take a break as agreed. First break at 14 hours usually, and then we'll make a deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2558	I've reported to the Rules of Procedure for a simple reason to clarify, to precisely define how far this assembly works. We can't make a decision to work until 24 hours, and if necessary, we'll decide later. The Rules of Procedure are precise. Before the start, decisions are made as long as the Assembly works. If it works up to 24 hours, which is voted, we interrupt at 24 hours. There's no way someone can come out and suggest we work until it's over. I didn't know you were that smart. You've joined Europe, but then you have to make a decision, it has to be officially declared, so it can come out and suggest itself. This is how we play, this is not serious. We need to be precise. I feel the need to make a drama out of this assembly, there is also dramatist Ceda Jovanovic, it is Neda Arneric's school. Either we work 24 hours or you suggest a different decision, and we can't play like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2559	We have already discussed this in previous sessions that a decision can be made at the beginning of the day, but there is a possibility to be made during the session, and at the end of the work. Besides, you forget that, say, we can work up to 24, and I can schedule a session in 12.15 minutes. We're not having a discussion. We've already voted on that. We voted something, you objected to a broken Rules of Procedure. I've given you an explanation, and you can say you're not happy and I'll put it to a vote. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2560	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on Wednesday, when I went out for this pay phone, I said that this budget for 2001 was the budget of the proposal that was being made upside down. The budget for 2000 was first to be adopted, for last year, and then discussed the 2001 budget. But, as it's all done upside down, that's how it's done, so now I'm going to - based on my amendment in Article 7, Section 36, position no. The 178th Analytical Conto 911-029, is 157,128,000 dinars, type of expenditure, these are the costs of purchasing office materials, technical and other joint jobs for the needs of the republican authorities and organisations and the exploitation of the vehicle - ask for that position to be deleted. This means that in the box of everything instead of 688,628,000 dinars, there are now 531,500,000 dinars. I'll explain why. I said it was necessary, first, to discuss the 2000 budget, then the 2001 budget, because in this section, which is now 36, but for 2000 it is 44, where 47.9 million are said to be needed for salaries at the Republic Authority's Joint Affairs Office. In 2001, it was indicated here that it was a salary for 882 employees. That same item is 109 million dinars. The Sappac mineral fertiliser factory needs an annual salary, for about the same number of employees, 25 million dinars. Now you see what this point of 109 is. I deliberately took the last break, precisely because Mr. Minister, probably not knowing where and how to put the expenditure, but probably finally put the expenditure more, so he'll take it when he needs it. I've noticed that Mr. Secretary writes with his left hand, and these laws are probably left too, so we'll see in the future. Furthermore, what's very important here is that in the 2000 budget, item three provides for 27 million dinars. Now 157 million are scheduled. Now you see the difference. Approximately, I think it's about 138 million. However, I would suggest that these funds, which are this small, are about 157,128,000 dinars, be transferred to the cost of agrarians, but exclusively for the needs of mineral fertiliser factories.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2561	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 46, against 116 abstentions, there was no vote of 15, out of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was also submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2562	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Section 3, Section 12. These are allocations in a budget called funds for the work of the bureau and agencies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is often mentioned behind this speaker, even in the government's election, that she is expert. She's really an expert now. A budget like this, with a position like this, only experts can bring. In the light of this section is the next finding, which really assures me that this is an expert government. The finding says, "And for the work of the Bureau and the government agencies, the amount of 10 million dinars." That expert explanation, for which this budget item is foreseen. Expertically, there's nothing. What's a fact and what distinguishes this position from last year's budget is that this is a newly introduced item. What's also a fact and what we can realize, that in no sentence, except for the one that says you need to allocate funds, you don't say what you need to do. It remains for every MP, and for every citizen of the Serbian state, to share these funds according to their own ideas, and the government will be very transparent, and we will one day find out what it was for. For the time being, there is no transparency, except in a declarative statement that this government will be transparent in its work. That's why I'm asking what the government's work is, what are the bureaus, what are these agencies? The rest of us MPs and the entire population are now in a position to see that the forces defeated at the 8th session. Besides, I didn't say that, said a colleague who went out for this pay phone yesterday, and he's from DOS. Apparently, he is part of those defeated forces at the 8th session, which has now been vampireized and which is now returning from mere rematchism to those who won the 8th session. And what will happen to the vast part of the population, which has no connection with the 8th session, which did not take part in the 8th session and who thank God, was never in the Union of Communists. It's obviously those bureaus for those who were defeated at the 8th session. There are also former generals, and there are those who have a party internship, and maybe more than I am, and I have quite a few. Could be the agencies, as counterpart Mircic said, for a business escort. God forbid they are, but obviously we can think they might be. You also have ministers who have come from far away. You have those who are separated from the family. There are those from here, from Serbia, and now because of their work in the government, they live in Belgrade. There are who are from Belgrade, who have gone to be guarantors of their factories, the FMP Trade, and again to plant an army and police there something in the Homeland Security Zone. Maybe they're real agencies for that business escort. Keep us from such a government. What I have suggested is that these funds, which are terribly transparent and for which no one knows where they will be spent, will be transferred where they are more necessary. I have proposed this amendment to transfer to division 13 positions 73, which is the Ministry of Tourism. I hope Mr Kovacevic will support this from DOS, because it is obvious that the funds provided for the promotion in tourism are not enough, and I think we need to know that Serbia has great, great conditions for tourism, and both mountain-mounted, rural tourism and Banish tourism and everything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2563	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2564	If nothing else, tourism is more necessary than these business escort agencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2565	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment of MP Bozidar Vujic to the vote. For 51, against 122, no one abstained, voted 10, a total of 183 MPs present. I find that this amendment has not been accepted by the National Assembly. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop - Lazic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2566	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our Rules of Procedure are scheduled for an MP to be able to submit an amendment to the bill, and that is to Article 138. That's what I want to remind you and the public because of the fact that, of this assembly, your prejudice and your press wants to present one theater, because at the end of the third journal yesterday, the speaker said, tomorrow the assembly performance continues. Gentlemen, there is no play in any case, because we are indeed making a great effort to convince the government, the representatives of the government, who are not here, but Minister Djelic and Minister of Health, in this way, to improve the text of the budget. I have made an amendment to this amount of funds provided for the coordination body for three southern municipalities, given above all that this assembly home is not known to the government's programme for this coordination body. If the government had made a minimum effort, to explain the budget in a few sentences the programme might not have initiated such amendments on our part on this issue. In view of the person who should have these means, which is said much yesterday, I don't want to repeat myself. Also, it is inappropriate for a man like Nebojsa Covic to be trusted daily, and I have calculated that, 45 thousand German marks, not knowing what. However, in order not to talk about Nebojsa Covic and those who make up DOS and the government of Serbia, I will read something that is Nenad Canak, let's say about those with whom he is in the coalition. Nenad Canak says this, I'm talking about the character of Dragan Vesenov, who would be funny if he wasn't grotesque, I won't talk. It's the man who should be (and I'll get to Covic)... (President: Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please don't read the paper here, but let's discuss the amendments. Read that newspaper at home. )......................................................................................................... behind bars, not in government. These petty pranks of his, and from the Chetniks of 1990 to the autonomists in 1996... (President: Please return to the topic. )......................................................................................................... and then he was urgently redefined, stealing the name, program and emblems of the Vojvodina Coalition, and what was the court ruling about, and you know...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2567	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, second time I'm warning you, please stop...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2568	Don't remind me, Mr. President, I can explain my amendment the way I think it's most appropriate. He says, "Today he's supposed to be in agriculture, which he knows just as much as he needs from early Marx's work"...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2569	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I take your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2570	You can take away my word, I can turn to you, so I can talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2571	You can, you can have it. Here's a microphone. (The People's MP Gorana Pop - Lazic stands behind the pay phone and talks. ) Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I took your word and asked you to leave the pay phone already. We won't read the newspaper here, and that way I will treat every MP, every party, whether it's from the government or the opposition, unless it sticks to what's on the agenda. (The People's MP Gorana Pop - Lazic still stands behind the pay phone and talks. ) Do you know what it means when a word is taken away by the Rules of Procedure, do you know when a MP is asked to come down from a pay phone, to leave a pay phone, what should be done? It should be done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm taking a five-minute break. [[Resume session at 11.00 hours.]] I have to teach the MPs, you who have returned, you have to pull them out and drag them in, let's learn a little about what to do. I figure we can get back to work. Is anyone else answering for the amendment word? According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2572	First I report to the Rules of Procedure, then after the amendment. In accordance with Article 28. Rules of Procedure, Mr. President, you are still very unbiased and biased in the conduct of these sessions. Never happened to interrupt the DOS MP if he was moving away from the agenda. Here you are preventing the MP from presenting the explanation he has prepared for his amendment. Yesterday it was in an even more drastic form. You distracted me while I was putting out what contained my written explanation for the amendment. You allowed yourself yesterday to accuse the SRS that we were responsible for supporting Slobodan Milosevic and being with him in the government. Yes, we are responsible for that, Mr. President. Why are you saying that from that position? After all, we are responsible for being in government with Slobodan Milosevic. But the Democratic Party of Serbia and Vojislav Kostunica are responsible for Nenad Canak becoming president of the Vojvodina Assembly, which Zoran Djindjic is the president of the Serbian government, which Gašo Knezevic is minister of education... (President: Where is the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Seselj? )......................................................................................................... Vladan Batic is the minister of justice, which Goran Svilanovic is foreign minister, so what's worse -- to be in a coalition with Socialists and Milosevic or to be in a coalition with Canka, Djindjic, Batic, Svilanovic, Gaš Knezevic and others. Please tell me what's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2573	This was just another abuse of the right to report to the Rules of Procedure, so you can bring out something that has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure. So, I have nothing to say to you, except answer the line, but that's the right thing I'm going to do now. Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2574	I'd like to say a few words about part two of this amendment, regarding the position of the Constitutional Court. We don't have a Constitutional Court right now, and the question is when do we have it? When the government, or ministers resign, they continue to perform their duties, until the election of new ministers or deputies perform those functions. When the President of the Republic dies or resigns, the President of the Assembly performs that duty. When the president of the assembly leaves or, God forbid, dies or resigns, there are vice presidents. Therefore, there is a possibility for each system institution to replace the holder of that function, in order to ensure that the function remains intact and that the system itself is functioning. There's no such thing as a constitutional court. When out of nine judges, five judges go, the Constitutional Court doesn't exist because they don't have deputies. You see, Mr. President, how you even react to our political struggle here in this assembly. I don't want to talk about Nebojsa Covic anymore, because he can't come as Deputy Prime Minister to hear what MPs think about him, but yesterday through state television, lies, DOS visions, answers me and says I'm a vampire, that I'm a lunatic and who knows what he said in his delirium. Your second official, Stevan Liliæ, in today's "Today's" list, is seeking an SRS ban. He says it's the only way...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2575	Mr. Seselj, please stop reading the daily newspaper, you can do this in a break, but not at the assembly session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2576	I don't read the papers, I show them. This is where I show you how this congregation works. It wouldn't be worse if you all took today's number, because it has a very interesting text from Professor Zoran Tomic... (President: Don't advertise the newspaper from the pay phone.) ....................................................................................................... And the Minister of Education. Read it in the "Today" list, I'm not going to read it to you, of course, I'm talking about today's number.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2577	Please stop the pay phone to advertise the newspaper.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2578	I don't advertise the paper, that newspaper has always been against me, Mr. Martian. I can advertise "Great Serbia" or "Serbian Freedom Thought", or "Radical Waves", not your newspaper. Now I'm showing you what your newspaper is publishing, which is worth reading. This assembly cannot work in a democratic atmosphere unless all MPs are equal. To return to the Constitutional Court, no one here will answer what the ruling majority's intentions are regarding the Constitutional Court. It simply suits you that there is no Constitutional Court. You drove the judges into retirement before you provided them with deputies. It can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2579	Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2580	I'm sticking to the agenda. You're predicting the budget...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2581	Not with your hand, not with your hands, but with what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2582	How are you holding up the agenda, Mr. Martian, are your feet holding up, your teeth? I assume you stick to the agenda and make it impossible for the opposition to criticise the government on the draft budget. What hurts you the most is that you avoid the power of the messengers in the microphone, or that you prevent the messengers from speaking. There's no Constitutional Court, people. The state can't function without the Constitutional Court. No government organ can work properly. You don't want to fill out the Constitutional Court. You have the opportunity to vote anyone for the Constitutional Court Judge, you have a sufficient majority here in the Assembly. You don't even care to choose the worst judges of the Constitutional Court. Not only the economists, but also the lizards. You care that there is no Constitutional Court. That's the basic problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2583	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment of MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to the vote. For 55, against 124, there were no abstentions, no four votes, and a total of 183 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the amendment promoter want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2584	First, I would like to thank the finance minister for the cookies he just gave to the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. The cookies were really sweet, Mr. Minister, just as much as DOS promises in the election campaign. The cookies were sweet, Mr. Minister. They're just having a hard time swallowing. The Serbian people will find it even harder to swallow such legal cakes, and they will have to do their best, even to skin off their backs, to do so. Mr. Minister, you're fed up, and "sit doesn't trust the hungry." Of your cookies, the Serbian people will be even more hungry. As regards the amendment to Article 7. The draft budget law for 2001, I gave the amendment four points. The most important concern is the funds provided for the census in the Republic of Serbia. Under heading 145, analytical conto 911-029, amounting to 200 million new dinars, from the Statistical Fund and from the position 152, division of the Republic Geodetic Institute, since approximately the same funds are intended for the preparation of the census and the Republic Geodetic Institute. The explanation - currently, due to the occupation of the territory of the AP Kosovo, for which we can well declare Mr Perisic, vice-president of the government, is not possible, and certainly is one of the most responsible for the occupation of southern Serbia, because he knew that the attack of terrorist groups is being prepared, and why we can blame it on Nebojsa Covic, who has been stalling this problem to reach these 500 million dinar funds. According to this amendment, I have proposed that 200 million new dinars be given education, and that is intended for salaries based on basic, secondary and higher education, because it is true that education is not specifically produced, but education is concerned with the production of personnel that will manage this country tomorrow. It takes a certain stimulation to give education as best as possible to produce such personnel. In position 149, under an analytical line 911-029, 50 million dinars are intended for anti-grader protection. So far, there have been a lot of stories, especially from Minister of Agriculture Veselinov, about irrigation, about the damage that droughts can produce in agriculture, but it is forgotten that in those parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia that are affected by the city are often and 100%. The previous government launched an anti-urban protection programme. Radar systems have been designed, which were partially damaged during NATO aggression, and it remains only to obtain missiles. I believe that with these extra 50 million dinars that in the Republic of Serbia agriculture will be better protected from such elemental disasters, but at least I am surprised why it is not, these funds, deployed - for the anti-building protection of the Ministry of Agriculture, because it is directly interested. Maybe because Mr. Vesenov is 24 hours a day 12 drinks whiskey and 12 hours sober. From all this, I think this amendment should be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2585	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2586	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs and this amendment should be accepted because it is based on a request to redistribute within the budget amount itself, to increase funds for the Ministry of Education, regardless of our trust in the current Minister of Education, Gaš Knezevic, but I hope that he will soon be replaced. But the Ministry of Education needs much more money and to increase the funds involved in protecting agriculture from the city and other things. Now I have to make a correction, because I thought Minister Djelic was an incompetent minister, but in the meantime I found out he was a good student of the French school of political economy. You know, in the French school of political economy, the case of Queen Maria Antoinette, who, when told that the people had no bread, told her to eat cookies. Well, here's our Minister Djelic, as a good student of the French School of Political Economy, because he takes away bread from the people, because after these taxes and this kind of budget, the people really won't have bread, he started sharing cookies. He began with the MPs, I hope that he will regularly share cookies with all citizens, and if regular citizens get their own portion of the cake they can forget about the bread.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2587	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, on behalf of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group, I propose that this amendment be accepted, given that it is the funds that do not increase the resources provided for in the budget. I especially believe that position 145. - Costs of preparation for the census - should be deleted from this budget, because we don't think a census should be made this year. The census should not be carried out until we resolve the crisis in southern Serbia and until our people, citizens of Serbia, return to Kosovo and Metohija, until the Serbs, Montenegrins, Gorans, Muslims and all other non-Albanians who had to avoid it, and there are about 350,000 of them. If we do this year's list, because I see that the budget already provides for a census item, then we might be able to make a few new categories of population appear. That the Bosniaks appear to us and that the Dukes appear to us. You know that yesterday, the Vojvodina Assembly adopted a platform that is the beginning of the end of the Vojvodina composed of Serbia and Yugoslavia. Given the public statements made by DOS leaders from Vojvodina, especially Mr. Chanko, Mr. Veselinov and Mr. Kasa, it is clear that their programmes are separatistally adjusted, so this census could introduce a new category and a new national group - the Vojvodjans. In Vojvodina live Serbs 70%, live Hungarians, Slovaks, Shokci, Bunjevci, Romanians, Russia and Vojvodina are both large and beautiful and rich in room for all of them, but certainly there is no room for a new category, or for a new ethnic community. We also believe that the new census will promote a new ethnic community that wants to call itself Bosniaks. Rasim Ljajic, one of the leaders of Muslims in the Raška area, not Sandzak, because it is still the Raška area, insists that Muslims be renamed Bosniaks. This means that Serbia is not their home country, but that it wants Bosnia and Herzegovina to be their country of origin and not be Serbian, but Bosnian. Against it, all Serbian citizens should stand up because it means tomorrow they will demand a secession from Serbia and unification with Bosnia and Herzegovina's Ali Izetbegovic. That is why the Serbian Unity Party insists and urges everyone to delete this item of the budget and not to execute the census this year, because I say we will be richer for two more ethnic communities, which will come heads of Serbia and Yugoslavia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2588	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment of MP Veroljub Arsic to the vote. For 56, against 123 abstentions, there were no votes, no votes, of a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2589	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, under the Constitution, the government is responsible for its work to the Assembly. Over the past three days, we have had the opportunity to hear more debates of MPs and a large number of amendments discussed. According to the results and decisions of the Assembly according to the amendments submitted by the MPs, it is obvious that the National Assembly is in a subordinate, inferior position, in relation to the Government and its views. Why do you see, when the Government rejects the amendment of the People's Parliament, the MPs, or most of them, are not engaged in the essence of the amendment, they are not engaged in the importance of the amendment tabled. It is a miracle that almost one amendment, which even invested some of the committees in the congregation, was not accepted. I'm afraid the government will have a decisive influence, as executive authority, against the legislative authority. In relation to the budget and Article 7, I have invested an amendment by division, where I have pointed out that the cost of the President of the Republic should be reduced from 10 million to five million, given that he today has no authority, those he had, and his function and content of his work is not as expressed as before, because many of the authorities are taking over the government. That's why I think these costs are too high and that they should be reduced to five million dinars from 10 million. In Section 3 - The Government of the Republic of Serbia, Position 12, these are the costs intended for bureaus and agencies - I believe that these costs should be reduced here too. We would have saved from 10 million to 5 million, because we know that the government has its own professional services, professional people, and that it doesn't have to expose the state to costs and pay for something that doesn't have to be paid. As for the Ministry of Finance, I'd like to mention the Co-ordination Body, too, for these three municipalities. I agree with yesterday's debate that it is necessary to provide police and military and shoes, and socks, and clothes and shoes, in general, and even defence equipment. I think there's room for these funds to be rerouted and used by the military and the police. In relation to the Ministry of Finance and Economy, Split 6, Position 33, Health Fund - I believe that health care is in a very difficult position at the moment and that the personal incomes of healthcare professionals are very low and should be increased and therefore I believe that this position should be doubled. The same is true in position 34, when it comes to the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund, the funds should also be increased, and doubled, because the pensioner's position today is very difficult, and the prices of some products have increased even 300%, so they do not have the opportunity to maintain and maintain their life existence today. In section 5 - The Ministry of Justice and local self-government has allocated 95 million to the rehabilitation of prisons, as well as criminal and correctional institutions. However, no explanation has been given. I don't know if it's about the recovery of those damaged objects. If it's about resuscitating damaged objects, then in that case, I think this position should remain. As for the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, position 72 provides for 23.5 million dinars, however, no one today is involved in tourism, and on the other hand, the costs of inspection services are paid from other sources and therefore this item should also be rerouted to other areas, and above all to health, pension fund, education and education. The Ministry of Education and Sports should increase its positions as much as 10,550,000 for salaries should be given 20,000,000,000, but here's how - that funds for special purposes should be abolished, because the means of special purposes of 20,000,000 can be manipulated and there are no specifications for these expenditures, for which purposes they should be spent. Those 20,000,000 for special purposes will mainly be used and will be decided solely by ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and no one will have the opportunity to control them. As for health care, pensions, agriculture, which is also in a very difficult situation, funds should be increased, as well as children's protection, because these funds for special purposes cover these expenditures to increase these four groups, which I was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2590	Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I am putting the amendment of MP Petar Jojic to the vote. For 59, against 122 abstentions, there was no vote by seven MPs, out of a total of 188. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petrovic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. I would like to put this amendment to the vote and ask that MPs be made known about the amendment of MP Radojko Petric. For 56, against 117 abstentions, there were no 13 votes, a total of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2591	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment refers to several headings in Article 7 and I would first like to say that this amendment does not increase the volume of funds, but only redistribution is carried out, so within the existing means. The first part of the amendment concerns the Republic of Serbia Development Fund. The current proposal envisions 497mm of 300,000 dinars being allocated to the Republika Srpska Development Fund for this year. My amendment envisions an increase of 950 million dinars and an increase of 1,447,300,000 dinars. This difference of 950 million would be complemented by section 6, with position 29 - The Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja coordination body, where 500 million, as scheduled, would be taken off 450 million so that only 50 million dinars would remain for this body. Another 500 million dinars for the Development Fund would be obtained from the Structural Adjustment Fund, so that the amount of billions and a half, as foreseen for this part, would now be reduced to a billion dinars. What's with the amendment? I believe that the Co-ordination Body for Medvedja, Bujanovac and Presevo cannot and must not spend this much funding for this year, that if we divide this with the number of days, it amounts to about 60,000 marks a day, which is too much, given everything that is going on there, which Mr. Covic is doing with his team. I also want to highlight the very trendy reporting and writing of the daily press, as well as television, which these days is talking about how radicals do not want to support southern Serbia, or they will not vote for southern Serbia. Gentlemen, these aren't funds for southern Serbia. These are the funds for the Coordination Body. As far as southern Serbia is concerned, it is represented elsewhere in the budget, and the Homeland Security Zone is also represented as a special item in this budget of 1.500,000 dinars in the interior ministry. I also want to say that for several months this body has existed and worked, that Mr. Covic's plan was in circulation for southern Serbia, that the plan was at some negotiations and consensus in Western Europe, and there is still no plan here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The funds for the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, out of a total of 500 million dinars, are ridiculously small, because we know that this fund should have primary importance for the promotion of production and development of our economy this year. The second part of my amendment refers to the Ministry of Mining and Energy. In Section 10 in position 60, four billion dinars are scheduled for the economic subsidy. I tried to find an explanation for this part, and it says very briefly that subsidies for the Elektroprivreda of Serbia and the automotive industry. He doesn't write any more about it. I ask the question, what will the subsidies of Serbia's Elektroprivreds if we know that from 1 April we have a new electricity price, which is on average 100% higher than the existing price. On the other hand, we also know that the profits of employees in electricity are among the highest earnings in the Republic of Serbia. My amendment suggested that these funds be deleted and redistributed. The redistribution would be carried out the following way. One billion dinars would be transferred to the Ministry of Education and Sports, in position of 99, pay for basic education. So, a billion dinars directly for basic education salaries. A billion dinars are also transferred to the cost of the Ministry of Sports and Education, and for salaries for secondary education, 500 million would be transferred to the Ministry of Education, and for salaries for higher and higher education, and one and a half billion would be transferred to the Republic Property Directorate, at 158, for investments in education, health and other public institutions. In the end, I'd like to ask Mr. Energy Minister, who is not here. I've just received information that in the pleasure area, so the Zlatibor County, in most municipalities, began reading numbers as early as Monday. So seven days before the new electricity price starts reading. Does this mean that consumers will pay for the new price and electricity spent during these seven days in a period of time for which the old electricity price is valid??
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2592	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments to Zlatan Jovanovic to vote. For 56, against 110, there were no abstentions, not 19, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MPs Sreten Mitrovica, Ljubisa Maravic and Đura Lazic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2593	We have submitted this amendment on the basis of the total funds provided for citizens from Kosovo and Metohija. We have been guided by the fact, given the situation which is currently and the means for all the needs of those who have remained to live on the premises of Kosovo and Metohija, and for those who have been displaced, in order to enable them to return as quickly as possible. On the basis of some consultations with Finance Minister Djelic, I learned that the resources of workers working in the state authorities were secured in the current budget reserve or in the additional funds, however, for workers who worked in the economy and who made their own personal income before the war were not foreseen. In principle, I said that there are about 3,000 workers in central Kosovo alone who do not receive personal incomes, and I must say that every moment the phones ring and ask for it to be delivered to the session of this assembly. They also call on workers who are outside the administrative borders, those who have been expelled from their hearths, and they do not receive personal incomes, and some workers who have been admitted to certain organizations, I must say here in this assembly that they have encountered a very poor reception. If you had the chance to observe health workers last night, I cried when I listened to an extraordinary expert and he cried out what reception he was, you can laugh freely, but I must say that the Serbs from Cosmeta were very ill received, especially after October 5th. I am listening here to the president of the parliamentary group, Mr Cedu Jovanovic, as much as he is excited about and says he will help Kosovo, think about Kosovo. However, Mr. Chado, nothing is yet observed in the field. If you don't hurry, I can tell you that you don't even have to try to help the Serbian people in Kosovo anymore, because you won't have anyone to help. What you're saying is that the Socialist Party is to blame for the areas of Kosovo and Metohija, I'm just going to point out the fact that if Resolution 1244 is respected...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2594	Please, let's talk about the amendments. I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2595	Surely if the UN respected Resolution 1244, there would not be all this happening in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. Because then it would be guaranteed personal and property security, freedom of movement, right to work and personal gain. However, since Resolution 1244 is not respected, and we all know very well why, both opposition and position, the Serb people, with the help of the United Nations and Albanian terrorists, are expelled from Cosmeta. (President: For the second time I warn you to stick to the agenda. I hope that all these facts, which have been heard here from all MPs who are livingly interested in resolving Kosovo's problem, will be very helpful to the Serbian people, that this assembly will also have consideration for all of this and will help the Serbian people, and that this amendment will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2596	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word Minister Obren Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2597	Dear ladies and gentlemen, in his explanation of the amendment, the MP has uttered one notorious lie. It is absolutely incorrect that the state of Serbia does not care about its institutions concerning Kosovo and people who have left or have stayed in Kosovo. He mentioned the Ministry of Health and the director who was crying. I think a lot of health directors from Kosovo are going to cry these days for a lot of reasons. Right now, they're crying because I took away their unauthorized cars, because none of them know where his workers are and how many of them are on the phone, and all 6,800 workers who are out of health care are paid neatly, and they're out of Kosovo. None of the personnel I came out of Kosovo know exactly where his workers are. There are in Republika Srpska, there are in various countries abroad, there are them all over Serbia, but they are the exact number and schedule people don't know. I've tried these two months, as far as we're concerned, to find out. We haven't made it yet, but we'll make it very soon. I took away their rights to abuse the state's torment and to extract state property, so we took away their cars these days, and that's why they're crying. We will also take away their right to care for the workers, for they are not concerned with justice, and other people will come to those places and they will take care of them properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2598	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? He has the word Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2599	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, this amendment wants to focus on the future, wants to focus on creating a material base for making moves better in Kosovo and Metohija. We know very well how it was after KFOR arrived. We know very well how difficult it was to establish a system of education, from Gorazdevac and beyond, a system of health care. We know just how difficult it was to keep a certain fit to function all the essential elements related to health care and the education process in Kosovo and Metohija. We're not going to get far if we're having fun whether someone's driving a car or not, but if we're having fun providing enough material support for that people there, it has a motive to stay and be a liability for the return of others. Because if we're having fun whether someone drives a car or doesn't drive a car, whether it's the one who receives a salary at work for 6 or 12 hours, and if we're going to investigate whether someone made a mistake, we're not going to do anything about creating a material health care base, for the education process, where UNMIK's attack is big, where it's going to pay 700 to 1,000 marks to teachers, to hand over to UNMIK's programs, where there's no Serbian history and Serbian future. It is we who are in charge, as the queen of Serbia, of creating not only a material base for the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, but of people who will take care of that people and invest in the right direction, not to investigate what happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2600	I didn't accuse anyone of anything. But it is not true that the Serbian government does not care about the people who left Kosovo or the part of the Serb people that remained there. Mr. Ivkovic, you can't blame the government because that people came out of there. He left at the time while you were running the state, so you didn't even take care of his accommodations. That's what we have to worry about today. One more thing to tell you, while we are talking about their incomes and the privileges of individuals. You know, they don't complain about the ones who are the most threatened. Most of all, those who've been given privileges complain about. I wrote a circus and asked my colleagues to take jobs in Serbia. In Vojvodina, hundreds of doctors are missing, hundreds of doctors are missing in Eastern Serbia, in general, hundreds of doctors and specialists, not just doctors of general practice. A small number of people left Kosovo want to accept the offer. Of the health workers who came out of Kosovo, very few want to accept the offer, except in places where they used to have houses. The poor woman went to work in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the poor girl fled abroad. Those who were richer, they stayed somewhere or had their own house or family. After all, doctors had a little better life than other health workers. In the end, let's ignore them. What am I gonna do with the maids? What am I going to do with medical technicians, three-quarters of who went out? What are we going to do about the administrative workers who worked in health care? And these are the ones who complain that I took away their Audi. One's threatening to kill me because I took away his "audi 6." In that "audius 6" someone else is going to drive. He certainly needs this country, and if he doesn't need it, we'll sell it. The institutions in Kosovo will receive other directors, who will take more care of workers and less of their privileges. I'm sure that's what's going to happen these days.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2601	Branislav Ivkovic - replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2602	I appreciate Minister Joksimovic, I respect him and I want him to succeed in his work. That is why, I will tell him that it is much more important, Minister Joksimovic, that I understand your desire to enter into detail and that you are engaged in certain privileges that you want to subtract, but for this country, for you, for your ministry, it is much more important to deal with general matters. For example, you missed yesterday, Živodarka Dacin had an amendment that she wanted to create a material base just for the area of health, to distract young people sitting in cities, to go to Vojvodina, where there was a lack of doctors, a lack of technicians, to create a material base for their motivation to solve the housing issue. The DOS majority turned that down. It was at the expense of you and your ministry. As for Kosovo and Metohija, this MP standing before you has even experienced a tube of English Thompson that is in his mouth, in Peca, at the time of KFOR's arrival, and that he barely survives. I've got witnesses for that. I know very well what it's like for the Serbian people, because I've been with them more than a hundred times. And as we tried to accept them, we motivated them, to break the zone into Gorazdevec, to bring people back. My message to you is vote for this amendment. This amendment precisely to you, and to the Minister of Education, and to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, creates a material base to strengthen the Serbian contingent in northern Kosovo and Metohija, so that those Serbs who have been deprived of KFOR's right to work in Trepca, give material receipts, as compensation, and that the queen is maintained tomorrow to be a substitute for return. By the way, there's a lot of noise here, and we're getting into the security zone. That's a lie. We were in the security zone, until November there was police of the Republic of Serbia, so we pulled it when we ran into a trap. You can say anything about this pay phone here. [[Applause to the SPS MPs]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2603	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2604	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will admit to agree for the first time with Mr. Ivkovic. In fact, he told that great truth, which is that everything can be said for this speaker. However, Mr. Ivkovic, when you talk about the relationship of the new government to all those problems that shake our society, I ask you to speak solely on the basis of facts and arguments. Facts and arguments speak of a significantly different picture and relations us as new authorities towards Kosovo and Metohija, rather than you as previous authorities. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Amen. ) (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Theme. ) Do not invite us to go to Kosovo and Metohija to see the life of our countrymen on that part of our territory. You were not prepared to go to the president of the Republic of Serbia, but relying on those 50m to the right, in the park, where the unfortunate Serbs, under plastic bags, waited for the savior from Kosovo and Metohija to receive them. When we talk about the facts that talk about the relationship of the new government to Kosovo and the Metohija and the determination to cover the budgetary needs that exist in that part of our territory, then we can make an analysis of your willingness to target from the budget that was planned for last year on Kosovo and Metohija. All down to the minus. You said one thing, the other you made. Finally, the final balance is that our budget is also down. It has been spent more than Serbia has achieved. But when we see a minus in education, minus in the Ministry of Refugees, minus in the Ministry of Justice, minus in the health ministry of 40 million, is there anything in the plus? There is. The Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, funds intended to obtain immovable property for the needs of the government of the Republic of Serbia, planned 18 million, spent 55-37 million more. When we entered the analysis of the 37 million, we determined that someone was buying apartments. These aren't apartments bought in Kosovo Mitrovica, these apartments are bought in downtown Belgrade, bought by those who have one, two or three apartments, so they'll be responsible for it or already fit. Don't lecture us on patriotism, without facts and arguments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2605	There's no replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2606	The Honorable Chairman, you have just allowed the head of the parliamentary group, your group to severely violate the Rules of Procedure, Article 98, which says that the speaker can only speak about the issue on the agenda. Currently, an amendment has been submitted by the SPS MPs on the agenda. He was spoken of by the Minister of Health and I. Mr Ceda Jovanovic joined with a political discussion and proved to ourselves that we should first consider the final account of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses, then the budget, as it says. This is where everything is done in a mess, because it tends to be a very important and responsible job. As for the apartments of the government of the Republic of Serbia, more than two thousand apartments have been purchased over the past four years in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, from Vranja to Saturday. More than a thousand-and-a-half were divided into M.O.P. officers, and they have every right, because they're doing the hardest job in this country, their heads are in a bag and their families never even know if they're going to come home. There's not a single widow who's been killed by the MUP who hasn't got an apartment. Over 300 apartments went into Serbia's judicial system and over 100 apartments in the rest of the ministry, and only 100 were divided within the government of the Republic of Serbia and to large numbers of employees and fewer officials. But you're trying to do business with politics in one way that doesn't fit.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2607	What can I tell you, Mr. Ivkovic, you've reported to the Rules of Procedure to advertise the injury, not to stick to the subject of the president of the parliamentary group, and neither have you. You abused that right. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 40, against 111, abstained no one, voted 24, a total of 175 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the amendment promoter want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2608	Indeed, it is difficult to speak after Mr. Chad's firey, patriotic speech. This speech is very strong, strong and impressive. Dear People's MPs, we have finally learned what Minister Djelic is doing in France. The prime minister told us that he was in finance, but he seems to have been in the pastry business, mixing cookies. Minister Djeric (Djelic from Djelic). ) and the government, as well as the newly-roasted financial expert Ceda Jovanovic -- although I see that Mrs. Mila has been educating him here these two days, Mrs. Mile, I remember as an ex-member, in a previous meeting, the Finance Committee, as a screened SPS staff, I don't know if Mr. Ivkovic has come to a run, which is what it is - they claim the budget is restrictive these three days. What black restrictive budget? He is at least irresponsible, unfair to certain budget users and wasteful. I suggested six changes to the bulky side of the budget, and I could in all 180 positions on the bulky side of the budget propose changes and savings. First of all, in position number 17, I suggested that the kind of expenditure - wages increase by 10 billion and 100 million dinars to 10 billion and 600 million. So, for all budget users, the increase in salary in 2001, planned on average of 33%, and for the representatives of the MUP on average 28%, I believe that this increase would lead to an equal position, compared to the others, especially as the funds would be provided by redistribution of the expenditure side of the budget. Mr. Djindjic probably asked where the money came from. That is why I have already proposed in position 29, a kind of expenditure, the famous Co-ordination Body for Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedje, that the amount of 500 million dinars should be deleted, that those funds be channelled to the salaries of members of the MUP. It is clear that the Co-ordination Body of the Federal Government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the municipality of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedju is completely useless from the point of view of state interest, which is causing enormous damage in the country's national and state interest. So, I suggest that those funds be deleted, and that those funds be relocated, Mrs. Mila, to the salaries of the members of the MUP. Then, position 41, at the Ministry of Justice, kind of expenditure of special purpose, amounting to 60 million dinars to be deleted. The planned funding of 60m dinars is aimed at, as they say in the explanation, spending on the cost of international legal aid. I call on the finance minister to explain to us what these expenses are for the costs of international legal assistance. I express my open suspicion that these are expenses for paying the costs of the Hague tribunal's office in Belgrade. If that's not the case, let the minister answer that it isn't. Then, in position 56, the Ministry of Privatisation, the kind of expenditure, also special purposes, I suggest that that position be deleted by 72 million dinars. In an explanation and spending of these 72m dinars, it is said that they are intended for new privatisation projects. Today I read in the press, Minister Vlahovic said the privatisation law is over. I don't see the purpose of these funds, unless they're planned to compensate the private agencies. One such agency remains the director of Minister Vlahovic for the assessment of state and social capital. I suggest that these funds be deleted. Then, the Ministry of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, position 76-20 million dinars, again kind of expenditure special purposes. We have many special purposes in expenditures, Mr. Minister. In light of the spending of these funds, it is said that they are planned for activities to promote Serbia's export investment opportunities. My company deals almost 100% with export operations and don't let this government promote me abroad. Such an identical ministry exists, I warn you, both in the federal government and being led by Labus, and I think this means should be deleted, because it's obvious that it's going to end up in the pockets of private agencies that are going to make some elaborates or what I know.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2609	You're five minutes out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2610	And quite at the end -- and last time I told you that my time was just coming, as it was over -- the Ministry of Education, the position of 98, the member ends -- the kind of expenditure, development and reform of the education system, the amount of 50 million dinars. I suggest that these funds be transferred to the same ministry, to the kind of expenditure, to increase the salaries of educators. It is clear that the ministry, led by Gašo Knezevic, is unable to reform any education system, and even if it does, it will cause irreparable damage to our education system and youth. So, I suggest that this item be deleted, and the 50 million dinar funds shift to the salaries of the educators.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2611	Otherwise, this amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by the Government on the Committee. Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2612	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government would have to accept the amendment of MP Miroljub Veljkovic, because there is no reason for the planned salary of state employees and other public services to be neglected by members of the MUP, as well as for their planned increase to be only 28% and all 33%. One more thing I would draw attention to is Minister Djelic and the entire Serbian public. The budget item shows that Education Minister Gašo Knezevic has cheated the unions of educators. He lied to their faces, he promised them a real salary increase in the wars this year, and this budget shows that the nominal increase in their salaries in this year will be 33%, as well as all other public service employees. Then, the government already acknowledges in this draft budget law that it plans inflation during this year 30%. All serious economic experts, such as Professor Sreten Sokic, from the Faculty of Political Sciences in Belgrade, say minimal inflation over the course of this year will be at least 60%, and some say it will reach 100%. So, educators and other civil service employees will have a real pay cut of 30% compared to last year. They already have a major fall from September to January, a real pay cut, so their salaries will be even lower than last year. Why didn't you in this budget plan what the government through the mouth of Minister Gaša Knezevic promised the trade unions of educators. You didn't plan any of that. With this budget, you discover that educators are being deceived and that their position will be much worse than it was last year. Worse will be the position of all public service employees, but educational workers have been in the worst position so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2613	Since no one has answered the floor, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 50, against 104 abstentions, there was no vote of 15, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Jankovic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the amendment promoter want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to MP Milan Jankovic's vote. For 49, against 108, there were no abstentions, there were no 17 votes, and a total of 174 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2614	At Article 7 of Position 32 and Position 60, the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Culibrk. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2615	Dear Members of the People, I have two proposals under this amendment. In Article 7 of Position 32, at the Transition Fund, amounting to billions and a half of dinars to transfer to position 56, at the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation. It is quite logical for these billions and a half of dinars, which are scheduled for the Transition Fund, to be in the Ministry of Business and Privatisation, not the Ministry of Finance. It explains that these funds will be for workers who lose their jobs due to the restructuring of the economy. However, we need to know that some companies, especially since October 5th, who are in difficulty, may need some help to enter the transformation process. It is much more logical that the privatisation minister, who will be familiar with the companies that want to go to privatisation, who need some means to participate in tenders, to seek strategic partners, to need these funds and to help them on this basis. The second amendment refers to position 60, these are economic subsidy funds, amounting to four billion dinars. It would be much more logical if these funds were transferred to position 25, which is the Serbian Development Fund. It is illogical that the amount of four billion dinars, which is explained by the very dung, will be in Elektroprivred, in auto-industry, etc., will be with the Ministry of Energy and Mining, that there will be a minister who has little to do with the economy, but that will be in the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, because these funds are necessary for the fund. The two amendments say that there are simply 19-20 billion funds, which have been transferred to various ministries without being in the right place, so that ministers, and especially vice-presidents of the government, could use the funds at their own discretion. He already has information that in some companies, especially since government vice-presidents have recently established their municipal committees across Serbia's cities, they are using to get some of the funds from this fund. There are a dozen companies where government vice-presidents intervened from this fund in certain companies where there have been staff changes at the head of these companies. Thus, simply, the funds are not used by purpose but are still left for both funds, for which they are not legally established, and they are not known how they will be spent, but simply given by the government's regulation. It's mostly those funds that weren't used on purpose. I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance. I'd like to ask him to answer why he hasn't provided any means to stimulate exports. Now that he's exporting, he's dead. The Japanese speak, either perform or die, and it seems to us to perform and die. Or, if there's no incentive fund already, why hasn't the German brand rate increased? All who import already account for 45 dinars when sold on the domestic market. If we want a market economy and we're going towards it, why do we defend the German mark course by administrative measures? Whether the Serbian government, participating in the market economy, with market-based administrative mechanisms, defends the mark at 30, and it should already be 40.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2616	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2617	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I would really like you to pay attention to this amendment. We discussed the Transport Tax Act in principle. There was an attempt to say what could be said, given the fact that six laws were laid down as one item of the agenda and that the time of 10 minutes for discussion was reduced to five minutes. We will consider the amendments very quickly, so we will x-rayly point to all the tragic consequences of the Law on Family Taxation in Serbia. However, all of this can be fixed if the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by accepting this amendment, strengthens the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and those who, in the nature of things, when the privatisation process is, negotiate with foreign investors and customers, give capital to direct it to the rise of the economy. We at the Business Development Fund have only 0.47%, we don't have 0.5 billion dinars. Then why the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia? Why the board of directors? I remind you, the head of the board of directors is the Prime Minister. Then why not transfer these four billion and seven billion from position to the Ministry of Traffic, and with that money help the economy get on its feet. You know what I'm afraid of? I'm afraid the privatisation process will first sell companies that are doing a great job today -- oilies, cementists. So, what's gonna happen? Where will that money go? We need to focus this money on Serbia's Development Fund, in order to stimulate these funds by companies that continue to suffer the consequences of the embargo, sanctions, bombings, to stand on their feet and start to work, to enable Serbian citizens to earn money. Only citizens who earn money and families who have regular and good wages can answer by paying taxes on school supplies and all other things. Our suggestion is that. On the other hand, it is very important that one negotiating team be formed with foreign investors. We had in the past all kinds of white-world wrinkles coming in here ready and $200 million to take in front of our eyes, and somewhere we settled. It is therefore important that one team, which negotiates with investors, has the right to have the means of privatisation and directs them to raise the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2618	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. Please state by voting. For 53, against 103 abstentions, there was no vote of 19, out of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On page 7, section 18, heading 116 and position 117, the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ruzic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2619	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the basic intensities of my amendment are to devise the Ministry Act that you have brought, which has been abolished by the Ministry of Youth and Sports. As for the amendment itself, in section 18, the Ministry of Education and Sports, 185 million dinars are foreseen for sports programmes, and for programmes in the field of youth care, 32 million dinars. My proposal is to provide for 400 million dinar funding in sports programmes, and for programmes in the field of youth care for 60 million dinars. Again, given the fact that you only predicted nearly 42 million dinars for wages. I believe that for programmes in the field of youth care, given the fact that the psychophysical health of our youth and in general the young population is on the constant impact of the harmful fact, both religious sects and drug abuses and alcoholism, it would be necessary to allocate more resources for these programmes. As far as our prime minister's issues are concerned -- from which the budget user takes these funds, I really don't have a solution, but since you've predicted a budget deficit of 22 billion, these 243 million more will not mean much, and it will mean for young people and at all for sport, given that amateur sport is an indirect and top-notch sport, which is really threatened, given the fact that this subcalculation of the Sports Authority has not started to work and since December people haven't received any salaries at all. In case a budget user is to be determined from whom these funds could be taken, without the intention of attacking your decision to give the Coordination Body 500 million dinars, because it is probably necessary and I do not doubt the good intentions of the head of the co-ordination body of Mr Neboja Covic, however, only this week we had a request to amnesty terrorists from so-called. Drenic groups, and for today Mr. Covic's announcement that he will negotiate with the same terrorists with whom he signed a cease-fire agreement, so I think that these funds would be better invested in young people than in this co-ordination body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2620	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 52, there were no abstentions against 111, there was no 13 vote, out of 176 members of parliament. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2621	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, proposed by the amendment, I wanted first of all to make changes to section 18 - Ministry of Education and Sports, in position of number 99, analytical conto 911-300, the amount of "10,550,000" to increase by one twelve, then the position number 101, analytical conto 911-300, the amount of "5.100,000", increased also by one twelve, then the position number 107, analytical conto 911-300, the amount "2.236.00.000", increased by one twelve. My idea of increasing these positions of the budget is because of a very poor position in which education workers are located, and the other thing is that what the Minister of Education promised, as well as the Government, is to try to implement this amendment, so that they would have a more regular and quality teaching and provide a better life for the employees of education. The prime minister cannot behave so that the ugly ones who are now on strike, with justification, because he did not expect much of the increase they were promised, and we are witnessing that the average personal income in education is very small, and below the average personal income of the Republic of Serbia. Since you predict 30% inflation, so it usually gets two or three times higher at the end of the year, this amendment of mine will slightly improve the status of educators. Then, the next position I submitted the amendment is in section 18, the Ministry of Education and Sports, and refers to the number 116, analytical conto 911-332, where the amount of "185,000", increases to "285,000". I have put up with this for one reason -- which is a very small amount of 185,000 and cannot meet the needs of amateur sports and youth development in our country of Serbia. I believe that this amount of an increase of 100,000 is negligible and that the government and the Serbian Parliament should accept this amendment. I would also like to say that the public vote, which controls DOS authorities, speaks of some obstruction, which is by the opposition in this House. However, the obstruction is just being done by Mr. Djelic and the head of the MP club, Ceda Jovanovic. Why they're obstructing -- we're talking about the budget for three days and we're giving information that it's very little apart for Serbs who stayed in Kosovo and Metohija to hear from Mr Djelic on the fourth day that there are 404,000 thousand funds planned for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. If he had presented this information in this budget, we would normally have no argument that we have been talking for three days about Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija being very neglected. After that, however, the head of the MP club, who claims that, moreover, it is not 404,000, but 2,200,000 thousand planned for Serbs who have remained to live in Kosovo and Metohija. It's nice to meet you, but I don't see any reason -- why it's hiding and why it doesn't come out as an item in this budget, but we need three days to beg and convince you, so that you finally get this information out. This increase, which I'm looking for, leads to a situation where incomes will not be equal to expenditures, but there are several ways to establish this balance, too, means to set a sign of equality between income and expenditure. One is -- these funds can be substituted for part of a special purpose, for which 22 billion dinars are planned, so that they can be transferred to the financing of educational workers, or from a budget reserve, which has 8 billion, or to report this item as a budget deficit, all in order to satisfy both better life and the working conditions of educational workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2622	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendment of Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic to a statement and I ask you to vote. For 51, against 111 abstentions, there was no vote of 15 MPs, a total of 177. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2623	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to say a few words about Article 7. I have submitted the amendment to several divisions, so since there is not enough time, I would only point out to Mr. Djelic and Mr. Chad to pay a little attention. In this budget, savings can be made. I'd like to draw your attention first to Section 8, that's the Agrarian budget, that's what I was already saying, and that amendment didn't work. The distribution of 10 funds to implement the Law on Geological Research namely, these funds are extremely small, and when invested more in geological research, in geothermal water, in geothermal energy, it would certainly save about 20 billion dinars. Here's an explanation - there are a lot of geothermal wells in Vojvodina and Serbia that have not been used, and we have examples of where the wells have been used and there are no investments at all, no mules, no oil, no gas. If this amendment were to be adopted, and invested in geological research, in geothermal energy, we would now pay less than 500,000 marks for the gas imported from abroad. That Mr Djelic probably doesn't know, and it's not his profession, and we're not asking you to know this matter, that there are already companies and institutions that have done it and who are doing it. That area is abandoned. I would also pay attention to division 18, where an increase is required under regular numbers 96, 99, 101, 103, 107, 110, 114 - linear increase. It's about schooling. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister said that there would be paying classes and that paying classes would be paid for all the same. That's why I'd be looking for a basis to increase the pay grade. And another example -- to Mr. Health Minister, who's asking for an increase in the analysis of 911-300, the Cancer Society, to increase to 10 million. Namely, there are opportunities from other analytical contexts to take that off. We know we have increased skin cancer, lung cancer and respiratory cancer. This happens especially after the NATO bombing. There's that in the area of Panchev, in the vicinity of Novi Sad, wherever there was a bombing. There's a possibility of a 911-029 and a 911-029 regular number 27. I propose that, especially in the case of geological research, the ministry and the minister, since they are not here to consider, offer that savings of 700 thousand marks, with very little investment. It just needs a little bit of brains.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2624	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has Minister Obren Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2625	I don't want to compromise on the views expressed by the MP defending my amendment, but I have to say something that's simply a fact. I think there's a lot of light and irresponsible data on the consequences of NATO bombing, especially in that part of the projectile with the so-called. Poored uranium and its oxide, which is carcinogenic. In fact, we need to know that this area hasn't been examined enough. Furthermore, out of 111 missiles that were fired at Serbia and three fired at Montenegro, only 11 fell in the vicinity of Vranj. These areas are not sufficiently explored, because Serbia as a country does not have enough quality equipment for that research and there is no money, but it is estimated that this damage is not so great. If we are talking about an ecological disaster or even a disaster that has been created as a result of NATO bombing, then, above all, environmental disaster involves dead, crippled, unhappy, destroyed homes, infrastructure, etc. This is what is the greatest consequence of NATO aggression. Let's not be irresponsible in assessing how chemical and radiological pollution are, because then we need to think about who we're going to think about tomorrow as a country based on food production, to sell our product, if we're so irresponsible about things that just aren't right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2626	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party supports the amendment of MP Lazar Marjanski, because he is seriously and duly reasoned and the minister is unable to object to him. The minister here brings up some false and false things. The Serbian people were not only bombed once by uranium bombs, but twice and the consequences are terrible. Some state authorities, though, have been covering up these consequences, but they are increasingly public. Republika Srpska was bombed in 1995, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was bombed in 1999. In Serbia and Serbia's countries, an epidemic of carcinogenic cancer is true. This will tell you all the serious doctors in this direction, how much higher the percentage of cancer patients are now than he was in normal circumstances. We know about Hadzic's case, where hundreds of people were suffering from cancer. Most of them now live in Bratunc, it came out in public, and we have now heard an official statement that more troops of the Yugoslav Army, who participated in the war in 1999, suffered from cancer and therefore the minister should not hide these facts and so partially remove responsibility from the NATO Pact, and when it comes to alarming claims that can bring us the most damage, then they are spread by DOS ministers. For example, the Federal Minister of Agriculture went public with the claim that it is possible for us to import mad cows and the meat of mad cows, without any argument, without any fact he launched a sensation that could harm us. Now you try to sell our beef or sheep meat after such a statement by the Federal Minister of Agriculture. That's what's unserious, and the public's warning about cancer-induced cancer bombings with impoverished uranium is very serious. It is a delicate topic for DOS, because their political allies bombed us, the same ones that brought them to power in Serbia, but we must insist to the end that the full truth be learned.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2627	Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2628	Mr. Minister, I'm not asking you to know this, but there's someone who knows it. It's not just a problem in the uranium. The problem is when there's a bombed refinery in Pancheva, a refinery in Novi Sad. That's when a lot of oil, gasoline and other chemical substances expired. Hitler didn't bomb the chemical industries, and the NATO pact did. You don't have to trust me, start a car, go to Novi Sad, and you'll see that there's no agricultural product like there was, that you can't grow a cucumber because the land is poisoned, and we don't just want to export healthy food, but we want to eat healthy food. You take the data, and then you claim you don't need to increase that conto.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2629	Mr. Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2630	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we don't need this kind of expedient mind. We will all suffer the consequences of what happened during the 78 days of the war with the NATO Pact. We needed the brains to avoid that war. It was not necessary to enter a war with the strongest military alliance in the world without considering the consequences of the country and society in advance. Who expected to be able to fight the NATO Pact without having no consequences for the army he brought into the war, for the citizens and the people who were killed, and not all participated equally in that war, nor did they bear the same burden. Some have lost their homes, lost their jobs, while others have built fun parks and do not expect the NATO Pact to take care of those who have been killed in NATO bombings. Expect former government officials to account for this parliament, which is why, like those who were obliged to care about the health of this people, they both came up with every health institution and organized a robbery that had the most catastrophic development in health care. The Institute of Oncology was an example of the former government's relationship with its people. The biggest robbery was at the Institute of Oncology, and it was on cytostatics designed to treat those who had cancer. We are not asking the NATO Pact to forget everything that has happened in this society, but before we resolve our relationship with the world we must define relations within Serbia and find those who are responsible among us to have the right to question other responsibilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2631	I ask the MPs to stick to the subject. Replica, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Cedomir Jovanovic has asked three questions here. It's a matter of health care crime. Explain to the end, you are power. While I was in the government together with Bojic for two years, we insisted that Leposava Milicevic be removed from the post of minister. It's been hard, but it's been replaced because of stuff like that. Look into everything. What I came up with, I speak plainly, and that's when I was talking. You're in advance, but you're not giving evidence. As for Nenad Djordjevic, he was arrested, tried, fled to Montenegro and now I hear that your authority has returned him to Belgrade. He stole the most. Nenad Djordjevic stole the most. I don't know who stole everything, but I know some people who stole, and if I found out and had arguments that they were stealing, I didn't keep quiet, and you explore it all the way. Don't put any more pressure on us. Look, prove it, and he should go to jail. Don't arrest for politics and The Hague, you only arrest for crime and that's proven. The second thing here, Cedomir Jovanovic raises the question of who is to blame for the war. In his opinion, the Serbian people are guilty. NATO Pact attack not on leadership, but on Serb people in general Zahari Trnavčević, you were run over by Natasa Jovanovic last night. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] Calm down and ask for a new show now, ask for a rematch. (President: Please don't get out of place). That's the DOS. They don't have the arguments and they think they can do something with the noise. You can't piss me off or defocus me. If Serbia's or Yugoslavia's leadership is guilty of war, then why did NATO wage war against the Serb people? No one in Serbia's leadership died in that war. The ginulas are children Why are you lying, DOS? [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] I never went to the shelter. Two-thirds of the night I slept in my house in Batajnica, except when I was on duty in the Serbian government, so I was in the news center. Why are you so unproven? [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] This session will take much longer than midnight, because of that. What do I care? I can handle anything. (President: Don't get it. I never went to the shelter. You can't stop. I accept your argument now. I never went to the shelter because I couldn't stand in the shelter. Where is it that a country can be bombed for nearly three months because they don't care about the regime and what does the regime not taste like a NATO pact? Because the regime would not agree to the NATO pact occupying Kosovo and Metohija and all Serbia, to move freely with its troops across Serbia? (President: Time is up. ) Third thing about all this, ladies and gentlemen, you should take a little care of your politics and your behavior. Every ossion has its end. Looks like your government will be the fastest to see an end. In this case, you're so much ossion that you're showing anxiety, that you're showing that it's burning under your feet. How can your authority survive what happened yesterday at the Duke's Assembly? He can't survive that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2633	If no one ever comes forward under this amendment, I am putting Ambassador Lazar Marjansky's amendment to the vote. For 49, against 115, there are no abstentions, 15 did not vote, a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2634	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have failed to record how much the amendment has been discussed so far, but I have established, like everyone else here in the O.R. and those watching the transfer, that no amendment of the congregation's majority has been accepted. Of course, it's the right of the parliamentary majority. What I'm trying to say is, is it possible and theoretically, of all of them, a hundred amendments, none of them received support, none of them consistent, none of them justified, none of them correct. Obviously it's possible. And that's obviously the right of the parliamentary majority. Probably the fate of my amendment will go the same way, but I want to explain what I am and why I suggested. So, I suggested that in the Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for this year, in article 7, the Ministry of Finance and Economy was divided into the 36th Conto 911-900, so it is the current budget reserve, the amount that is scheduled to be replaced by 4.4 billion, that after this position 36, 911-900, the current budget reserve, a new position should be added: "36a, 9911-400, a permanent budget reserve, amounting to 3.55,000 dinars. Why, dear gentlemen. Because of the fact that in Article 55. The law on public revenues and expenditures states that at least 1% of the total budget revenue is set out in the permanent reserve of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So it doesn't say "not by the book", it doesn't say "can't", it doesn't say "shouldn't or shouldn't", it says "isserve". It says, "in a permanent budget reserve of the municipality, or city, at least 1% of the total income is allocated after deduction of funds". What is also important -- "the obligation of separation for a permanent reserve ceases when the funds of the fixed reserves are reached at 10% average". Article 10th amending and supplementing the law, which you are proposing, reads: "the mandatory allocation of funds to a fixed budget reserve, from 1% of total income, is reduced to 0.5%, i.e. from 10% to 5%, due to the change in the principle of gross budget" etc. I do not understand how the author, therefore, the Government - the Proposer, the Ministry of Finance and the parent board, could refuse an amendment that is not a free interpretation of my smallness, so Slobodan Pavlovic, MPs, but something that is written in the law, if it takes into account the purpose of the funds of the permanent budget reserve, which is that the funds are used for extraordinary needs, possible disasters and so on. Then I don't understand why the amendment wasn't accepted. I insist, I suggest you consider and accept this amendment, because otherwise, you will demonstrate the right not to accept the amendment, and I cannot question that right, but in such a way as to demonstrate that you do not respect the law that you have proposed yourself, that you do not respect the parliament and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for which funds are intended from the permanent budget reserve, for extraordinary occasions. I wish they were gone, but they have to exist in the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2635	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? Nobody. ) I am putting MP Slobodan Pavlovic's amendment to the vote. For 51, against 109 abstentions, there were no 13 votes, a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Tomovic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2636	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, the esteemed members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the essence of the amendments that I have submitted to you for the decision, and regarding the draft budget law, is that the funds provided for the MUP by this draft budget, meaning Article 7, Section V, of the 17 billion dinars, are increased by 50%, with the following explanation. According to the budget, the funds for the salaries of MEP members amounted to 10 billion and 100 million, and it is said in a statement that these funds were 28% higher than those planned for the purpose last year. In view of the fact that this budget includes, therefore, a 30 per cent corporate inflation in the budget, which basically means that real wages will be less than 2% in the total salary of the MEPs this year. If, on the other hand, it is considered that inflation, and I was talking about it in my first report when I discussed on the subject of the budget in principle, that inflation can be expected 50%, and some estimates say more, then that means that the members of the MUP with these budget funds will have less real salaries than they planned, than they had in the last year. Well, because of the assignments, because of the work done by the MUP, I don't think that's allowed. For the same reasons, and what inflation will, by my estimate, be bigger than it is here, with this proposal, I have suggested that the funds on other terms, therefore for material costs, are increased for general purposes, and especially for the land security zone. I don't want to make any advances on this occasion, but yesterday we were listening to a very reasoned claim by the head of the DOS Group on the conditions under which the members of the MUP are doing their jobs, uniforms, boots, etc. And from there, I think that since I have no doubt about yesterday's words by Mr Jovanovic, it means that he too will advocate his authority and help the parliamentary majority adopt this amendment, so that it creates conditions for the MUP to do the tasks that are expected of him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2637	In drawing up this budget, the Ministry of Finance devoted the necessary attention to the costs of the MUP, and particular attention to the costs of members of the MUP who were engaged in the Land Area of Security. We would be inconclusive if we went to the congregation with a proposal that had the kind of failure in advance. We went with the means that were planned and fully met the needs of the members of the MUP, who were engaged not only in the Homeland Security Zone, but also in the tasks considered to be regular. On the other hand, there is no need to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2638	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, just for a moment, the truth works in the Homeland Security Zone in general until October 2000 were members of the MUP. When there was an entry into the trap of the old US administration from the new government in Serbia, there are no members of the MUP in southern Serbia in the Land Zone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2639	As no one is answering for a word anymore, I am putting MP Slabodan Tomovic's amendment to the vote. For 49, against 115, abstained no one, voted 12, a total of 176 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2640	Dear Members of the Parliament, just to say, because of the short time we use to explain certain amendments yesterday, I failed to say that you also refused 6 million 600,000 marks for the Zorca Chemical Industry. It's an honor to you, although there's been two large factories there, and there's three thousand workers working there, without DOS leadership, and they're just changing there, and they're changing, and they're working alone there, and they're doing without it. This amendment is related to the Ministry of Culture. Since Mr. Lecic is born from Capca, I'm very interested in what he's going to say, and of course he's not here. It does not occur to him to be, as he is currently engaged in firing 14 cultural inspectors in Serbia. It's a very interesting thing, so we'll have a ham all we want. I asked for only 110 million to be allocated in the section on programmes, and indeed the 110 million questions are that they will be deployed this year, and in the area of culture, I asked for 30 million for the Ljubisa Jovanovic National Theatre from Capca to continue the second phase of investment works in the theatre. It's a theater that has 160 years of tradition. Last year it celebrated 160 years. Today, however, it's a miracle again, but again the shift of directors and the appointment of the second, in only six months, and no results. You replaced the director, I guess, Mr. Jovanovic, since he is a dramatist by calling, knows what the National Theatre "Ljubisa Jovanovic", a woman who has successfully led the theatre for 17 years and who had outstanding results in the field of culture, and when it comes to the Serbian theatre. Of course, I'm saying this for a reason to warn this story that you're going to do something in the field of culture, and that's very amazing, because there's no money here, as much as I can see for the salaries of cultural employees, let alone for investments and works. Let me say, the last time you responded to my amendment, you don't know, sir, that we've really done miles of roads in these ten years, and if you don't know, I'm inviting you to come over there and see what we've done. We have also worked in the field of culture very much, very, very much and of course you do not admit it, it does not occur to you, because only when the DOS came to power will you create everything, but why do you reject these things, which are not just political matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2641	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendments of MP Dragan Tomic to the vote. For 41, against 111, abstained no one, voted 18, a total of 170 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 7. Split 6 and 18 amendments were submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2642	Dear President, fellow MPs, my first amendment is to Article 7. Split 6, Position 25, Conto 911-190, Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, I proposed that the proposed amount be increased by 497.300,000, by 502.700.00, and that the total amount be rounded to 1,000,000,000. Why the Development Fund? It's mostly because it's our economy, and we can discuss why, in the previous period, it worked in very poor conditions, but the fact that it really worked in unfavourable conditions. The fact is that a lot of workers were out of jobs, the fact is that no one could adequately find employment, could not exercise the right to work, and so on. The fact that, in the period after 9 June 1999, when a large part of our economy was destroyed, precisely from the funds of the Reconstruction and Development Directorate and from the Development Fund, a large number of economic capacities were restored and as an example, it was the Kragujevačka flag. That's why the Development Fund is very important for our economy, for what we're going to create and what we're going to live on. Economic growth was evident in that period, after 9 June 1999, and if there were no events that destabilised the overall political situation, even the economic situation in our country, around the October Revolution, this economic growth would certainly be in 1999 and 2000 even a double-digit. Unfortunately, we had a situation that destabilised business flows, including the co-operation of INO partners and companies from all over Serbia, including Pirot, and I must remind that the INO partners were even in a position to withdraw their contracts, to review their Lom deals they had with First May. The economy has been brought into an even worse situation and has a very serious problem with normal functioning. In order to be able to fill that budget - Mr Panajotovic, you don't have to fan out, see you very well - in the course of 2000, the SPS in co-operation with the state authorities launched an action, and I'm talking about the Fund for Development, that the Fund for the Development of Resources that will restore production, and in Dragos, and help "First May", help "Pirotex", and all other companies that need it, not to talk about "Sarlah" that you ruined, to help the economy that is really in a difficult situation. At this moment, the proposed tax policy measures will further worsen the conditions for the functioning of businesses. Therefore, I think this proposal to increase the funding for the Development Fund is indeed involved and that you should adopt this amendment. Let me just say, no one in Serbia needs charity. All people in Serbia are looking for the opportunity to work, to earn, to provide funds for their normal lives. These three billion dinars, which the government has foreseen to suppress social tensions, I don't know how much they'll be enough to cause a set of tax laws that you've proposed. So that's about the first amendment. The second amendment was to section 18, item 116, Conto 911-332 programmes in the field of sports. I suggested that the amount of 185,000 000 increase by 60,000,000. Why? The immediate cause is that... I'd like you to pay a little more attention. The direct cause is that what is happening among our youth, which is increasingly left to itself, is exposed to many negative influences, I come from a region in which the trendy presence of drug abuse is... Mr. Panayotovic, why are you reacting negatively, and I don't really know why -- drug abuse is increasingly present in cafes that do nothing like mushrooms after rain and who collect young people who have nowhere to go, gentlemen, have nothing to deal with, because there's no sports hall in Pirot. A sports hall that, not even after four years, since 1996, has not been built, has not been hit by the foundations, and in the far of 1996 we had promises and promises that there would be a donation, that there would be foreign investments, that we would end it in less than a year. For more than four years, Pirot has no sports hall again. This is why I ask for an increase in the amount for sports programmes of 60,000,000, which will be sufficient to start not only in Pirot, but also in other places, building sports facilities and more money to invest or invest in sports programmes, which will allow young people to deal with sports as a healthy way of filling their free time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2643	Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I put to the vote the amendments of MP Dragan Todorovic. For 43, against 109 abstentions, there was no vote of 12, out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Garcevic. This amendment was tabled by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2644	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, the Honorable Minister, since one is the only one, I am speaking to Djelic, I would like to say, on this stage, that I should appeal that we do not deal with what is not necessary and that we remain legitimately the right of MPs to propose. On the other hand, I would like to appeal to Mr. Jovanovic for once to miss what happened, and to leave this assembly so that we can work peacefully, and whoever is guilty, let the law say, and there is his place, where it belongs. So that we can respect each other, we must, and I view the government of Serbia as my government, regardless of my opposition. I also want that government to treat the opposition and MPs in the Assembly as its citizens. It is a prerequisite that this congregation can function normally. Now I'm going to come back, as an enlightener, again in one section where there's no pay. I think that in order to function in education, it is also necessary to provide the means to build apartments. As is known, no item is provided for in the municipal budgets, nor the collectives that are explicitly funded can have that, when it comes to material costs from the municipality's point of view and salaries from the position of the Republic, which means that part of the problem in education is not intended to be solved. Education is probably a unique institution, a state institution, which is unable to provide any money to solve the housing opportunities of its workers. In this regard, given that there are many special purposes, it would be good to have money in the budget reserve, regardless of who challenged them, and it would be clear that everything is fixed and said - and these are the funds, so in this sense I suggest that 650 million dinars be allocated as the start of resolving the housing issue of educational workers. I know it's the same problem in culture, in health care. All of this indicates that certain means should be allocated as one start of resolution. On the other hand, I would suggest to the government that we no longer discuss the famous 500 million in this assembly, because it took itself two hours yesterday instead of moving them to where they belong. That means the Home Office. It would deny the possibility of any discussion, and the authorities responsible would solve that part of the problem. But by stubbornness, by refusing all of this, by putting money here, I suggest that where there are elements and the apparition of MPs that these funds are being transferred by purpose and that no controversy continues in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2645	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 46, against 109 abstentions, there was no vote of 8, out of a total of 163 members present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We've just finished our amendments to Article 7. We move to amendments to Article 11. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Guduric. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2646	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, since you are the only one, I have suggested that article 11 be deleted. And if you're in the minority, you can't maintain the quorum, at least you can keep quiet, so you can talk. The proposed member was empowered by the government to do some of the things that the Assembly does, since in one part it concerns rebalancing. It wouldn't be a special problem if all the right people were sitting in the government. As many as are right we know, and some of them we don't know, we don't even know what they look like, because apart from the day we voted on them or when you chose them, we didn't see them. If Mr. Chad, who looked, did not believe, he should read the stenogram, when Mr. Batic, six or seven weeks ago from this pay phone, said that in a few days the land zone would be a kilometer, so since it did not, then it must be said - Mr. Minister is lying, and it is not the only time. Mr. Minister will probably talk sometime about how it used to break in with long pipes and... (Glasses: About the amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2647	Please explain your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2648	Well, I'm talking about the amendment, ma'am. I'm talking about why I'm not here to leave this right to the government, and you listen and don't talk to your colleague and you'll understand. And, I don't want those who belong to an anti-Serbian party to interrupt me. This is still the Serbian parliament You can torture me, not just run. [[growls]] Also, since you're always talking about some transparency, and Mr. Ceda Jovanovic is talking about some thieves, however he steps up for this pay phone, it wouldn't hurt to have Mr. Chad become the same transparency, so he says it's someone who still has his mama's milk on his lips, who mostly has nothing to do with the job, he's pushing a 100,000-mark jeep, and he's burning him up, so he's making someone else pay for that security that he's following there. That would be very transparent. Or, I'll invite Mr. Chad Jovanovic, it's not exactly my pleasure, to come to Beocin to see what I've got, so he can show me what he's got, so we can be transparent and then Ceda Jovanovic can talk about thieves, but when he's looking at himself in the mirror.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2649	Here you go. The president of the parliamentary group Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2650	Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party supports this amendment. For normal... Ned, follow up and you'll know which one. Amendment to Article 11. Draft budget law. This Neda Arneric doesn't understand what it is. Then don't throw when you don't understand. You have to? Well, for other reasons, you're throwing it away, that's fine. But don't keep me on camera for what my wife's gonna do when I get home. Article 11 is too high for normal and serious people, but for those who intend to mess with this budget, it's very good. In the draft budget law, we have many fictitious items, items that the finance minister knows will not be spent on. These are various special purposes, various imaginary positions. And then, with those items, they're going to transfer to a permanent budget reserve so that the finance minister has as much money to spend as he wants and the National Assembly has no idea about it. This is the meaning of Article 11, which reads: "The government can transfer to the current budget reserve the funds allocated by this law which it determines will not be spent and deployed for other purposes". What other purpose is that? It's none of our business. They are the only ones who know, and they are the only ones who will be the ones who will be the ones who will be the ones who will be the ones This article should therefore be expelled from the draft budget law. Ned, do you understand now?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2651	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. Are you looking for a quorum? Come on out. Don't throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2652	Obviously, there are no 126 MPs in the hall, which are enough to vote on in the Rules of Procedure. I ask that the quorum be determined and that the assembly services pick up the cards that are in the parliamentary voting units.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2653	We'll determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum. I understand we have a quorum to work with. I ask the service to look and draw cards that are in place, which the MPs, who have left the room, have forgotten. I am putting the amendment of MP Stevan Guduric to the vote. For 44, against 108, there were no abstentions, three, a total of 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We're moving on to Article 12. The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The government's representative agreed to this amendment at the meeting of the Finance Committee. Since the Government's representative has accepted the amendment of the Finance Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 41 MPs, against 110, there were no abstentions, there were no five, a total of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Mucic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government, at the Committee meeting, because it was contained in Amendment 1. The Finance Committee, which became an integral part of the bill. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Ljubomir Mucic. Explanations for, if you did not follow, therefore, the amendment was practically accepted and became an integral part of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this is about the same text, I would just like to point out some things, given that we have really paid a lot of attention to the amendments at the Committee's session and that, for some reason, certain amendments have not passed, have not been accepted and supported by the Committee, and here, this amendment is supported and I am, as regards the proposal of the next amendment, giving up - I deliberately say give up that amendment, because it is principled. I would like to say, however, that all these amendments, which have been addressed here today, are not just a mere pile of paper and a personal desire of MPs, which shows that these amendments, which I have submitted and accepted by the Committee and agreed to by the Government. Reading all the amendments, submitted by MPs, I noticed that some have been systematically and systematically prepared, some of them are pure professions, and some of the purely legal basis, what the government did not include in the drafts of its laws. Some are also local-patriot, as are this amendment, which was supported by the government. I can say that most of them should be found at least in the next review of the rebalancing or the amendment proposal and the addition of the Budget Law. What I have proposed by these amendments to Article 12 - I have suggested that the same status in this amendment and this article have some funds of former funds, which were previously used on the basis of the Government of the Republic of Serbia programme and which it either gave consent to by the Government of the Republic of Serbia or by those programmes. In order to continue to carry out the responsible job of removing the consequences of earthquakes in the Kolubar district, and also to rebuild the country, since these funds are related to one law, by law on financial transaction taxes, I have proposed that within this article, the government of the Republic of Serbia delivers a financial plan to remove both the consequences of bombing and war damage, and also to remove the consequences of earthquakes in the Kolubar district, on a proposal from the construction ministry, and with the agreement and proposed programme of the Council's work on construction and development of the Kolubar district, which has so far established a work programme. This is a principled amendment, to the intentional use of funds, at position 68, division 12, as well as from a certain position in Section 6, 10 and 29, and I will always fight that the principles and arches in the budget are equal and uniform to all, regardless of which one the Proposer is concerned. That is why I have principled and given up on this next amendment, and I want to remind the minister that I have not received an answer to one of the two questions, as regards the debate in principle, which is - whether the unforeseeable funds for the permanent budget reserve, where it is legally envisaged now that after the amendments to the law are introduced 0.5%, instead of 1%, will this increase the budget deficit and what about the funds for the elections, are they also planned under donations, or will in some other way be provided, and the answer to the question - for which and how much territory does Serbia provide for 200 million dinars in the name of preparation costs for the census? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2655	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? He's not answering. I put to vote the amendments of MP Ljubomir Mucic. Otherwise, the amendment was accepted in fact, in order to know what it was about, because it was contained in the amendment of the Finance Committee, which was adopted and became an integral part of the law. But in any case, this is what we say by voting. For 52, against 80, abstentions, 9 did not vote 17, a total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 13th amendment. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? If you are referring to a decision under the previous amendment, it does not matter what the result of the vote is, as the amendment is already included. It was really hard to understand how to vote, there was a problem, such a case we already had with Mr Simonovic's proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2656	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13, which I request that this member be deleted. It is one of the countless amendments in which MPs have been trying to build up on qualitative changes all the shortcomings this budget has. This budget was drawn up by the Ministry of Finance headed by the finance minister, and apparently in relation to the number of amendments, it is enough for itself to say how much this expert government has made it. An expert government with a small million vice-presidents, who are actually presidents of DOS parties and who thus satisfy their personal ambitions and the world, and on the other hand experts should probably be made up of ministers. One of these experts is the finance minister and that expertise has asked me to submit this amendment to Article 13. Why delete it? One of the reasons lies in one small finding, and I'd like to make it very interesting to give it to me. Three people in three different bodies, and these are the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly and the Secretary-General of the Government, in one way they are in a position to all handle 162 million dinars. On the other hand, there are five programmes within the five ministries, which are very likely to be important for these ministries, would otherwise not have been proposed and would not have been included in the budget, which are next. Division 13, position 73, that's an incentive in tourism -- 18 million, division 14, position 78, that's the queen of the Serbian emigrants -- 1.400,000, division 16, position 91, that's baby week -- 960 thousand dinars, division 19, position 124, these are the programmes of the Ministry of Culture -- 110 million and division 21, position 133, these are the special purposes of the Ministry of Faith -- 30 million, all of which is 160 million, 160 million very important for the population of Serbia to achieve these programmes planned for these purposes. And at the same time, it means 162 million in three faces. That's what the expert government is about. We have led to the fact that the purpose of this budget is not to meet the needs of the population, but to achieve individual opportunities to manipulate the budget. As you gave Covic 500 million, so here we have the situation that the secretary of our Assembly, according to his boss, his current mood, is given the opportunity to temporarily alter the allocation of funds provided for individual purposes, except for the funds provided for by the government. What's temporary? Everything he does means permanent. So there's no temporary and it's undeniable that these three secretaries are the administrative executives of these three organs and three apparatus. It is indisputable, but you put them in a position that what they are not, that they now become financial experts, that they personally determine by their boss what is temporary over what is necessary in relation to what may have been agreed earlier. You give them the opportunity that as individuals they have the opportunity to manipulate. Such an expert is the Paris student finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2657	If no one ever answers for a word after this amendment, I am putting the amendment of the People's MP Bozidar Vujic to the vote. For 14, versus 107, no one abstained, 10 voted, a total of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 13th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have rejected this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2658	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. President, the amendment to Article 13 refers to a representative from the ruling DOS coalition, who is not present in this room and you will think it is Nebojsa Covic. We talked about him yesterday, with you interrupting my presentation when I explained the sins of Nebojja Covic and why the government of the Republic of Serbia should not trust him with 500 million dinars to manage so-called. The co-ordination body for Bujanovac, Preshevo and Bear. And while mentioning that, as Nebojsa Covic continues with the Shiptar terrorists to negotiate and during today's day, and pompously last night at the DOS, she announces that 56 times his truce with the Shiptar terrorists was violated, four Serbian police officers were seriously wounded and injured in the attacks of the Cypriot ballistics, and that is why it was obvious, and today, the government made a mistake. The error seems to be both with Articles 13 and 13, I said, the person not present in the O.R. It is already known to everyone and half, of course, negative things for all citizens of Serbia famous Georgia Maric, who knew that this amendment was on the agenda and better five minutes ago. Here he comes back. Since Mr. Maric has returned, he will be good at hearing why the National Assembly should not vote this member in the Budget Law and why such a member should not be trusted that under this amendment, as the member says, Section 2: "The Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia may, within Section 2, temporarily alter the schedule of funds provided for individual purposes". These funds, believe it or not, amount to 4.5 million dinars. Do you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Secretary-General Georgi Maric's work so far, give the general public who monitors the National Assembly's sessions, think that this man can be trusted with the preservation or deployment of 4.5 million dinars in 2001. Of course, the answer is negative, and I will support only some of the things that Mr. Georgia Maric has done in his already negative career at the post of secretary-general. Remember two months ago when he, as a true Hajduk, broke into the premises of the Serbian Radical Party's MP group, he brought out furniture and equipment for Serbian radicals, and then when he did so, the question was what time of night it was, he did not find it appropriate to inform any of the Serbian Radical Party's representatives that he had done so. So he's incompetent to communicate. He is unable to give authentic legal interpretations to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to yesterday's reaction by the President of the Assembly in interpreting the Rules of Procedure, which is being abused by both the president and the individual MPs of the so-called Parliament. The DOS, when the president told him -- look at it, look at it, find it, he began looking at the list, but couldn't find the member of the Rules of Procedure by which Serbian Radical Party MPs were prevented from showing their opinion to the end of the amendment. What we mentioned yesterday, and what is really a real picture and opportunity of such a secretary-general, is the fact that the former deputy secretary, Mrs. Marica Savic, on March 27th, presented a decision on the cancellation and that all this, if it were not regrettable, would be even more tragic in his explanation, a nice man signed up, stamped the National Assembly, he said, means, and he fired a woman who was a safe and honorable lawyer at the post of deputy secretary, he said - so this is how the appointed was just done. So this late solution isn't at her expense. Getting fired, on the contrary, is in her favor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, can you think that such a man may, under the Budget Law, in Article 13(2), be given the opportunity to trust him with any means whatsoever? Absolutely, that's impossible. So I suggest you vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2659	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2660	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is very thoughtful, because the provision in the draft budget law, in Article 13, doesn't make any sense. She's in conflict with Article 7. What are the special positions in Article 7 that concern these three divisions - the President of the Republic, the National Assembly and the Government - if the Secretary General can, by their own free will, relocate, interpret them as they please? Then why not just determine the amount for the President of the Republic, so let his secretary-general do with the money he wants, that's the amount for the National Assembly, so let the Secretary-General have free money, that's the amount for the Serbian Government, the Secretary-General freely available? You're just distracting us here, giving us special positions, and then leaving it right for the secretary general to change those positions at will. That doesn't make any sense. As for the Secretary General of the National Assembly, this solution convinced us that he was no lawyer. He's a disgrace to the Law School, where he eventually won his degree. Maybe Gašo Knezevic produced that diploma because we know from experience how much Gašo Knezevic sold his grade. There are numerous testimonies about this. For about 300 marks, the exam was very easy to take. That secretary general has no knowledge. You DOS people who are deaf, that's your problem, and I don't care. That man can't afford money. He must not be trusted with two sheep on guard duty, from the herd that Vladan Batic charged for his legal services.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2661	There is a word Mr. Jovanovic has to say, noting that the secretary general, whom the National Assembly does not have at all, is constantly talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2662	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not the only untruth that's being pronounced today by my opposition colleague, Mr. Seselj. The draft budget, which he signed in front of the Republic government, in the draft budget for 2000, includes 56 accounts opened for special purposes. Only at the Justice Department 10. To understand how much at the same time the government, whose protagonist is prominent, although he has only one question for every kind of negative consequence that follows the results of the government, says that he did not know about the government that is so, in opposition status, concerned about the roads of money, I have only one question - why, as people so responsible for state resources, had 56 special accounts in the 2000 budget, and only four people who as budgetary inspectors were in charge of controlling 50 or 60 billion dinars, how much did this country spend last year?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2663	Mr. Seselj - replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2664	Special purpose funds had various ministries. What were those special purposes? It's building repairs and apartment building. You've been putting up with the final bill for the past year, and you're making sure that the money is right, by law, spent. I signed the intentions, and you now determine whether they've been spent on purpose. If not, you call for responsibility. Since October, I haven't been vice president of the government. I called for responsibility, I'll tell you a few examples -- the government gave 20 villas to sell and buy apartments for the police. A few times in writing, I asked for a report. The minister didn't file a report. I, as Deputy Prime Minister, publicly attacked him for it. That was all over the media. He's been replaced for it. He had to resign at our request. Now you find out if it's spent on purpose. Why are you warning me here? The two officials, which are concerned, bear the name of the secretary general. One's a secretary, but he's not a general. What does that mean if I called him general? Maybe he wants to be general. Maybe it's the same as Colonel Vuksic. Colonel Vuksic wanted to be a general his whole life. He failed, for 20 years he was a colonel, retired and hated Milosevic. He went with him to Dayton, participated in the signing of the Dayton Agreement, hoped for a general act, loved Milosevic, sworn in it. Mr. Seselj, please let us go back to the subject. When he retired without a general act, he suddenly froze him pathologically. I want you to advance that secretary of yours as a general, but when I tell you he's a bad lawyer, take it because it's justified, because he tells you he's a regular law professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2665	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? Nobody. I put to the vote the amendments of Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. For 43, against 115, there were no abstentions, there was no 9 vote, a total of 167 MPs. I find this amendment not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2666	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope this time the President of the Assembly doesn't turn off the power, because I'm going to stick to the subject strictly. I don't know why he shut me out last time, a team before I talked about the subject, and the subject was really very interesting. If the only reason I mentioned the name of Nebojja Covic, i.e. the owner of the company FMP Trade, is because the name of the company "trade" rhymes with theft, then I accept that the President of the Assembly, based on the suggestion here, here the case, which is why I submitted the amendment, did what he did. So, the amendment to Article 13, I've submitted for many reasons. First of all, because the secretary of the National Assembly has so far proved to be neither man nor expert in his work. He also, as secretary, obstructed the work of the National Assembly, which was by not preparing certain documents necessary and necessary for the work of the Assembly. So the secretary of the assembly on several occasions sent to search for documents that had been lost and needed for the work of the Assembly. Also, the Secretary of the Assembly is proud of the MPs, and, above all, the MPs of the SRS, whom I belong to, in such a vulgar and uncompromising manner, and a common choban or quaint, as it is called in the village, would not be up to him. In order for me to give my explanation in that direction, I will have to follow the life course of that stone, that is, the choban of the village and the secretary that this is about. So, this acquaintance back in the days of the politburo...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2667	Now, did we go back to telling stories, the famous ones, or let's get back to the subject, to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2668	I'll be back, Mr. President, on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2669	Don't tell sad stories, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2670	The theme is that it's the same way as the secretary and the man I know. So, he was the secretary of a rural communist party organisation, but he ended up like I predict he'll end up with this secretary. In fact, it's about that secretary wherever he pointed his finger falling heads or people being shot...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2671	This is about funds, not... Mr. Keseiæ, could you just listen to me for a second, I'll let you carry on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2672	Secretary of the Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2673	Nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2674	... points to employees in the Assembly who lose their jobs. It is about Marica Savic, who was deputy secretary of the assembly, who lost her job only because she was not like her work in the Republic Assembly, because she was an honest woman. These machinations, which are provided for in this amendment, could not happen, therefore, to this Article 13. Article 13 speaks of the secretary of the assembly being able to dispose of all the funds related to division 2 except for salaries belonging to MPs and workers in the National Assembly. If those funds are excluded, 180 million dinars, that means that with 85 million dinars, the Secretary of the Assembly could be available. In such hands, therefore, as I had to show the secretary, who by no means gave the trust of a decent man, first of all, and then the expert, I submitted an amendment to delete a member of this law for that reason. I'm sure it would be very helpful for the Secretary of the Assembly himself, because he's not going to end up as a secretary...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2675	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2676	... The local community of the village, as a square, i.e. a horseman, would end up guarding two geese, and the gentleman present here, Mr. Georgia Maric may also end up in prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2677	If no one is answering for a word anymore, I will put this amendment to the vote, with the remark that, on several occasions, MPs in the framework of the amendment are talking about issues that fall within what is called applying for the resolution of people in certain functions. Please separate these things according to the Rules of Procedure. Of course, we can do all that, and then we can talk about it. When the laws are on the agenda, let's discuss the laws. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 39, against 115, a abstentioned no one voted 10, a total of 164 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2678	In Article 16(1), I quote: "Incomes which have been wrongly paid or paid at a higher amount than prescribed are returned to the burden of wrong or more paid revenue, and if the special regulation is not otherwise laid down". My amendment deletes the decimal and the rest of the sentence, so that the amendment, i.e. this item 1, should read as follows: "Incomes that are wrongly paid, or paid at a greater amount than prescribed, return to the burden of wrong or more of the revenue paid". I find it quite logical and correct, if the taxpayer pays more or wrongly the tax amount, that that amount be paid back to him, not to leave the finance minister or I don't know who to take away the taxpayer by some regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2679	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I am putting MP Zlatan Jovanovic's amendment to the vote. Please plead. For 46, against 105, abstained no one, voted 12, a total of 163 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Stevan Kesejic submitted to the 16th amendment. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Voices from the O.R.: )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2680	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16. Proposal for a Budget Law item 2. I tried this amendment to prevent the most unscrupulous way of robbing the users of this division. In fact, Article 16 refers to the payment of funds to the beneficiaries of the budget and talks about the refund of funds for the wrongly paid funds. This does not refer to a period of return of funds to a division that should have been paid. As a result, there is a possibility that black funds can be created, that funds are unintendedly used and that these funds can remain on the wrong bill of payment until infinity. That means you can manipulate yourself with these means. For this reason, I have submitted an amendment in order for the funds wrongly paid back to a particular continent to be returned within a certain time limit. Within a period that would ensure that the funds provided for certain purposes could be used immediately and that there is no possibility that the Government, or the ministry in which the funds were wrongly paid, could use the funds for individual martyrs, which have been recently even published in the paper. It's when it comes to the security of an expert, that through certain banks she's been paid in the name of a donation, the funds went through the "Cepter" without the expert and the agricultural producers getting it. In order to avoid such a possibility from this example and in this law, I suggest that the wrongly paid funds are returned to a particular continent within three days. So that you do not stand on the line until it makes someone favorably, that the funds can be used for other purposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2681	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment of MEP Stevan Kesejic to the vote. For 41, against 102, three abstentions, 16 did not vote, and 162 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have rejected this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2682	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is necessary for the Assembly to accept this amendment because the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Prime Minister Djindjic, in the projection of the budget and through the drafting of all members of this law, did not take care of one very important thing, and this is about the situation in which the Kragujevac car factory is located today. You all know that NATO's unfeeling aggression of 78-day flag almost to the ground has destroyed, mostly its most vital parts, and that the then Government of the People's Unity has done everything in its power to help the flag for a very short time amount of about $150m. The amount in such a difficult situation, in the country, following such destruction of our economy and infrastructure, the government of the Republic of Serbia has provided assistance, has qualified the flag to re-work, to produce. Last year, in 2000, between January 1st and March 31st, around 2,800 cars were produced in the Zastava car factory. Today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as of October 5th, since the revolution of the coup, the flag absolutely produces nothing, does nothing, like most factories in our country, our entire economy. Today, Zastavni workers, all employees, and those who are on paid leave and those who go to work, they are in a small number, receiving poor earnings, almost nothing, and on the other hand, Prime Minister Djindjic recommended to them from state television, from Dossovsia, that in every sense, in a geographical sense, for so many, 10,000 employees in the Zastava car factory, there is room in our Serbia, but that there is no place in the flag for them. That's what you, ladies and gentlemen of the DOS, promised and deceived both the flag workers and workers across our country. When you went out in a campaign for September and December elections, you promised towers and cities and you said that immediately after taking over from the DOS, there was 6 billion dollars, and Djindjic said the other night -- show me any strategic ino partner who is now ready to invest $5 billion in the flag, as long as it takes. That's exactly the number he mentioned in order for the factory to recover. We, participating in the Government of People's Unity, after such aggression, with $150m, which Americans will never give to you or will never give to you until then, and it is your deadline, today is the last day of what you need to do, while delivering all Serbs charged with alleged war crimes and sending them to the showcase for Serbs in The Hague, until you meet all their conditions, on the autonomy of Vojvodina, on the secession and dispersion of our country, and therefore I think it is necessary that all state authorities, which I propose this amendment, be bound exclusively by the approval of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, buy vehicles of domestic production at the flag factory. One logical question arises, after all the nadal and harmful things you've done in just six months of your reign, after a coup, what do they buy and what is the number of cars that now have a flag to sell? That number, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen MPs, is very small, for the simple reason that in the first days following your revolution in the flag, as well as in many other state firms and institutions, people with long and short pipes are turned on, and this time at the head of the famous Miodrag Savivić, who is still proven in communist times as proteges of Broz's regime and who, when he was director of Genesis, has spent 20 million dollars for only one day on the London Stock Exchange, according to his own recognition. The flag has to be helped, but the question is, how can the flag go on, with your policy like that, when you go tending to it, all of your... (President: Time. ....................................................................................................... By performing and by having a vassal relationship with those who give you orders, for your complete political moves, for creating budgets, for destroying our economy, and that it is so unsold for your sake. I think it's necessary, and I believe that soon, by changing power, the flag will try to stand on its feet and find a strategic partner to continue in some changed circumstances to operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2683	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2684	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is a very serious amendment. I'm sorry, honestly, that you're taking him so seriously. It is very important for the entire Kragujevac, Šumadija, Serbia, for the Zastava factory to recover. Her recovery began during the term of office of the last government, and you ruined it all. Since you and the automatic rifles broke into the flag, she's hardly doing anything, and for the first three months of this year, as I learned a day or two ago, only 400 vehicles managed to sell. The government of Serbia and the state authorities under its control, have not bought a single car of foreign production in 2.5 years. Only the flag vehicles were purchased. You know, you can do that. [[Sagar.]] You take Karaicic's mind of what kind of gatherings you're going to, because I hear homosexuals fighting around Belgrade more and more. Don't do what you do in your paper. All you can think of is lies and slanders. Check first. No foreign production vehicle was purchased by the Serbian government. On the initiative... (speaks - "pejo"). What "pee"? (Glass: Lepenov.) What Lepenov? Is that what the Serbian government bought? So how can the Serbian government buy Lepen's "pejo". Watch your mouth. You don't have three grams of people's brains, what's wrong with you, what you're saying, what you're making up. It's not on the Serbian Radical Party's initiative. The Serbian government has passed a special regulation and I signed the regulation. That no state body or public enterprise can buy a vehicle from foreign production. Everyone listened to us, respected the regulation, except for the authorities of local self-government and their public enterprises, where the former coalition "Together" was in power. They're the only ones who disobeyed that regulation. And the flag, thanks to that, and among other things, could have made it much easier to place its vehicles. And now you're not worried at all. While you thought he was still in the flag, somewhere in some safe, the rest of the money that the Serbian government invested, you were chasing with automatic rifles. When you saw that the money was gone, you raised your hands from the flag and flag again and again every day more and more.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2685	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 41, against 118, there were no abstentions, there were no five votes, out of a total of 164 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have two more amendments and a vote in general, which is 10 minutes, then we'll take a break. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 19th amendment. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2686	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment that has the same meaning as the previous amendment by Ms Natasha Jovanovic, also a member of the SRS. I simply cannot believe that there are so many indignations in this congregation according to the proposals of individual amendments that are to be used to revitalise the economy, and you know how it is. Besides, you're in power. It's your responsibility. What we want to try is to fix the situation. There's no one who doesn't know what the situation is in the flag, and there's probably no such thing as a benevolent one who doesn't want to help. I am aware that you are doing most of the work and that you must do as the Government has suggested, which was elected to the NATO Pact on 5 October and then elected by your MPs, so you must listen. But I just can't imagine that there's at least not a shred of desire to help what's national. And the flag is of both national and state interest to this state of Serbia. I don't believe there's any desire between you not to. In any case, this amendment tends to do what the previous government did, to protect in some way national production. On the one hand, it is, on the other hand, to introduce certain types of savings in the means that are in any case collected from all inhabitants. In the budget, which is so much bigger than last year, it seems to me that the finance minister has another name and last name, regardless of what it will insult him, the way the funds will be raised in the budget looks like he's some little Mula Yusuf. That they're tights, instead of serving as taxes. "The flag," I repeat, is of national interest again, and it would be time for all of you who are members of the DOS and those who make up this government, this government, tell Minister Djelic that "citroen" is not domestic production. That "citroen" is French production, and if he came from France, he doesn't have to introduce French views to us. Our home vehicle is a flag. And if he could have such a size as Mr. Dobrica Cosic, he wouldn't be under the honor of riding in "jugo-floridi", if he could ride in "jugo-floridi", which are now the size of this government that can't do it in a domestic vehicle. If he wants to ride in a "citroen", it seems that some other MPs think domestic production and a domestic vehicle is what's called SR Germany, but it's not, the flag is domestic. You through this budget and through the refusal of this amendment, and you will reject it as you have rejected Mrs Natasha Jovanovic's proposal, show how much you have on your heart is the flag and several thousand cooperatives who co-operate with the flag. It is hundreds and thousands of workers in this country, and you also show how much you want to restore production in this country of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2687	Does anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2688	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize to my DOS colleagues for answering my word, but I had to. I had to take this. I refer to both Article 98 and Article 99. Rules of Procedure. One speaks of the subject, the other speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly. You know, gentlemen, there's no law on the agenda on the Red Flag recovery from Kragujevac, or any regulation that would go that way. We're discussing the draft budget. Mr. Seselj himself had just said that he was making some kind of regulation that he was editing cars to buy. So no one said this government would not support domestic car production. Let her go. Wait till you see what she buys, then criticize her. But if we start in the budget law to sort out where we're going to get what we're going to get, then I'm running for "Matroz" for paper, "Knjiz Milos" for acid water, etc. Let's take this seriously. The government will surely support domestic production, and if it does not support it, then criticize it. But let's not talk about such topics this time. It's not serious. This is the Serbian Parliament. (Vojislav Seselj - from the place: You are very nervous. I did, Mr. Seselj, I'm very nervous.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2689	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please state by voting. (Božidar Vujić, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Warning that I should interrupt the speaker when they escape the topic of the agenda - that was it?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2690	Mr. Chairman, I'll try to find out what member of the Rules of Procedure you gave the predecessor your word for. He is not a representative of any parliamentary group, nor is he a representative of the government, he is just a vice president. By what member?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2691	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2692	What part of the Rules of Procedure did you give? That's how you broke this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2693	Mr. Sabic asked for a word about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, he got the word. He didn't present a member, like you don't. Please go outside and discuss it. [[growls]] We're not in any kind of conflict, so go outside and discuss it. Now it's lunch break, so... I put it to a vote, in the third attempt, this amendment. For 36, against 121 abstentions, there were no five votes, out of 162 members of parliament. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The last amendment is an amendment to Article 28, which was submitted by the Financial Committee. The government's representative agreed to this amendment at the meeting of the Finance Committee. Since the Government's representative has accepted the amendment of the Finance Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, and the decision on amendments, does the proposing representative want the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2694	Mr. President, Madam Vice-President, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to thank everyone for this first, least of all, discussion about the budget. It has brought a few good ideas, and I would simply like, in this closing word about the first item of the agenda, about the 2001 budget, to talk about six key points and to point out, and to repeat what the main priorities of this budget are, in six equally short points. First, I start with these remarks and ideas -- there have been stories that this budget is inflatable and I have to say that it's extremely surprising to hear it from people who have been in power for the last ten years who have produced two hyperinflations in this country, including one that is the second largest in mankind's history. Therefore, I would also like to introduce you to the inflation that was last year, which is 113%, of which is 27%, and then 18% produced by the syphilic liberalisation price, when the outgoing regime released all the prices of what held administratively for two or three years, and thus to introduce you to the last data we received this morning, that inflation in March was 0.9%. So for the first quarter, it's all going to be 7.6%, multiply by four, you'll see that those 35 are quite feasible, with this method is going to be something more, but we expect smaller inflation, when we need to coordinate this, but we're doing it planically, controlled, and as far as electricity is concerned, and tax reform, we talked about these figures, they're small, and thus inflation is going to be much smaller in the second semester of this year, in the second half of this year. [[Applause]] Otherwise, it seems to me that it's a very responsible budget, that we're going to keep inflation at this level, and it's better to look at facts than to bid with some figures so-called. It's an experiment. As far as the discussion itself is concerned, we have made one smaller calculation and, in some ways, that is normal when it comes to budgetary discussion, when we adopt all amendments, the budget should be increased. And many have said that the budget is too big, and, as it is not, we talked about it yesterday, because when all the special accounts are collected, when you see everything that was a quasi-fiscal deficit, which was hidden in the EPS, "Matroz" and other businesses, you see that the opposition was going to add another 67.58 billion dinars of cost to it. At the same time, he proposed to cut 12.2 billion costs, up to 55 billion in total and another 45% in additional budget expenditures. Well, he can't do both. It can't be said that it's not enough, that there's more to talk about, and on the other hand, about some irresponsible budget. It seems to me that it shows - and we also saw from the discussion that some have asked to create an incentive for exports, some of us did not want to hear about some agency for it, it seems to me that it is necessary, and given the situation in our economy, and I guess we all agree - that this budget is precisely the one budget of the balance of what was difficult to conclude. And my fellow ministers have seen how difficult these discussions have been to get to this budget, which seems to me to be a moment of balance in a given, difficult situation between our society and our country. The third question was about the MUP and the Homeland Security Zone -- I have to say that it's pretty strange, I would say even rude to speak or bid -- the moment we have so many people killed, four soldiers, 12 cops, seven citizens in the last few weeks, and this policy, we've seen in the last few days, is giving some success. And she's inherited, and she's making a improvement on what's inherited. When it comes to these famous 500 million, I guess it's clear to everyone that it's there in case something terrible happens, to help civilians, to fix some infrastructure, in case it's bad, and I, of course, hope that we don't have to spend it, because it's going to mean that this new policy, mind policy, dialogue policy and national minorities, and with the international community, will continue to bear fruit, as it has begun to produce fruit. The fourth thing is Kosovo. Let me repeat once again that it's not absolutely true that we only separated 80.8 million dinars, but by the division I was talking about yesterday, we predicted 404,000 dinars. Why this has not been made so and already today - because it is regulated by law to do so, according to one programme that will be brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you will all be notified in good time. And in addition, of course, those salaries for all those who are either in Kosovo, or, unfortunately, today, displaced in Serbia, to whom we have foreseen what belongs to them by law, which is an additional 1,700,000 thousand, and so we come to a figure of 2,200,000, as it should - and my colleague Obren Joksimovic said and so we will behave - neither those officials nor any other in the rest of our state administration will be able to enjoy certain privileges if they are not suitable. As for the fifth point, I'd just like to say a word or two about education. Since some have called for the need to help education, it seems to me that some have moved with guns on that education. I just want to remind myself of some facts -- for the last two and a half years before October, that means what was since January 1997, so sometime until October 2000, the education was still falling, only one time their salary increased by 20%, and that was in March 2000. We found a condition that on average they had a salary of 60 marks. Since then, what happened -- two things -- we've abolished the solidarity log, and that's one imposition that, if we hadn't abolished it, today was 12 billion dinars for our citizens, and on the other hand, as you know, since October, so far, I think it's a very appropriate deal that was made with the unions, we've managed to improve this very ugly material position and move on that way. Of course, today's 110-120 marks aren't enough, but enlightening has finally, after so many years, been getting better. We said they were a priority and we proved it, we proved the decisions we made on their salaries, since October, we proved by that agreement that was very important, because it was signed by all the unions and it applies to the whole year, and it seems to me a very responsible document. The government will honor what she signed and we also expect the union to honor what they signed, and there will be no strikes, if we, as we plan, are fair to them. And finally, the sixth thing I'd like to mention is what was called transparency. There were a lot of stories about what was said here and what was said there. In terms of transparency, I prefer some kind of domestic word called "honest." And I am thus announcing today that we are already working on a draft bill on the budgetary procedure, which we are going to propose in a few weeks or a few months, if there is room in parliament, because it seems to me that a few questions are standing here -- I think we need to edit the budget procedure more precisely, and adopt the budget, and execute even more like a normal country. That's why I think we should adopt that document for a certain time. Finally, I conclude that I would like to remind you of those priorities, those key items of this budget, which is -- firstly, that this is a budget of savings, some things have already been decided, but every day we will try to reduce the volume of consumption, by chasing every luxury, all the inappropriate privileges and seeking rationality in spending. Secondly, we will work very actively to curb the grey economy, we have started with checkpoints at the administrative borders with Kosovo and Montenegro, let's move on with that oil regulation and you will see these days and next week very decadely we will go into that fight and deal with it, because that is one of the key things, so that we can provide money for health care, for education, for all that is priority. The third thing is pay grade. Many have talked about some wages in local self-governments, they won't be bypassed, and therefore, they don't return to any communist times of any kind to any sort, where any pay gaps are not recognised, because I think they're appropriate. Simply, we'll do a little more justice in that, and with that, we'll go out in a few weeks before the public and in front of you. The fourth thing is to coordinate with federal institutions, with the federal government and the military, we asked them, and these days they already decide to live on the same foot as us. It's the same budget. Unfortunately, Montenegro is not being paid into our federal budget, so we must live on the same foot and they have already launched some actions in this regard. Finally, if we're talking about priorities, I just want to repeat that these are education, health care, labour education and the classification of those who are the most endangered. That concludes what I wanted to tell you. I want to thank everyone for the discussion, and I just want to say that, of course, this budget isn't the budget that we've been dreaming about, it's not the budget that could reconcile what's most necessary in many segments of our society, but it seems to me that this is the budget of reality, the budget that we're having today, and I'm just asking you to vote, because it seems to me that's the best thing we can do at the moment. He doesn't solve everything, but it seems to me to be a significant step towards the recovery of our country, not just by the authorities, but by the whole of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2695	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I am voting on the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001 as a whole. For 125, against 25, there were no abstentions, there was no 5 vote, out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001. The work continues at 1600 hours. [[After break - 16,10]] I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. Please insert your identification cards. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. We'll continue the session at 4:25 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2698	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, since this agrarian budget is related to the budget that we have already adopted, it is my duty, although it is contained in the Bill which has already been adopted, to explain Article 1. Proposal for a law on the Agrarian budget. I have suggested that in Article 1 instead of 5,100,000 dinars, the Agricultural budget is 6,630,000,000 dinars, and I give the following explanation: In the previous presentation of the work relating to agrarian, related to agriculture, I came out with the most important statement that farmers should be given new conditions so that they can deal with agriculture and feed this people. For agriculture to work successfully and successfully, a factor in this segment is also water economy. That water is a dry need for both agriculture and the population, I'm going to give a few indicators about it. We have three spheres of action in the area of water industry. It's: water treatment, water protection and water use. Water, as a segment of the success of healthy life and the feeding of the plant and animal world and human race, has been on our premises over the past years and in the coming period because of the water balance and what an important factor. I must point out that the needs of the population in the water are seen in a 2.800-cubic digital indicator of water per capita, that our water resources have 1,500 cubic cc's of water per capita. From that you can see that this is not all in one coalition and that we need to take care of it. First of all, we have water on the edges of the Republic, and our low areas, where our industry, where our business entities, where our population and fertile ornaments, are lagging behind our capacities, both in underground betrayals and in water streams. For this reason, the capacities planned in the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia, such as multi-purpose accumulations that are scheduled to be built for years and not completed due to lack of funds, are the Selova and Prvonek diving systems. For this reason, these funds are needed, in this section proposed, to be more isolated, to be completed and to build regional water systems and water supply systems in the country's lower parts. For this reason, at this point it should be devoted to this factor of very important items. As far as the area of water protection is concerned, this is a country that has built the best water protection systems with its capacities and its professional strength and personnel, and in Europe we are known for it. We protected the agricultural areas, protected a bunch of industrial buildings and cities. I believe that these systems should be paid full attention, because 3,500 km of defensive embankments, 1,500 km of regulatory structures, 39 and more dedicated accumulations, deserve to be given a little more attention to the maintenance of these systems. Not to mention hydromellating systems, such as the Danube-Tisa-Dunav systems, such as the Nadalna system in Vojvodina, such as the hydrosystems that started to build in the Negotin String. All this is saying that in this area, all for the benefit of citizens and agriculture, much more resources should be allocated than they are. For this reason, as well as other reasons, I believe that in all these proposals that I have made, this amendment should be adopted. I can say that there is also one good co-operation here with other representatives of the now leading DOS party, because in the Committee on Agriculture, I think that we have had opinions that we have given to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the Agrarian budget should not be raised this much, but within some reasonable limits. The amendment was submitted by the Committee, but the government did not adopt a proposal from its board, and the Committee proposed from 500,000 dinars to 5,900,000 dinars. The government has suggested that it be rejected as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2699	Before I give my word, if there is more under this amendment, I wanted to ask the MPs, since the largest number of amendments submitted to this law cannot actually be passed. They cannot be adopted because they are directly related to certain items in the already adopted Budget Law. So, any amendment proposing an increase in the amount of items already set out in the Law that we have adopted, as a suggestion, regardless of any justification, because that was already the case during the debate on the budget in particular, I strongly suggest that they consider the possibility of withdrawing the amendments, because they certainly cannot be accepted for this reason. Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering for a word, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 51, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, a total of 183 MPs present. I therefore find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2700	Since the finance minister isn't here, I'd like to thank his housekeeper who prepared that neighborhood and say she was good and delicious. What's being saved to the people of the country would be good and delicious if you'd filtered these sweet amendments into them. Without them, they will have bitterness, and tears will flow from their mouth instead of water. It's on your soul. Article 1 changes the amount of 5 billion and 100 million, it would take 6 billion and 500 million. The assets for agrarian in 2001 should be increased to 6 billion and 500 million dinars because the bill left out one significant area, which is fruit production and production of vegetable cultures. The proposed law on the use of the Agrarian budget in the current year 2001 left out one significant area that participates in a large percentage in the overall establishment of our country and employs a huge number of our population. In this proposal, no incentive has been planned at all for the development of fruit and vegetable cultures and for the improvement of the domestic fruit and vegetable processing industry. It may have been planned by some other legal act, but since it is a law that defines the Agrarian budget, it is necessary by this law to refer to this one, and what a significant part of the agrarian. Instead of helping domestic production, the processing of fruits and vegetables, our government is making it even more difficult for our government to do so, even more difficult to position agrarians. So we already have on our market agricultural products from imports at a lower price compared to the same domestic producers. For this example are the products "Fructal" from Slovenia and products from Germany in Pecabeta shops and other commercial houses in Belgrade, at so-called dumped prices, while the products of the same kind of domestic producers in these same facilities are not available at all. To that end, it is necessary in this proposal to implement the addition of Articles 1 and 2. In Article 1 instead of 5 billion and 100 million, put the amount of 6 billion and 500 million. In Article 2, after point 7, add point 8. - measures and actions to increase fruit and vegetable production, from a billion and 400 million dinars. Of course, you'll wonder where you'll get an extra billion and 400 million for the Agricultural Budget. It's a simple problem to solve. However, during this period, the government was deaf to all warnings and demands of the manufacturer for the protection of domestic production. Although there was a request from the country producer for the introduction of levies on fruit products from imports, free imports of the same products are allowed, with a minimum customs duty of 1%. Instead of protecting domestic production, the Slovenian anti-Serbian lobby, whose role is in breaking the previous Yugoslavia, as well as these SRJs, all of us well-known, under the code of free trade, low import prices, plan and long-term destruction of domestic production. The effects of such a quasimondialist policy will soon bring to you the subduing destruction of domestic industry, food products and bringing into an unenviable position of a large part of the population that is of which it exists. Since the majority of our population is involved in agricultural production and processing, especially in the food industry, a large number of agricultural owners and producers in the individual sector, it is necessary to provide for the protection of this part of the population by increasing budgets and introducing levies to be used for this particular purpose. As already required by domestic producers, the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture should urgently, together with consultations with relevant economic operators, bring protection, legal measures in the form of levies and appropriate customs rates on imports of agricultural products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2701	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering for the word anymore, I am putting MP Slobodan Janjic's amendment to the vote. For 48, against 123, abstained no one, voted 14, a total of 185 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st and 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that this amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2702	I'll be very brief. My amendment and the essence of my amendment is to try to secure some funds, which will be used for the purpose of building a possible irrigation system. I have to tell you that the initiative was launched at the assembly session of the municipality, and it was just by members of the DOS parliamentary group. Vote on your conscience. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2703	Is anyone else answering this amendment? If not, I'll put him to the vote. For 48, against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, and a total of 187 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Agriculture has submitted to Article 1 and Article 2 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has proposed that this amendment be rejected and the Government's representative did not accept this amendment. Does a representative of the Committee want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 50, against 69, with 26 abstentions, did not vote 42, a total of 187 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Miomir Ilic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that this amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept the amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 48, against 129 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, and a total of 187 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that this amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment. Is the applicant of the amendment, or is the applicant of the amendment justifiably absent, he reported his absence, does anyone else want a word? The word has a representative of the parliamentary group, please. The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2704	Dear Mr. President, honourable fellow Members, this proposal to amend the Agrarian budget would not significantly disrupt financial relations and some injustices would be corrected. First of all, in the case of unsettled liabilities from the previous period, the amount should be increased, but should be increased because this country owes large sums of money, i.e. large quantities of products to sugar beet producers. Only the sugar cane in Turkey owes the farmers of the Turkey, the Paracinal, the Jagodinian and other municipalities in this 275 million dinar environment. I would like to remind you that the Minister of Agriculture, in his presentation, also stressed that sugar production is one of the most significant production branches in agriculture and that sugar beet production depends much on how our peasants live and what life will be like in the country. If this is not adopted today, the obligation remains, it means that at some point, it will be necessary for the peasants to settle this obligation in order to regain their shared trust. In point 2, milk premiums, it is suggested that the hay be poured over where they belong, i.e. to move to the Fund for the promotion of livestock, so as to actually stimulate the production of milk, we would stimulate the increase of breeding cows’ herds, or herds of breeding cows, and thus producers would be stimulated to produce milk, and in this way so far we have stimulated the consumption, or sales of this product. Also, we have an extremely unfavourable situation in agricultural stations in the Republic of Serbia. Agricultural cells and institutes are reduced to the lowest possible level and to the lowest degree of equipment. Their work is important because of everything that is currently going on, and it happens that we have to fight a great fight against imports of agricultural products that are not adequate, which has led to the rule of panic in the West, so this way we want to strengthen the quality of control, I mean food products, that is, food products and food production. I think there's also a lot to get in the long run, and I don't think these arguments should be put lightly outside the domain of thinking, so they need to be reconsidered. We also have one phenomenon that has upset our agricultural producers in recent years, which is in some way the change in climate conditions in which we live and work. One year, as it was a few years ago, we had catastrophic floods on the territory of the Central Sea, we had catastrophic conditions, we had floods in Vojvodina, or the outbreak of groundwater, and the coming years of great drought. Great droughts are being announced this year. The proposal is that, in practice, a certain part of the funds should be shifted to water streams and shifted to the maintenance of these irrigation systems, as well as to the management of new systems. Practically, this proposal would not compromise the budget, and would contribute much to the long-term improvement and development of agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2705	Is anyone else answering about this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 47, against 122, two abstentions were maintained, not 16 votes, and 187 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that the amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2706	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just like to point out why I suggested that it increase from 2 million to 4.5 million dinars, or I apologize, to 4.5 billion. We've heard that the stock fund needs to be maintained, to spread everything else. There's a good example that led me to suggest it. Namely, the milkman at Zrenjanin's "Melcoproduct" has one very good thing. Each milk producer, which shall export 28. 1,000 liters of milk a year, he's employed and in a steady working relationship, he has salary, personal income as a master of the first category. And that milk would be cheaper, these subsidies should be introduced, the biomajor example must have been affected and other milk producers, combined with some milklers, in order to make a higher profit annually, and the same price of milk would have fallen, due to higher production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2707	If no one ever answers their word again, I'll put the amendments of the Marjanski MPs to the vote. For 48, against 125, there were no abstentions, there were no 14 votes, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that the amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2708	Thank you, Mr. President. As those from the Democratic Party of Serbia are becoming more and more subtle, it is obvious that some new times are coming. First, the purpose of this amendment is obvious. In order to increase the premium on milk production, not only to stimulate the production of this product, but to affect the social category, which is contrary to the Minister of Finance's statements, where he predicted in the budget that everything would be left to market conditions, and his exposure and his concept are contrary to what the prime minister put out in his exposé, which is to expect large external investments in the next period relating to investments in agriculture. The prime minister most likely thought that these investments, or part of that money, would be invested in the production of milk. I hope that he will be right and that it will be true when it comes to this part of the Agricultural Budget, that is, the Resor of Agriculture. I'm really afraid we're just not going as far as we've been since Republika Srpska, Montenegro, to drink milk from the wider region of Slovenia besides their home livestock fund. As our Minister of Agriculture, my doubts and fear are even more justified. Secondly, the fear is that there will be a complete destruction of the livestock fund, not an increase in milk production, as explained by the president of the DOS Parliamentary Group, as he gave ravishing speeches, as if he attended a school in Lepenski Vir, which Neda Arneric organised, which is "The Summer of the 99s", is a great fear that it will come true. I have an understanding for a man. The products used in the larger quantity are not intended by law or budget. It's a matter of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2709	If no one ever answers for a word again, I'll put the amendment to the vote. (Zahari Trnavcevic answers for word. On what basis? There's no basis. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 129 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Stevan Kesejic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that the amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2710	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can see that you're excited to see me, especially this DOS majority, but I'm not going to afford you this time to listen to only you, because I hope the President of the Assembly won't rip out the cables again. I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of this Act on the subsidy referred to in point 2 of the Regress for breeding cattle. In my amendment, I wanted to point out to the Ministry of Agriculture, above all, as well as to the Minister of the Resorship Ministry, which is why the SRS advocated an increase in the Agricultural Budget. I believe this amendment speaks of a very important sphere, of the procurement of fertility heroes, bulls and breeding sheep. It is a very important branch of agriculture, which has a very important impact on the general state of agriculture. The creation of quality breeding materials provides better consumption of livestock, and thus we create better races, especially cows with greater lactation, as well as greater meat production. As a result, the improvement of race structure in breeding cattle is justified by guaranteeing the nation that they will eat quality and healthy food. That through primary agricultural production they will produce healthy food and thus provide sufficient quantities of livestock food, which will not be genetically manipulated and will not be possible for individual ministers to import genetically manipulated food, such as soybean or any other culture. For example, the production of many cultures used in the livestock diet of Serbia, i.e. SRJ, is well known for both Europe and the world. That's why we need to deal with this problem a little more seriously when it comes to the genetic potential of breeding cattle. As a result, my amendment refers to an increase in the number of breeding heifers, bulls, sheep, and rams, in order to suffer as large herds and herds as possible. An increase of 52 million dinars, to the proposed 138 million and 200 000 dinars, would total 290 million dinars, which, of course, exceeds what the budget envisions and what the DOS majority voted for, but there are budget reserves and everywhere in the world the serious state places much on the race and quality of the breeding heifers, which are far better than the breeding bulls. With that in mind, there are probably some people here who understand better, well, since they'll probably back me up in this amendment, I've had so much to say about this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2711	If no one is responding to this amendment anymore, please be clear with the vote. For 48, against 117, abstention one, did not vote 18, a total of 184. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Stevo Dragisic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering. I put this amendment to the vote. Please plead. For 45, against 123, there were no abstentions, no vote 18, a total of 186. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that this amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2712	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, all the amendments submitted by the SRS MPs to the Agrarian Budget Bill and how they make sense, and especially because of the fact that we point to all the failures of the current authorities and that this budget of 5,100,000 dinars will certainly affect our agricultural producers in all sectors of agricultural production and because of the fact that certain agricultural areas should certainly be more stimulated. And this amendment of mine refers to the production of sugar beet, the premium of sugar beet regress, for the reason that you all know it's one of the basic provisions of life, and because of the fact that a kilo of sugar in our country, from September to today, in retail, is expensive, no less than four times. Sugar, which is sold at slightly lower prices, can mainly be obtained and supplied by citizens who are supplied in C-Market supermarkets. It's donation sugar and it's obvious that in addition to some tiny, almost no recorded help, these are donations that come to you from your friends from the Western countries. What I'm asking for with this amendment is that this is exactly the amount for the regressions and subsidies, which the government predicted from 492 million 800 000 dinars for sugar beet, to a billion and 100 million dinars. Why this is important - well it is important because sugar beet production is something that is not just so easy for agricultural producers to decide on, for the simple reason that more manual work is needed to produce sugar beet, meaning greater physical labour, and also because it is very important that our country has large production capacity and certainly that by stimulating sugar beet production we can employ all the plants in the sugar industry. What the President of the Assembly, Mr. Martian, has suggested to us, I could not accept and therefore use the time and I believe that, by now, these arguments in the production of sugar beet, I convinced you to vote for this amendment, because, saying that we already adopted the 2001 Budget Act, although close to the majority two hours ago, we practically have a situation for the government to listen to agricultural producers, regardless of how close the 2001 budget was adopted, to provide additional funding for each item that we are proposing, even for this one to increase the amount of nearly 500 million and 100 million. The strategy fully in the development of our agriculture should go in this direction to implement root reforms, to help agricultural producers and to make sure their premiums are paid in time, and I do not believe that this government and this minister will have enough hearing and will meet such expectations from agricultural producers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2713	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2714	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this restrictive provision of the Rules of Procedure, that only the heads of Parliament can report for a word when a debate is being held on certain amendments is indeed poorly formulated, poorly set, it is denying us the possibility of a more serious debate on all this. Of course, I did not want to report on several previous amendments, so that in the debate on this current amendment, Natasa Jovanovic, I would refer a little bit to your relationship with these amendments, which are very serious. I know that a large number of people here are not interested in agriculture at all, or agrarian politics at all. At least that's what the Minister of Agriculture is interested in, but agriculture is on a growing scale every day. We have terrible problems, now and with sugar, or sugar production, and with milk, or milk production, because of the unreasonable moves of the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture, we have now completely killed the desire in agricultural producers to even sow sugar tail. Many of you know that. He also knows Zechariah Trnavcevic, I am convinced. I read him the text in "Blas" on sugar production. It doesn't take much to get married here now that he was defeated last night by Natasha Jovanovic. Let him give an opinion where his opinion can be competent.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2715	Dear People's MPs, I, for a wonderful miracle, have not submitted any amendments to the Agrarian budget, although it is the area I have been working on for 53 years. Why I didn't take it -- I couldn't stand it because I think it's the right solution for a Yugoslav agrarian to invite this National Assembly, the Minister of Agriculture, to prepare a draft of a long-term agrarian policy, which we are going to discuss here and determine. It is not a matter of us competing here, as shown in these amendments, to increase all items in the Agrarian budget, among other things for the sugar and milk premium, but to run a different price policy, a different price parity. Proposers to increase items for milk premiums do not know that at this time milk already has more in offer than the absorption power of our market (alarm ambassador: There is no money. ). And that's true, and that's the fall of purchasing power. Therefore, I will propose, now I have told the head of the DOS Parliamentary Group, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, I will write a proposal and I hope that you from the opposition party will stand behind him, too, to discuss this. After all, during the election campaign, we promised and announced it. To establish an agrarian policy in which the price parity, land, water policy, credit policy, tax policy, reconstruction of the cooperative movement will be established. One of the most painful points of this stupefying agrarian Yugoslavia is that agricultural cooperatives have died, which they do not exist, which are completely peasants deprived of their democratic and economic rights to manage these joint affairs. Therefore, if I were you, of the 28 amendments, 24 Serbian Radical Party MPs submitted me, I would give up. I'd give it up and support this proposal, which I hope will soon be filed. It could also be the conclusion of the National Assembly, to invite the Serbian government to do so sometime in June of the month, when we pass the whole phase of new laws, we do so. It's a very serious and long-term job, believe me, it's what a peasant needs, one sense of security, one sense of certainty, one sense of clarity, what he expects, what he can count on, what happens if he works well, if he uses science, etc. It's been a winter. Believe me, there's not even 50 lectures in the villages. To be immodest, I organized 20 and organized it in different places. Therefore, dear MPs, let us agree on this question if we have the interest of the people and that poor peasant who has been corrupt for 10 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2716	If no one ever answers for a word after this amendment, I am putting Natasa Jovanovic's amendment to the vote. For 51, against 123, there were no abstentions, no 12 votes, a total of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that the amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2717	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Agrarian budget for which I have foreseen in the budget to be planned and systematically determined at a sum of 10 billion dinars is not accepted, so I have therefore submitted to this agrarian budget an amendment to Article 2 of point 3, where the amount of 492 million for premiums, regressions and subsidies is projected to increase to 985 million dinars. I understand that the expert group headed by Mr. Djindjic and Mr. Djelic was over in America and that she got a befel there, as our people say, that this budget could be put on the agenda. They got the green light for this budget, but they also got certain conditions that need to be met by our people. I don't think these conditions should be linked to the Agrarian budget and to our peasant. All of our amendments, the Serbian Radical Party, which we have highlighted here today and in previous days in this assembly were denied by the board, the government and by colleagues of the DOS MPs, who were mostly unculturally and uncivilised in the presentation of each of our MPs. What do you want with the amendments, gentlemen of the DOS, when you have the six billion you expect, which we have not seen, nor will we see. Sugar tail is a plant that has its own fairy tale, that fairy tale is known to everyone and it's called "grandfather and tail." I don't want to talk about her this time. This amendment in Article 2 of the premiums are set at 0,20 d's per kilogram. I suggest that this premium be increased to 0,40 din per kilogram. This is a projection of our peasant's positive thinking for a long period of time. If our peasant is satisfied this year with a premium of 0,40 dinars, then the surfaces will increase significantly, without special instructions from any side and sugar tail gets its place in fields where it has not been as a culture so far. Sugars in Serbia were designed for larger quantities of sugar tails and we were once an exporter of sugar, and this amendment also improves the structure of the funds for sugar factories. The sugar-tailed fields have been reduced five and more times compared to the previous period. The seed plan is scheduled for 61,000 hectares. This amendment I propose will increase the surface area of the kilograms on those surfaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2718	Anybody else answer for a word? I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 48, against 112, one abstention did not vote 26, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that the amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2719	Article 2 of the proposed law is amended by changing the estimated amount of 492,800,000 dinars to 965,600,000 dinar under 2 premiums, regress and subsidy points 3, sugar beet premiums. The explanation - ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Veselinov, has paid enough attention to this subject. I think it is necessary to invest significantly higher funds in our Republic in terms of sugar beet premiums in a faster way than is proposed by the draft law. The amount I have proposed is solid means that could significantly accelerate sugar tail production. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, sugar beet production is part of the order of agricultural branches where the mechanism is most represented, as well as manual work. Given the obsolescence and age of machinery, the lack of spare parts, that's why I suggest increasing the original amount. As for the protection of sugar tails, investments are also large: protection from weeds, protection from sugar taps. Ladies and gentlemen, sugar beet production is a serious activity in agriculture, we have seen this year how reduced the yields are, by three to four times, whether because of the drought, because we are weak with the irrigation system or because of the poor use of agrotechnical measures, because there was no means to do so. This all affected last year's sugar beet production. The production of sugar beet at 61,600 ha with total production of 2,466,000ton is foreseen. I think wishes are one and the other's reality. This year, she was a weak organisation for the regression of repromaterials. It's already been too late for that campaign, so warlords are always on their own. We Serbian radicals think that Mr. Agriculture Minister Veselinov played this branch of agriculture with this promise and it would be honorable and fair if he resigned. The villagers don't need politicians, they need experts from this area. Sugars are in bad shape. First, if we look at the sugar shop in the Caves, it is located in a very difficult material condition, first because the equipment is obsolete and secondly because the means to maintain its technological systems are very small. The Mitrovica sugar shop is also, the Sabbath sugar shop has been closed for years. There's only a couple of sugars in Vojvodina that still work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2720	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 46, against 121, a abstentioned one, was not voted 19, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that this amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2721	Ladies and gentlemen, I expected this amendment to be submitted by a member of the board of directors of the tobacco industry in Nis, but since he didn't do it, I had to do it. (Vojislav Seselj - from the place: Which? ). Aleksandar Krstic, board member. (Vojislav Seselj - from the place: Is it DOS? Of course. This is the amendment to Article 2(4). - tobacco premiums. I suggest that the projected amount of 360 million dinars be increased to 720 million dinars. To be constructive, given that the budget is adopted and that it is now difficult to do some budget revisions, we can schedule a new session immediately after this session - budget rebalance, and find the funds that exist in the budget reserve or funds that will be received from donations, or privatisation. It turned out that it doesn't matter how much we adopt the budget, because it still stands in the budget of the revenue side of 107 billion, and by reducing excise duties on gasoline and oil derivatives, at least 10 billion have been taken down. Well, instead of costing 97 billion, we still have an unreal amount of 107 billion. Tobacco production is a profitable business. It's a job that needs to be invested more in order to make a much bigger profit and to have conditions for greater production. After all, cigarettes, cigars, cut tobacco, chewing tobacco, pipe pipe, excise duty. From that, the state may also have much higher incomes and that these revenues from these excise duties, sales taxes and the like are used for much more useful things. The interest of citizens in tobacco production exists. In addition, the transformation in the economy can also expect a large surplus of labour, and in this way many citizens can be motivated to find their interest in tobacco production. It's a very difficult job, but it also brings good income. I have to tell you that up until now, tobacco has been imported all the way from Angola. A considerable amount of foreign currency has been spent. There were a lot of affairs in the tobacco industry around that tobacco. Bad varieties, poor quality, a quantity that was not adequately paid, all of which produced various affairs in the tobacco industry, and there was a lot of talk about it in Nis. We can become large tobacco exporters, instead of being importers of tobacco. Last year, it was the first time the premium was introduced on a delivery tobacco. I think it was 24 dinars a kilo. That has already yielded significant results. I said it's a very hard job, but it's a worthwhile job. Many houses on the street where Nebojsa Covic and former General Perisic live were made by the parents of these people earning tobacco. They're hard to get. Even so, Covic and the general got it from the state for free, and they don't know how to appreciate it. I think you've done a little bit of the budget for tobacco production, but you're obviously more interested in cementists, the oil industry, so you're sending people to the boards of directors there. Here, Vesic nods me and says - thanks for mentioning me, since he's a new member of the Cementara Management Board in Old Popovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2722	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Nobody. ) If no one answers for a word anymore, I put this amendment to the vote. For 46, against 117, a abstentioned one, was not voted 19, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that this amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2723	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Stamenkovic said almost everything about why funds should be increased in this item of the budget. I'll just remind you of two things. The first thing is the exposé of the Minister of Agriculture, who did nothing to say that tobacco production is our big export chance. I totally agree with that. However, with such premiums, regressions or subsidies, there is nothing to be done. By investing more, either from the budget reserve, whether from a fully unbalanced and non-transparent budget, at least in foreign income that is very easy to bear a reduction of 10-20 billion dinars, funds for these purposes can be found. A team that would completely eliminate tobacco imports by such production could eliminate tobacco imports, except for small quantities for special mixtures. Secondly, the exporting of tobacco to the country would place certain foreign resources. Therefore, this amount of 800 million dinars should not be considered a subsidy. It should be considered short-term, though unscamable, by investing in tobacco production, which will return all these assets to the budget very quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2724	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Nobody. ) If no one answers for a word anymore, I put this amendment to the vote. For a vote of 45, against 118, the abstentions were not voted 21, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Now we have three amendments with only amended amounts. The same item is proposed. I wanted to remind you once again and ask you, none of these amendments can be realistically accepted because those items are already fixed by the Budget Law. We have three amendments that suggest changing the same item, just something different amounts. The first amendment was submitted to article 2 by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that this amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2725	Ladies and gentlemen, my amendment refers to subsidies for pasteurised milk, where the estimated amount of 242 million dinars is replaced by 520 million dinars. Mr. Zechariah said for a little while that milk is sufficient on the market and even has a certain market surplus. However, whether he didn't know about this or perhaps he didn't know about the Minister of Agriculture, we currently have two types of pasteurized milk on the market. One kind that sells in PVC packaging that's cheaper, and another kind that's sold in a brick pack, or what some call a tetrapack, although I have to say it's a fairly incorrect name, which is more expensive for 5 dinars. Milkers as producers, milk processors and merchants resort to a particular trick, that the milk in PVC packaging, meaning bags, is sold at a price as if it were in a bric packaging. So, at a higher price of 5 dinars. By increasing subsidies, I believe that the irregularity would be avoided and that, by doing so, the rows for milk, where milk is sold at that price properly and in that package, even the lines would disappear. We all know that the largest number of milk users, these are our children who need milk in development. On the other hand, any stimulation of milk production and consumption, milk processing and consumption stimulates production. So, by stimulating livestock production, without which, for example, war production is worth nothing, because we will sell wheat and corn as market surpluses, or raw materials, and I see no reason why we should sell all the products in such a way and not sell them as finished products in the form of milk and meat processing. In particular, what the whole of Europe is now infected with general livestock diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2726	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote, MP Veroljub Arsic. For 46, against 110, abstained no one, voted 27, a total attendance, 183 MPs. I therefore find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that this amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2727	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this amendment to the Law on the Use of the Agricultural Budget in 2001 reads: Article 2 of the proposed law is changed by replacing under the second premium, regression and subsidy, point 5 of the grant for pasteurised milk, where the amount of 242 million is foreseen, with a amount of 500 million dinars. I've listed this proposal for two reasons. One reason is to stimulate milk production and dairy labour and capacity employment, and another reason is to make the price with an increase in premiums and subsidies, to make the price of milk smaller to the end-user. If we know that the biggest users of milk and milk products are the youngest and the oldest population of our society, to whom this article is necessary, then this is a human and social amendment, so that the final consumer can come as easily as possible and as cheaply as possible to the dairy product. As far as we're warning now, we shouldn't be giving these amendments, that the budget has already been adopted, that this item cannot be changed. However, here the amount is only doubled and I think it is a very small amount of money, and probably Minister Djelic can find and provide and therefore I ask the MPs to accept this amendment, so that our citizens can have pasteurized milk any cheaper matter. I wanted to speak to Mr. Agriculture Minister, that after your revolution and the crisis headquarters broke into our largest agricultural combination, one of the largest for the production of healthy food such, I was informed that this crisis headquarters, not only had it replaced the current leadership, but since last night, managed to make a decision that... (President: Are these parliamentary questions or what? )......................................................................................................... More than 50% of the workers are sent on an emergency vacation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2728	No, the parliamentary questions are at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2729	This isn't a question, it's about agrarians, because the agriculturals are a combined part of the Agrarian budget. (Lowers from the hall: Theme! ) This could interest Mr. Djelic, and it is known that Takovo is making cookies, so that he will wear an apron and keep mixing cookies, those he shares and presents, and that he has employed workers of the agricultural combination Such, they could have made the same cookies and made them. This is the result of the daunting DOS policy, both on all agrarians and on combinations dealing with the production of healthy and domestic food. What do you want? You want to destroy your domestic food production, so you can sell that company and then...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2730	Mr. Kragovic, could we go back to the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2731	Some food from the Netherlands, so, sir, let me just finish one more sentence so Mr. Minister can, well, normally French cookies to import, so here to share. Why would he buy cookies from Takova, because they're probably cheaper there. This is a disgrace to a serious government that thinks it employs our capacities and deals with agrarians in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2732	Since no one is answering for a word, I am putting MP Ljubomir Kragovic's amendment to the vote. For 42, against 116, abstained no one, voted 16, a total of 174 MPs present. I therefore find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that this amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2733	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled this amendment to Article 2 and I suggest that in Section II the amount of 242 million be increased to 484 million. This is because I believe that the increased amount I propose as a subsidy to the production of pasteurized milk will create conditions to fully meet the needs of our population and to make our country, in the near perspective, an exporter of this basic food supply. In particular, attention should be paid to milk processors and greater material resources should be allocated. In this case, there would be a decrease in milk prices, not an increase, nor could milk producers build prices, as they do at this time. That the agrarian situation is very difficult, I'll give you one example. There is Minister Mr. Vesenov, I do not know if he has been informed and knows that in Banatski Brestovac there is a group called Živica Jovanovic - Spanish, about 50 cows have been killed and the rest of them are in danger of dying from hunger. I therefore propose that Minister Veselinov go to Banatski Brestovac without delay and establish these facts and take all possible steps to resuscitate the situation in this agricultural branch, at least in this place, because it is necessary to help workers who are currently working on very difficult conditions, and the livestock is without food. I believe Minister Vesenov can find opportunities and reserves to help this populated town and this community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2734	Okay, the minister's not a vet, so he needs to go treat the cows. If no one's answering for a word anymore, we're going to vote. I am putting the amendment of MP Petar Jojic to the vote. For 44, against 113, there were no abstentions, no 22 votes, and a total of 179 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At point 2 of point 2 of the new sub-paragraphs 6 and 7 and point 3 of sub-paragraph 2 of the amendment was tabled by MP Zivanko Radovanchev. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that this amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2735	I have submitted two amendments to the proposal for a law on the use of the Agricultural Budget. Both relate to Article 2. As part of the first amendment, I have proposed from one debt, moral and any other obligation, according to profession and profession, and the company where I earn bread, which is based on livestock production, to try to convince, and I am sure in advance that I will not succeed, because it is a very solidly defined framework which, I think, no one in this parliamentary system, which belongs to the position or opposition, will be able to move half the dinar. We practice democracy in some way, we propose amendments, and I don't think there's a chance, no matter how much the amendments are based on life and so on. There's gonna be a theme. Namely, what it's about. For the cattle stock, we know that the hardest part is the heavy agricultural and total production anyway. I'd like some attention if you could, I've been listening to you for two days. The livestock complex is in an extremely difficult situation, especially in the year after the dry year, when we have the situation that the food price is extremely high and from such high food prices we have an extremely high price of production, both in this and in the milk production plan. On the other hand, we have the purchasing impotence of consumers, we have a situation where even such modest livestock production, we can't place ourselves within our domestic demand. The proposal is heading towards a position under point 6 of the Agrarian budget. - A subsidy to stimulate the export of meat and milk products, so that we can buy cattle at the price that guarantees the renewal of a new cycle in tow, so that we can subsidize meat of 30 dinars per kilogram and in quantity of 12,000 tonnes. We have another example, which is in the production of milk, or milk processing. Along with all thanks to both the Ministry and the Government for proposing a high participation in the premium position and the farming cattle regressions of 70% compared to the overall Agrarian budget. We are in one situation where we have preserved milk production, and on the other hand, such preserved milk production, the dairy have no one to place, sell because of the fall in purchasing power. On the third hand, we are not competitive in exports, actually because of a high level of price in the ransom, which we had to accept because of the high price of food. It also threatens the risk of a complex of meat and milk that the simple processing industry, because of its inability to place its products, comes into an insolvency zone, simply starts to buy neither meat nor milk, and to demoti more producers to start a new cycle in the next period of production. A lot of money, back a few years ago, on a conto premium, especially a milk premium, was invested in order to in the next three months, when we expect the maximum production of milk, when we expect the inability to buy the milkers out because of the supplies they have, one feedback reaction, and to cancel out the country's multi-annual investment, this republic, when it comes to milk production. Contrary to this proposal, we have another proposal, which, I think, will make it difficult. The other day I read that the federal government has prepared whether the Act on the Foreign Trade regime, where we boast that we fully liberalise imports, exports, etc. And what does that mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2736	I remind you of the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2737	... Yes, and this impoverished agriculture, which is in a difficult situation, we simply put it into a situation and expose it to the competition of global production with the state. Still, this agriculture, when it comes to exports, has no state and there are no incentive measures and we will come into one situation, that the most intense branch in agricultural production will be reduced to some modest proportions. We've invested back safely for 7-8 years... Mr. Radovanchev, you're in at seven minutes. This is a second warning in time. ....................................................................................................... Maybe about 500 million marks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2738	Mr. Seselj wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2739	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment makes sense because it treats one very difficult question, the question of adequate supply of artificial fertilizer to agricultural producers. Perhaps it would be even better if the government had already done something to remove customs duties on imports of artificial fertilisers at federal level, until our factories were able to produce sufficient quantities. Artificial fertilizer can't be misused. It only has one purpose. However, our problem here is much more complex. We have one bill of law that is literally based on the copying of previous laws, and the former government may at least have done on the plan of reforming agricultural production. There was the biggest lag. Of course, I confess myself to a place where there's a reason. And the new government has a problem as if it doesn't understand at all. The new government is in complete chaos. Her personnel policy is defeating. I thought the past agriculture minister Jovan Babovic was incapable of the job, but we now have far more incompetent Dragan Veselinov. It now turns out that Jovan Babovic is an expert pair of excellencies compared to Dragan Vesenov. You can't do anything in agriculture with Dragan Veselinov as a minister because he doesn't know anything about it. His uncle and father took out their time mustaches to the peasants, so he can never seem convincing to the peasants. Third, he's running away from this debate on the Agrarian budget because he doesn't care and you think he can accomplish something. He can't. It can only embarrass you further. But it's not the only place where you've missed your personnel policy. You see, you've appointed Nenad Chanka president of the Board of Directors of NIS. Suddenly Canka, who is tearing up the country to run the NIS, one of the most important public enterprises in the NIS. (Glass - theme. ) Or you have appointed Mijat Savić, Zoran Djindjic himself has appointed him, director of the Health Fund, and he has continued to take the steps of Nenad Djordjevic. It's already a big rebellion, already big speculation with drugs, that some producers are rebelling because they're privileged to another. Everything that's been a major problem has been going on before. So if you really want to fix the agricultural situation, get rid of Dragan Veselinov and find a capable minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2740	Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 38, against 115, there were no abstentions, there was no 26 vote, out of 179 members of parliament. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branislav Blazic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that this amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2741	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment that increases the means to improve livestock. I think the promotion of livestock today must be a priority in agriculture. Quantitative and qualitative promotion is particularly important when we see the situation in Western Europe. Crazy and silly cows, paws, footfoot, literally decimated the Western European stock fund. Yesterday, we read that they move on to crocodiles and Noahs, including them in the diet of their own population. England, France, the Netherlands, given the decimated stock fund, change the way they eat. However, in order for that to not happen to us, it would be wise to pay a little more attention to our livestock production. But not as the Minister of Agriculture does, that he gets donations from Americans in the amount of 50,000 tons modified or rather manipulated soybeans. The Americans say, which doesn't scare us, that they don't have the information that she's a health hazard, but it scares us that they don't have the data and that she's not a health hazard. To clean their warehouses and dump their waste here already in the first days of this government, with soy shotgun, and a danger that will only later show up, whether we will have mad and silly cows, foot-and-mouth and other diseases, we will see. But the Americans can't, and that time will show, bomb the whole world, do whatever they want around the world, and they won't have crazy cows, snots, paws, decimated their cattle fund tomorrow. Someone's probably gonna start thinking about it, too. When that happens to them so that when they go around Western Europe now to hunt, fish crocodiles and catch noves, maybe bats, then we'll have one completely different situation in the world. If we didn't wait for that, it might be wiser if we had already invested a little more money in our healthy livestock industry, which has been preserved healthy, and not to welcome what has been welcomed by Western Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2742	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 39, against 115, there were no abstentions, there was no 26 vote, out of 180 members of parliament. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that this amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? Here's a word from Parliament Group President Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2743	We cannot discuss this competently because the government has not informed us of its position on all amendments, and you are constantly telling us that the government's representative has not accepted. We're not interested in what he's accepted, and we're not interested in a government official. We're interested in when she was a government meeting, when every amendment was on the agenda and what the government's opinion was. We had to get it in writing for each amendment, and we only got it for a few amendments. As a result, this law cannot be passed either, and the Budget Law is not regularly adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2744	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 40, against 122 abstentions, there was no vote of 19, out of 181 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that this amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2745	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are discussing a very important law, a law that was first in a very similar form in front of MPs a few years ago, and I see that the new government has been able to rewrite it and that only its figures are adapted to one of its planned budgets for this year. However, the linear increase in figures compared to last year was not allowed to enter into this law, which is why in the meantime some relations in Europe, especially which oblige us to discuss with much more concern this law and what is inescapably waiting for us this year. We have two types of enemies at our borders -- one is the NATO Pact, and the other are cattle diseases. We've been lucky so far, as an undeveloped country and as a blocked country, we've been prevented from developing, but it's been some sort of an entry dam that plagues other parts of the modern world, which has let us out of his community for a while. We can act irresponsiblely now, we can talk about anything now, but pictures of burned cattle, sheep, which are constantly broadcast to us by world agencies from the most developed countries, should be a warning. We cannot remain an oasis that will be completely preserved from what threatens far richer states than we do. So isn't it simpler to invest more money in protection than to give after that everything we have in restoring the livestock fund, or God forbid, treating citizens who might get sick until we take measures? I tried to convince you that part of the funds, one reserve that exists in the budget, move to protection from what our head is going to be, already somewhere in May of the month. I suggested that you take the 500 million from Covic's body, he doesn't need anything, he can't have anything in his hands. And it's not true that all the crazy cows ran into DOS. There's a reason to save the cattle stock. I assure you, you can behave however you want. There was rigorous control, and thank God we didn't eat infected meat, most likely until the DOS came to power. The children would be grateful if you would stop them from eating that meat while you're in power. You won't be in power for long, but the consequences could be terrible. So I recommend, in the five minutes you've given me, that you take yourself seriously, to train a service that will try to protect the stock fund, so that we can have a state. A people who don't have their own food, that people don't have a country. I'm not very convinced that you're capable of providing so much money to the citizens that they can have their own food and buy it. We're now coming up with some differences that so far couldn't even be imagined, we now say, we have extra milk in stores. But it's not an increase in production at all, it's just milk that citizens can't buy anymore because prices went dizzy in the sky. In order for my dear DOS men to have anything to milk, it must be healthy and must be fed, and someone must at least teach you some work. Here, ever since you sat on the back of this country, I haven't seen one job, except for the story of a pay phone, you can do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2747	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to the floor as President of the Parliament's Group, not because of the science that the SRS exposes us to, but because of the obligation to deny, as a representative of the authorities, all the truths that were previously told. The Ministry of Agriculture had special attention within the budget and the resources that our government has. These funds are, as in other cases, less than our wishes, but they are the maximum we could have had at the moment. I will remind my predecessor that the government, in which his party played a dominant role last year, allocated seven times less funds to the same purposes, and that the funds were spent, compared to what we represent to you today, eight times less. That best speaks of a relationship to the truth. The villagers themselves know how good your authority was. Of course we're obliged to make an account in front of them, and that's what we do. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not been able to do much to repair the catastrophic consequences that emerged in the past seven weeks after the ten-year government of Slobodan Milosevic. However, we did the only thing we could - we removed taxes from the fertilizer, from the seeds for reproduction, from the fruit material, from the pesticides and from the agricultural machinery. We took off, Mr. Nikolic, taxes, and your government introduced them on January 1, 1999, at a rate of 9%, plus 3% of federal taxes, plus 3% of the rail tax, plus 3% of the Belgrade tax. Only in Belgrade's territory, the tax on this basis has been paid at 18%. We can also talk about the tractors your government bought, so let's compare how much you paid for the tractor, and how much you bought yourself official cars, since you said you didn't do it before.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2748	It's good when you, Mr. Jovanovic, are sitting in an O.R., always giving us a chance to get a replica, because you never know how to interpret a previous speaker. It's probably due to low concentration. And the easiest thing to do is to come out here and say, "You didn't do it," as if we didn't know we weren't doing it, as if we hadn't told you more than once from this pay phone. Well, of course, we weren't good enough. If we were good enough, people like you would never beat us. It's a nice story of yours. I called you five or six days ago and asked - which of you in your life did serious work, on which of you depended on the salary of at least 500 workers? What are you talking to me about? About production? Which one of you knows what production is? How many years of work experience do you have somewhere where you earn a salary by working, sweating, if one of you made a child a sledgehammer for winter, to know that there's something behind him that he did. Mr Jovanovic, the Agricultural Budget, the implementation of the Agricultural Budget for the past year, for the first postwar year, says that the Agrarian budget was given more than 4.3%. The plan that you're showing us here now tells us that for the Agrarian budget you're spending 3.8% of the budget. You don't need any more stories. There's something much more important to you now than the Agrarian budget. We didn't find it in the budget debate - what's more important to you? You kept saying that agriculture was destroyed, that the peasant was humiliated, miserable and exploited, cheap food prices, you fed the cities for free. What's more important now than peasants, now, to this changed government, what's more important than taking away a bigger budget cake? The peasant should know, again on his back, on a much worse scale, a much more drastic climb now. You're talking about getting rid of customs, excise duties and taxes - so you've had to do it under the pressure of our amendments. Now I'm very interested -- all that you've taken down in the budget, how a very high minister or his deputy doesn't come out, to say -- what is now the amount of the budget. Maybe now the Agrarian budget is 4% of the budget, the total budget, but no one here adopts when we adopt the budget, no one adopts that now the budget is 10-12 billion less than the original proposal. When the government came out with the amendment, Zoran Djindjic says whenever you want to take something off, say which side you add, whenever you want to add, say who you take off to. You skim 10% of the budget with one amendment and don't tell us who's going to be denied now, or maybe the minister was hiding those 12 billion dinars of his own reserves in the budget, so he says, if they press us with the amendments, we're going to give in 10-12 billion, I thought we'd steal that anyway, that nobody knows what he's kidnapping for. That's what the numbers say, that's what the debate says. I'd like my life to be denied, but I'm convinced there's a great famine waiting for us thanks to you, dear gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2749	Mr. Ivkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2750	If this government were an important budget, then the agriculture minister would sit here and listen to the MPs, as the minister of health is sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia and the deputy finance minister. Obviously, however, the Agrarian budget does not matter to him. I would only ask the president of the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia not to give false information. The DOS has been in power in Serbia for five days and let Serbian citizens think about what happened within six months of DOS authorities, because in five days it is exactly six months, and what has happened since those promises. If we're talking about the budget, definitely because of some of the statements I heard on TV, and also here, let's clear up a little bit about what it was and what the budget was last year and what it was all about and how big it was this year. Last year, the budget was 32 billion dinars. In addition to that budget, special bills were passed by laws in this National Assembly, primarily related to the reconstruction and reconstruction of a country of 20 billion dinars. I also said yesterday that the 20 billion dinars this nation had to spend on reconstruction, opening up a place to hire workers whose factories were destroyed and, unfortunately, the government that was in power at the time did not meet social benefits, because it had to reconstruct the country, because it was probably the aggressor that was the goal of spending money on reconstruction, not social giving. That's why we failed as a government, and that's where we went to a good school and learned. When it's taken to, then, that 20 billion this year shouldn't be the budget, because we've restored and reconstructed the country. There's 32 billion left. The plan is 127 and how much has the budget been increased? Almost three and a half times the budget has been increased. People are interested in it, because the people will feel it through the Transport Tax Act. That's also the problem with knowing that this budget is unwarrantedly high. I'd ask that we really leave a political story here and that we're really talking about a subject that's on the agenda, because I could talk about manipulations, too. The story comes to us all day that a group has gathered in the DOS' extreme wing, engaged criminals, and today they are about to kidnap President Milosevic. If that's what they're gonna do, we're waiting for them, and if they don't, it's good for the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2751	Mr Bogdanovic, chairman of the Finance Committee, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2752	I don't normally speak this way, but since we called ourselves yesterday about schools, school estates, school lacks, and I see that today is the school issue again. I understand these things they don't have schools so they don't know how to count, but I'm surprised by those who have schools so they can, like my predecessor. First, the percentage for the Agrarian budget that has been allocated is clear and those who have schools know how to calculate. So it's less drastic, because when the numbers are compared, it's all clear. Furthermore, you can no longer speak in this way when it comes to this budget, because Mr Jovanovic said nicely that the number is enormously isolated and that number was absolutely possible at this time. What else is interesting? Don't let them worry about how the budget will be filled. He'll fill up because he won't steal. It won't be stolen the way it was done through hidden funds, through hidden funds, through supposed construction of the country, through everything you're talking about. It wasn't, 90% of what you were talking about didn't exist. That money was spent some other way. Therefore, you will be amazed yourself when you see that the money provided for this budget is real to this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2753	The president of the Agriculture Committee spoke nicely. He won't steal. That's nice. Did Dragan Veselinov swear not to steal? Where? In that religious cult of yours? Did Nebojsa Covic swear not to steal? The fox swore she wouldn't steal the chickens. That's nice. How is it that Zoran Djindjic has appointed a new director of the Health Fund without the knowledge of the Health Minister, without the consent of the DOS, etc? Where the biggest money was, where Nenad Djordjevic was, it's pizzling, and there's empty promises being made. What did you prove not to steal? There are also those here in this assembly that you picked up as waste from other parties. I'll only tell you one. Aleksandar Stefanovic was once the general secretary of the Serbian Radical Party. Smart guy, right? Let's see how smart he is. He took two apartments from the Federal Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2754	Mr. Seselj, as a radical, he took it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2755	We replaced him for that, and then Alexander Vukic came to his place.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2756	Let's get back to the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2757	We were the first ones to insist on returning the apartments and he had to pay them both back. One in Block 70 in New Belgrade and the other in Vrakar. Then in 1997, he made a statement to reporters that he had torn down Dražina's monument, so he tried to fly something around the kiosk, he was kicked out of the party, and now here he is in Batic's party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2758	Mr. Seselj, I warn you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2759	All that other party's waste has come to light here. See how many former socialists are, see how many juries have transferred from October 5th to DOS ranks. Don't make empty promises.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2760	Mr. Seselj, for the second time I warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2761	The ones who are most prone to stealing. Let the Minister of Health say did he agree to appoint the new Director of the Health Fund? How can he do that at all? If he has the courage to come out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2762	Mr. Seselj, I take your word. Please leave the pay phone. Mr. Ivkovic by replica earlier, then Minister Mr. Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2763	Since this speaker has been told that mathematics is unknown, let me just say the current mathematics for farmers. Today, the seed material pays 200 marks, and in September 2000 there were 100 marks. It's just so much about math. As for the spending of funds from the country's reconstruction and reconstruction programmes, I'm telling you that while you're in power, you won't be able to paint everything that we've built in the country's reconstruction, and as far as hiding about budgets, all I know is that all those positions that have been defined, are defined on the basis of legal decisions, based on the boards that have controlled the work. If there were mistakes, please say so, but I know that you planned 19,100,000 dinars in the budget, under the control of the Finance Minister 5,200,000 dinars, Minister of Mining and Energy 4,000,000,000, Minister of Transport and Communications 7,000,000 and 3,000,000 million more with a minister. A total of 19,100,000 dinars for the funds you just named to exist. There is no legal decision, nor is there any government decision. The criteria for the distribution of these funds absolutely do not exist. That's why we, as socialists, have suggested to you -- people, you're taxing just because there's no production to make money. Transfer that money to the Serbian Development Fund. The chairman of the Administrative Board of the Serbian Development Fund is the Prime Minister. Serbia's development typhoon is a legal organ. It can initiate the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, it can control the technological and productive justification of the programme. Start the economy, then the taxes will be much smaller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2764	He has the word Minister Joksimovic. He gave up. ) If no one is answering for a word anymore, I am voting on the amendment of Tomislav Nikolic. For 50, against 117 abstentions, there was no vote of 20, a total of 187 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that this amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2765	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment asking for a maltene double increase in the Agrarian budget, from 800 million to a billion. I gave an explanation for this request in the amendment, and you heard my predecessor, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. For the sake of the public, I'm obliged to give an additional explanation. As the representative of the Department of Agriculture played with mathematics here, here's an enigma for small mathematicians. Last year's budget -- 30 billion, the Agrarian budget -- a billion and a half. That's almost 5%. This year's budget is 130 billion, and the Agrarian budget is five. The absolute amount is the increase. Well done, DOS. But it's nominally one and more percent smaller. That's the way to worry about agriculture. The proposal to double the amount stems from an insufficient budget amount for this purpose on the one hand, and on the other hand the urgent need for animal health, to prevent what is already present in the environment and also in Europe. It is fortunate that under the conditions of sanctions our bulls did not associate with English mad cows. But as much as tomorrow, under DOS authority, I'm no longer convinced of that. Certain bovine diseases: swine fever, trihinosis, poultry diseases, rabies, are already present with us. The result is, among other things, due to poor and under-quality livestock food. Because of all of this, there's a decimation of the cattle stock, which causes a lack of permanent manure. By not throwing stale fertilizer into the oranic fields, we're not worth any water systems. It's the elemental thing that Minister Vesenov doesn't know, and he's constantly pushing public issues with irrigation. Dear counterpart Zaharija Trnavčević, whom I personally respect and respect, otherwise known as the "Sela" journalist and the wider, expressed his infidelity in the connection of stale manure with irrigation. It is obvious that here, both Minister Veselinov and Mr. Zechariah, there is no knowledge of the estate. But at this historic session, we had the opportunity to make Mr. Zechariah so angry with Mr. Veselinov, and Mr. Petar Jojic sent him to Banatski Brestovac and he went away. He's not interested in discussing the Agrarian budget. What's DOS's interest in you at all? You took the budget, and I said that in the budget items are only satisfying individual ambitions. We've got an example of Covic, we've got a Veselinov now, so we can do it in a row. Why does the minister keep pushing for irrigation? Because of the Merhav Group of Israel. The president of the corporation, Mr. Joseph Mayman, visited the government, visited the competent ministry. Otherwise, it's an investment concept. He made a deal with Veselinov, I don't know if he's still signed, God forbid he hasn't. Normally, a commission for Veselinov. They discussed in the government the possibility of investing funds in the revitalisation and construction of an irigation system at 200 ha in Vojvodina, in the narrow part of Serbia. That's why Vesenov keeps mentioning irrigation. He has no idea about the cycle of agriculture. Besides, he's a professor at the Faculty of Politics, but through this bribe he's about to receive, he's pushing a firm that's supposed to be doing some work on irigation systems. Gentlemen, the Merhav Group of Israel is engaged in petrochemical activity. They will enter Serbia, something will interfere with the irigation systems, and then they will enter Pancevo. And that's where the commission will be given to Vesenov. They enter and take Petrochemy in Pancheva. Here's why Veselinov's talking about this. This is why Vesenov can't be the Minister of Agriculture, because he doesn't know anything about it. This is obvious evidence that this agrarian budget serves only for individual satisfaction, through certain fees in the budget or on the side.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2766	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? (Niko) If no one ever answers for a word again, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 45, against 120, with no abstentions, no 9 voted, a total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that this amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2767	I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 paragraph 3. - professional agricultural services, for which 60 million dinars have been allocated by this proposal. My amendment increases this amount to 120 million dinars. In the light of this attitude, which was given by the legislator, it reads - "The work of professional services is carried out mainly on the holdings of farmers, on which land fertility control is carried out, the introduction of new varieties, the application of new agrotechnical measures, demonstrations, as well as monitoring of total plant and livestock production. This job is carried out by the Institute for the Application of Science in Agriculture, 39 regional agricultural services and 504 basic agricultural professional services." This argument shows that one serious project, a serious service, a large number of perpetrators, and that adequate funds should be allocated for these purposes. In view of the fact that these services do business on private-owned individual holdings, if it is taken into account that over 85% of the farmland is privately owned and over 90% of the livestock stock is also owned, then I believe that this amendment is quite correct and that this amount should be increased. Zechariah Tranvcevic confirmed this earlier, saying very few of these professional consultations with farmers were held during the previous winter, and means there is a reason to improve this work. In the end, I would just like to say that the budget adopted yesterday is irregular because the amount adopted corresponds to the original proposal. Let me remind you, during the session the day before yesterday, there was an amendment by the government, with some items in this proposal being amended, primarily in the laws on excise duties and sales taxes, and now the deficit has been increased budgetally by an additional 10-15 billion dinars. So that amount that was adopted as a budget doesn't correspond to the new state of affairs, so the deficit is significantly, significantly higher.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2768	Since no one is answering for a word, I am putting the amendment of the MPs to the vote. For 43, against 111, abstained no one, voted 18, a total of 172 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. There's a lot of people who haven't voted, so I'd like the service to take a look at some cards in the O.R. again. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that this amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2769	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I submitted an amendment to the draft law on the use of the Agricultural Budget in 2001. Since I already talked yesterday about the complete Agrarian budget and the increase, today I have only submitted to Article 2 under III, where other obligations are laid down by law, which is point 7. - the measures and excise duties in agriculture, the estimated amount of 15 million dinars. That, if you look at it, is the 7th point, where it's really the minimum amount in the entire Agrarian budget, and it's exactly scheduled for this point. It is necessary to increase funds of 15 million, at least to 50 million dinars, and above all because, in accordance with the Agricultural Budget, funds are provided in accordance with the Agriculture Quality Control Act, alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages and plant protection products, and above all to analyse the quality of agricultural food products, as well as the reproductive material used in agricultural production. For these huge deals, the amount proposed by this law is absolutely insufficient. That's why I think the amount I suggested is a much better solution. Which is why we need to increase the proposed funds. I'll try to explain it to you. First of all, it is necessary because we need to carry out a detailed and serious analysis of the quality of agricultural food products, and above all we know that during NATO aggression, and we have been exposed to bombings, only damage in the ecosystem is about four billion and 250 million dollars. Forbidden funds have been used, such as ammunition with impoverished uranium, and the time of land contamination is very long, so permanent and enhanced control of agricultural products is necessary in order to protect the health of the population. Through humanitarian aid, we get everything and everything. Quality control of food aid is necessary, both plant and animal origin. We often find life-saving foods that, according to our standards, are unsuitable for human consumption. What they in the West would have to destroy above all, often comes to us as humanitarian aid, because in the West it's so much cheaper. In order not to put part of the population at risk, we must also strengthen the control measures. The DOS's new taxes and excise duties can only expect further poverty for much of the population. They will be forced to receive humanitarian aid, so this may be a reason to invest more funds in protection and control than is proposed. The special story is fruity and seedy material, all that has not been sufficiently examined in the donor country, is being touched precisely by countries affected by the economic crisis. These countries, and where our Serbia belongs, serve as experimental polygons. We must not allow the lack of countries to cause us to suffer terrible consequences for years. In the end, the production of quality and healthy food is a chance for us, anyway. Today in the West we are not able to sell cars, TVs, computers, but healthy food we can. At the time of the most severe sanctions, the famous cloudy cherries, raspberries and strawberries were exported. Whoever brings significant foreign exchange funds can simultaneously address the problem of surplus labour, which would be engaged in agricultural production. So, we must do everything to protect the local population first and foremost, and by making more resources, we will contribute to the greater production of healthy food, as our great development opportunity. That's why I'm asking for the measures and actions in agriculture, the estimated amount of 15 million to be increased to 50 million dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2770	Since no one is answering for a word, I am putting MP Goran Cvetanovic's amendment to the vote. For 39, against 116, a abstention, no one voted 17, a total of 172 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On 2nd point III, sub-point 5 and new sub-paragraph 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture proposed that this amendment be rejected and the representative of the Government did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2771	In Article 2 of the proposed law, paragraph III, which reads - other obligations laid down by law, in point 5, the regulation of agricultural land - the estimated amount of 40 million dinars is changed to 100 million dinars. The agricultural land planning programme includes investment in work, comassation, construction of a system for deforestation and irrigation, conversion of unprocessable land, improvement of the quality of existing land surfaces, melioration of land surfaces in mountainous and mountainous areas, biological recreation and control of fertility, etc. For such a large programme, the proposed funds are absolutely insufficient. I therefore consider that the amount I have proposed is the lower limit necessary to carry out the above-mentioned tasks. In particular, larger means are needed to extract in hill-mounted areas, to build a terrace for fruit plantations. I'd like to ask your attention, because this is the first time the D.O.S. and S.R.S. MP has agreed on anything. The destruction of the Serbian village and agriculture began Tito in 1948, which is exactly 53 years ago, when it also began to deal with Zaharija Trnavcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2772	Replica, Mr. Trnavcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2773	I don't want to defend myself, but I have to warn everyone, including Mr. Slobodan Janjic, that I'm just a journalist for 53 years, I've been an observer, what's been going on in this country and in the country, especially in the country. About whose side I was, whether I supported it or criticized it, there are written clues, there are shows, there's someone's memory. I'm going to find out about those who didn't know, write those texts about Zivojka - Radojko, Taska Nacic and Butkovic, who I laughed at with powerful stupid owners, and I keep doing it, and I defended the peasants, especially the honest one. Therefore, do not attribute it to me, as one of the radical MPs earlier said, just Slobodan Janjic, that I am responsible for reducing the livestock fund, etc. That Mr. Guduric said, an MP -- these are people who have no arguments, but talk like that, not to say another word -- that it's my fault, walking around Serbia, spreading the disease of mad cows. They don't know at all - the disease of mad oxen is spreading.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2774	Where did you identify yourself? (The President speaks to Vojislav Seselj, who asks for a word. It's not like the whole parliamentary group... I understand... A, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2775	I've called as head of the parliamentary group and I'm surprised, Mr. President, that you're making a problem about it... And I have the right to speak for this amendment. I'm talking now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2776	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2777	Don't disturb the president while I speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2778	You didn't mention anything. (The speaker was approached by the MP, Stevan Guduric). We'll see what it is. You didn't even mention it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2779	Mr. Martian, I've been extremely correct to you, I didn't want to do it before, and now I'm going to call you as a witness when I was talking about Alexander Stefanovic, and you've been kicking him out of that apartment as the president of the municipality, which is why we've replaced him from the post of secretary-general. Is it true?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2780	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2781	Here, you're my witness. I didn't want to talk much. I came out to confirm something of what the MP of the people, Zechariah Trnavcevic, said. One thing he's right about, I'm his witness. In person, Joseph Broz Tito complained that Zechariah Trnavčević attacked him, attacked him too much. Here, we can check it out, and John's lucky is still alive, and in front of her, he complained about Zechariah Trnavcevic attacking him, and that it was already unbearable for him, that his leg was hurting him from the way Zechariah attacked him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2782	Please, in order for me to know and know what is and what is being answered for, I still need to hear it. You're the one who picked up the phone for what? (The President addresses the MP, Stevan Guduric. Mr. Guduric? Give up? Okay, he gave up. Let's hear from each other a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2783	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Serbian Government, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we would like to be able to stay with you in this room and work honestly, wanting to show you that certain amendments submitted by SPS MPs have value and would affect the revision of the law on the agenda. However, what I have said, apparently it is true, has been reported to us by our people, who are at the bottom gate of Užička Street, that there is where President Slobodan Milosevic is, already 6 vehicles with people dressed in black uniforms, under full arms, where there is an ambulance, and we SPS MPs are going there. Thank you very much. (SPS emissaries leaving the O.R. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2784	Quiet, please. I am obliged, not because of the MPs here, but because of those who are following the television broadcast, please listen to ourselves, to say that what Mr. Ivkovic said, it is quite inappropriate for the assembly pay phone, simply because of the public who listens and delivers news, which has neither been checked nor we from the gym can verify it, it is inappropriate and can indeed produce certain reactions in public that are not good, no matter what it is. It's been used for the second time in two months, this pay phone that can produce public harassment and can lead to more serious consequences. It's just that what he said isn't information, it's his personal opinion. I pray to all those who listen to this and understand it, regardless of what this news can do to make some happy and some to be sad. I ask you to return to our job for which citizens have chosen us, to pass laws and to declare an amendment that has been submitted to Member of the 2nd Parliament, Slobodan Janjic. For 21, against 124 abstentions, there was no vote of 15, and a total of 160 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture submitted an amendment to Article 6 of the same text. The Prime Minister agreed to this amendment at the meetings of the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agriculture. Since the Prime Minister has accepted this amendment, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular and the decision on amendments, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. I put the draft law on the use of the Agricultural Budget in 2001 as a whole. For 133, there were no abstentions against five, five out of 143 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft law on the use of the Agricultural Budget in 2001. We're going to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for an ACCIAS Law Is there any suggestion that I should take a break? No, I don't. ) You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Natasa Jovanovic, Stevan Kesejić, Milutin Salesovic, Borislav Pelevic, Slobodan Janjic, Goran Cvetanović, Dragoljub Stamenković, Milos Lukić, Veroljub Arsić, Vitomir Plužarevic, Dragan Jojic, Petar Jojic, Gordana Pop - Lazić, Dragan Tomić and Slobodan Tomović, Živodarka Dacin, Lazar Marjanski, Zoran D. Nikolić, Momir Radoičić, Ljubomir Kragović, Zoran Radovanović, Rajko Baralić, Miroljub Veljković, Tomislav Nikolic, Dragan Todorović, Vladimir Garčević. The MP, Zivodarka Dacin, informed the National Assembly that he was withdrawing all amendments to the bill. You have received amendments from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Government's opinion on individual amendments. You've received reports from the Finance Committee. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I'm putting on a vote for the Excise Act in principle. For 135, there were no abstentions against five, four of the 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2785	I am really amazed that the Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Article 2 defines products which are subject to excise duty. Among other things, Article 2 writes, refreshing soft drinks. I suggested that instead of item 5 in point 2 stand - soda-free drinks. I call on the finance minister to tell me in which parallel legislation is being consulted, and it is likely that when he made this proposal of the excise law, parallel legislation from other countries, the excise duty is on natural juices. If he gives me such an example in parallel legislation, I'll really believe he did something else in Paris and didn't mix cookies. You must know, gentlemen of the DOS, and you, Mr. Minister, that by introducing this excise on natural juices, 100% natural juices, you will not only burden those juices, but you will greatly destimulate fruit production. I urge you to think about it a little bit and set an example here, where, in which country the excise duty is 100% natural juice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2786	Is anyone answering for a word? There's a word, Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2787	Like everywhere in the world, even in Serbia, natural juices will not be burdened. See Article 13. The answer is they won't be loaded, see Article 13. (Miroljub Veljkovic, from the post: - I am not satisfied with the answer at all. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2788	There's nothing to be content or dissatisfied with. So if no one ever answers for a word again, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 117 abstentions, 19 of the 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by the representatives of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2789	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill on excise duties and the tenacity of the SRS group has already brought effects, because the excise on oil and gasoline has fallen from 16 to 10 dinars. I am counting on the insistence on further amendments to make the Minister or Government accept any other amendment, all in order to protect the end-user, i.e. consumer. However, as far as we protect them, end-users and consumers, I have to tell you one story, that since November of the month oil and gasoline, which went across Montenegro to Kosovo and Metohija, via Rožaj, and since the customs checkpoints were set, KFOR has started charging 10,000 marks per oil tank and 13,800 marks per gas tank. They cross through Serbia and on the road to Kosovo and Metohija, at a point called Mehov kršt, smugglers pay the racket, 5,000 oil marks and 7,000 gas marks, per tank, and after this racketeering they go freely to Kosovo and Metohija. The main dealer for Kosovo is Prizrenac Aslan Djeladin, who in co-operation with Thaci and the occupiers even during Kushneraform this company and continues to distribute oil and oil derivatives in Kosovo and Metohija. Companies transporting gasoline and oil are mainly from Montenegro, such as the Si-factor, the Inex-petrol and others, with one note, gentlemen MPs, that the smallest amount of oil that can be purchased in the Bar is one million liters, oil or gasoline. How's this oil racketing going? The oil racketeering is done by taking the money without any receipts from the smugglers and delivering it to Mr. Djindjic or his deputy and to Mr. Vice President of the Federal Government, Mr. Labus. You don't need to bother gentlemen, with a little effort and the arrival of Serbia-Montenegro border crossings, you can check it out. If we take one simple bill, one tank has 30,000 liters, the planned excise duty is scheduled for our importer to pay 480,000 dinars for the same tank, 20% tax, another 210,000 dinars. All this burdens 690,000 dinars, 690,000 dinars with 30 dinars is 23,000 marks. However, he is much less racketeering the transfer of gasoline and oil to Kosovo and Metohija. To racquetise much less, it is also evidence that smugglers do not go through Rozaj anymore, but enter Serbia and through Mech's junk enter Kosovo. The question arises - why do Mr. Djindjic and Mr. Labus charge twice as much as the gentleman of the occupation? If they could take 10,000 and 13,800 per tanker, why would he allow that traffic of five and seven thousand marks? And in this way it allows for an illegal smuggling at the expense of Serbian citizens, where the corresponding people are abnormally rich. Or it is a deal from Mr Djindjic with the Shiptars that allows them to supply oil and oil products, because how else do they understand his recommendation to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija that they go to the upcoming elections, which they will organise. The Excise Act, which was proposed, envisioned the price of gasoline over 50 dinars per litre. But the opposition's amendments forced the government to cut the excise duty, so it now stands at 10 dinars, but the price will continue to be increased. So I suggest you accept this amendment, which concerns the reduction of excise duties on these products.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2790	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? He's not answering. ) For 17, against 109 abstentions, there was no vote 26, a total of 152. I find this amendment not accepted. National MP Borislav Pelevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. The applicant for the amendment is justifiably absent, does anyone else want to take the floor? There's a word, Mr. Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2791	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to be in Article 2. The Excise Act of Points 5, 6 and 7 of Delete came from the need to protect the widest layers of the population, because this is about three products that are very often in use, and it seems to me that the item that would be achieved with this excise duty is not so significant. We must be aware that our citizens will be further taxed by those regulations that follow the following days, by property tax, etc. This is about refreshing non-alcoholic drinks, coffee and salt for food. These are products that are very common in use, not to repeat that even they are covered by the excise juices of natural fruit, then coffee and salt. The proposal is to exempt these three products from the obligation to pay excise duty and thus protect the standard of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2792	If no one is answering for a word anymore, I would like to put to the vote the amendments of MP Borislav Pelevic, please make your statement. For 18, against 115, a abstentioned one, was not voted 17, a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this amendment. National MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic, Zoran Radovanovic, Rajko Baralic and Petar Jojic submitted the 2nd amendment. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2793	It's already been said that you should lift the excise on juice, and I'm just saying to the finance minister, the finance minister, you forgot to tax one more thing, it's heard in the hallway, some of the DOS say, suggest a casserole for roasting brandy to the peasants. You've forgotten that, but when you're doing some corrections and bring it in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2 of Article 1 of the Excise Act. I think it's unfounded to tax the salt, and we all know that it's in wide use, and that a lot of people will be burdened with paying taxes, and that's why I suggested that kitchen salt and other salt, which is widely used, be released from excise duty.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2795	If no one ever answers my word again, I'll put the amendment to the vote. For 20, against 114, no one abstained, 19 voted, a total of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by the Prime Minister at the Committee's session. (Lazar Marjanski: I give up.) I gave up. Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. The amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by the Prime Minister at the Committee's session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2796	Mr. Minister, you've been deluding the Parliament and the public a little while ago. Article 3 does not say that juices are 100% fruit-based. I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, where in the second position it is said: "to products purchased from sellers from the territory of the Republic of Montenegro the excise duty is not calculated and does not pay if paid in that republic". The only thing that looks like our finance minister is not known is that Montenegro is today the largest smuggling centre in Europe. With the proposed solution that excise duty is not charged if it is already charged and charged in Montenegro, we will be in a position to be flooded with excise goods from Montenegro, and our budget will not have any effect. Clearly, it is clear that all certificates of paid excise duty will be falsified. How do you plan to stop oil from Montenegro? Milo Djukanovic will give you confirmation that he paid for the excise? What effect does our budget have? When Milo Djukanovic starts paying his commitments to the federal budget, then I agree that this provision remains. When the federal state begins to introduce 100% in its territory, then I agree that this provision remains. Until then, it means all goods charged with excise duty in Serbia should be charged at the border between Serbia and Montenegro, otherwise, be absolutely sure, we will be flooded with oil, cigarettes and other excise goods. The finance minister, the Italian finance minister, knows what Milo Djukanovic is doing, and our finance minister doesn't seem to know.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2797	If no one ever answers for a word after this amendment, I am putting MP Veljkovic's amendment to the vote. For 19, against 113, one abstention did not vote 20, a total of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. Since the amendment of the Government has been adopted by the Finance Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2798	I would just like to add as far as the text is concerned - after Article 4, the attitude that reads is added, etc. Additional consultations have shown that, for environmental and other reasons, it would be appropriate not to actually pay excise duties on these products, but the technique is now that this is the composition of the law and at the next regular session we will propose an amendment to abolish the excise duty on these oils, motor oils and oil. Just as much as information.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2799	National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 9th amendment. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant want a word? He's not here. Does anyone else want a word? (No) I'm putting the amendment to the vote. The vote was 17 against 121, no one abstained, no vote was taken by 16, a total of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th amendment were submitted by MPs Dragan Tomic and Slobodan Tomovic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. The applicants are not here. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 122, no one abstained, no voted 16, a total of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2800	Ladies and gentlemen, on Article 9, with the given position 2, for diesel fuel used in agriculture, I suggest that the excise duty rate be lifted because of the situation in agriculture and for everything that burdens agriculture. I believe that the elimination of these 8.7 dinars per litre would improve the desire and will of agricultural producers to imitate those unsupervised surfaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2801	If no one ever answers for a word again, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of 12, a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Pelevic submitted to the 9th amendment. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does anyone want a word? He doesn't want to. ) If no one answers for a word anymore, I put this amendment to the vote. For 19, contrary to 118, the abstentions are gone, there was no vote of 14, a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milos Lukic submitted to the 9th amendment. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2802	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment, which I have submitted to article 9 of the Excise Act, is so specific that it is probably the only amendment that proposes to increase excise rates on certain products, and that is: in Article 9(1) point 4. - instead of 2.70 dinars, it should cost 16.50 dinars. I'm here to explain one thing. In fact, the government gave its amendment at the last minute, so that we changes to the government when we came to the O.R. and we didn't have time to react, because they're components of the bill, otherwise these amounts would be something different. However, the bottom line is this: the proposal for this amendment should take one significant step towards introducing order and order in oil trade and oil derivatives. We've heard a lot of complaints and a lot of complaints about how oil and oil derivatives are traded and how huge money is poured into some pockets, not the state register. In fact, this amendment aims to equate, according to excise duty, products that are similar to oil derivatives, such as gasoline and oil, which are: jet fuel, liquid oil gas and petroleum. What was the situation so far, these products were burdened with significantly lower excise duty, so many of those who were legally acting and paying the state for all the duties, these products sold as surrogates of gasoline and oil. In this way the most damaged customers, end consumers, have received unquality goods, and in particular the state has been damaged. In some ways we're trying, I'm not saying this on my own personal behalf, I'm saying this on behalf of many oil and oil companies, many people who do this job fairly and who want to do it in a legal way and in their gas stations, if this amendment was adopted, then a considerable amount of funds would be added to the budget that were practically not planned, and would prevent smuggling from these derivatives. We would also have achieved that in this way the government would lose one of the essential reasons, which it stated when it brought in that famous, illegal and unconstitutional, banning the import of petroleum products. By equating these duties, there would be no interest in these oil derivatives being imported, nor in doing with them what has been done so far, and the same goes for the area of production. Namely, when these derivatives are produced in domestic refineries, they are also less burdened. It also leaves the possibility of doing what is done with them, or the state being damaged. An attempt to find justice was found in the fact that the artificially increased production price of these derivatives in the refinery. That's absolutely not true. It's not true that, say, oil is produced by such technology that it's more expensive for about a dozen dinars than for the production of gasoline. In fact, there is a possibility that the state may be transposing its resources into the oil industry of Serbia, which is still wrong, and is not in the interests of both this country and the public revenues that these derivatives need to achieve. As far as we know, a vast portion of the budget should be filled from these sources, oil and oil derivatives. We are talking to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Energy, in fact, on the trail of one solution, I think that constant contacts between oil traffickers and the corresponding government's resistors will still come up with a solution, so that the government is withdrawing its unconstitutional Transport Prohibition Regulation and introducing order in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2804	You, Mr. President, were just asked not to bring alarming news from this pay phone. By checking in on you and checking out Branislav Ivkovic, I found out, I convinced myself that the news was not alarming. Seven SUVs, full of teeth to armed men in black uniforms, and two ambulances are in front of Milosevic's residence on Dedinj. I'm calling the State Department, I know how insecure you are and I'm not telling you a lot, I'm calling the State's leadership to reason and sobriety. If the blood is spilled, then there may be no end to the bloody circuit. You know, it's dangerous. That's why I call for reason and sobriety. You who have no sense do not understand. I hope there are those who are reasonable, and they currently have the means of power in their hands. That's why I'm saying this. It'll be very bad if there's blood. I have no personal reason to defend Milosevic, but what you are doing tonight is at the expense of the state... (President: Mr. Seselj, you don't know who's doing what here. Please don't do what Mr. Ivkovic did. You are neither authorized nor obliged to verify these types of information, nor to get to know the public about it. But you've misinformed the Assembly. (President: I didn't misinformed and we can discuss it in a break. I want my conscience to be calm. I am here to the nation, not to Parliament, to announce what is happening, and my conscience is peaceful. For all that may happen much worse, the responsibility of those who organized it will be borne.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2805	I guess that's what you mean. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2806	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, distinguished fellow MPs, we can demonstrate reason only if we behave responsibly. Responsible behaviour in parliament MPs demonstrates a responsible attitude towards work that they do. It is not our job to worry about who is sitting in a car in front of the house where Slobodan Milosevic is located. He's a citizen like any of us. If he's worried, he knows best what to worry about. We are certainly not the ones who will legalize lawlessness. The parliament in which Mr Seselj represented power in the previous term was, of course, the parliament in which there was at least reason and at least the law, and if the decisions were interpreted. So let's get back to discussing the excise law. We adopted the Agrarian budget, the budget, right when voting on these two very important issues that this parliament is dealing with for three days, and it goes into one night. Mr. Seselj was not there and thus shows his interest in the work he does. So, just amendments, voting, that's the job we're here for, and let others do the work they exist for.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2807	Cedomir Jovanovic is right, I haven't been here in three days, and I haven't told my father what's on the agenda. I wasn't involved in Parliament's work at all. As far as he's concerned. I wasn't here at all. This isn't a serious thing, because I don't care if there's a group of people out there. If it's a group to the teeth of armed men, with long pipes, then it must also concern this Parliament. Especially if a new American ultimatum has been announced in the press this morning. If you do so, according to the American ultimatum and cause bloodshed in Belgrade, you should be aware of the consequences and nothing more. Don't run away from responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2808	I am putting the amendments to the People's MP Milos Lukic to vote. For 22, against 130, a abstentioned no one voted 9, a total of 161 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. There was a suggestion, something I get to make a short break. (Lowers from the O.R.: No. All right. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Petar Jojic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2809	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment that I have submitted, that is, by the amendment I have submitted, I ask that item 3 and point 7 be deleted in Article 9, namely not to pay for the oil for the deposit, which is 5 dinars and 40 pairs and the oil for the lighting of two dinars and 50 pairs. On the one hand, we are faced with the request of the EPS to save electricity, to move on to other types of heating. And one of the good things about heating is oil for hatching. Power restrictions are being announced. Many will have to use oil for lighting, and now excise duties are introduced. It's not about the big sum, and as far as I hear it, the finance minister will accept that the oil excise is lifted by processing. So we're already breaking one principle, that the adopted budget is changing, that at least for this oil for lighting, and which is not a big sum, you can lift the excise and, if possible, for the oil for hatching. It's one way to switch to heat without power.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2810	The word has Petar Jojic, as a supporter of the same amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2811	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known from its content that this law is in close contact with the budget and it shows that excise duties are one of the significant items for filling it. This wants the government to put the gray economy under control, which is impossible. The grey economy must be regulated by the reform of many laws in a different way. However, the Excise Act has not precisely defined all the areas mentioned therein and in order to successfully implement particularly the parts of the law from Articles 9 to 20. I have proposed an amendment, specifically to Article 9(1). The bill, where I suggest that points 3 and 7 be deleted. It is known that a number of our citizens are forced to heat up on the vine oil. The loads of oil and this energy excise will in any case burden many households, and these are very poor households that are forced to heat up on the vine oil. It is not clear what the proposer was doing when he predicted that even on the oil, even for lighting, he would pay for the excise. It is known that in certain parts of our country a number of our citizens are forced to use it and use this oil exclusively as lighting. I think this should be lifted, because there's no room for citizens to be burdened with excise duties right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2812	Since no one is answering for a word, I am putting Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Peter Jojic to the vote. For 19, against 112, the abstention of no one, voted 21, a total of 152 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2813	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I can tell you're reading radical amendments after all. You want to learn something, too. I can only say that the amendment submitted by the Government is my amendment, because you must have adopted the entire amendment to Article 9. You've missed one important thing, which is that on liquid gas, and there you've given 1.90 dinars, surely it has to go a lot more. It concerns the Vojvodina, because it uses a lot of liquid gas and just all the amendments that were, they were because of the gas. It's still said that the excise duty must go down, at least for one dollar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2814	Since no one is answering for a word, I am putting MP Lazar Marjansky's amendment to the vote. For 19, against 112, the abstention of no one, voted 17, a total of 148 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2815	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 to delete points 3, 6 and 7. Since the government has repeatedly appealed to a cut in electricity since the government has already announced an increase in electricity prices, since 1 April 2001, all layers of our population will turn to increased consumption, some other sources of energy, such as hatching oil, special oil for hatching, light special, liquid oil gas, as well as a light-up pen. Since we live in the 21st century, with a significant collection of electricity, in any case we, the people of Nikola Tesla, will live as in prehistory. The funds that Serbian citizens receive as personal incomes are not enough for existence, so Serbian citizens are forced to turn to a different, cheaper kind of energy. The government of the Republic of Serbia has increased excise duties to these sights, so they have become expensive, for our own anyway, a shallow pocket. First of all, a wide population has been affected, which has reached its lower social impatience threshold. The refugees that remain in these places, not by their own will, but by NATO's will, are heated primarily on the vine oil, and many, we must be honest, as a basic means of heating, have some other kinds of energy. It's sad that I have to say this, but these people after these kind of excises, they won't be able to even use the oil for lighting, as the tool that's been cheapest so far. It's probably a picture of the average life of our citizen, what part of Europe wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2816	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 118, there were no abstentions, there were no 12 votes, and a total of 149 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MPs Stevan Kesejic, Rajko Baralic and Gordana Pop-Lazic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here you go. There's a word for Stevan Kesajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2817	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 9, in Section 1, point 7, I suggest that it be deleted. So far, the practice has shown us that DOS government has kept this people in the dark, that electricity has not been longer for months since they took over power and that our perspective is not brighter, as DOS's promise even stronger restrictions in the coming period, and the 1 April increase that will be more than 100 percent for electricity consumers. For these reasons, Serbian citizens will have to opt for other sources of electrical lighting, i.e. those lighting that leads the people of Serbia into a new 21st century. The introduction of Serbia's oil people will certainly save a lot of money, but the DOS government also came up with that, so it imposed excise duties on the basic need for citizens to see. The best thing would be if they didn't see anything if they lived in the dark. That is why this amendment will make a great deal of difference for Serbian citizens, lighting their apartments with oil, to have in their heads exactly what you promised them in the pre-election campaign, to live better, but by touching, not looking and not seeing. I believe and I am convinced that the DOS majority in parliament will also vote in favour of this amendment, first of all, that this special device, the petroleum woman, will get a new name and be called "supply". It will be for centuries, known and recognised, and will remember all Serbian citizens of DOS, who ruled for several months and who successfully returned Serbian citizens to the 19th century.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2818	Thank you. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2819	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I will begin at the beginning to say that I will not say that Vojislav Kostunica is guilty of everything that has been going on in this country since October 5th and beyond, so please do not turn off my microphone. As for the amendment, relating to the Excise Act, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the SRS has been watching the Excise Law proposal, as part of the government's attempts to implement fiscal reform, to provide funds for the budget, to oppose the grey economy. Excise is, in essence, part of the burden that end up being borne by consumption, which the modern world knows, but everywhere in the world, there is a tendency to decline in excise duty, and that is not the case with us. Accize, above all, they have a function of protection, of smoking, of alcoholism and so on. The Excise Law reveals that its implementation will raise significant funds for the new budget, in the planned amount, of as much as 25.5 billion dinars, which is slightly less than the total amount of last year's budget. This far-reaching of the new budget with excise funds is unreal, nor does it have this kind of resources for excise taxpayers. The public spending security process itself is related to the expansion of the type and number of excise products, and especially this occasion should be highlighted by the oil industry, which is why I tabled the amendment, i.e. what is all the subject of excise duties, which are all the bonds of excise duties, which is the basis of excise and what are the amounts and rates. For many products, we are advocating the world, taking into account this bill. Given the products to which the excise duty is paid, as well as the basis for payment, above all the amount of excise duty, our party, the SRS, does not accept to be an accomplice to this excise press. The increase in this type of fiscal commitment is unacceptable for our citizens, and thus for the SRS. What exactly is excise? One type of tax, and this type of tax must be compared to the economic strength of taxpayers, as well as with economic borders and the role of taxes in general. Reaching for excise duties is the easiest way to secure funds for public spending, but it is also the fastest way to avoid the true reform of the tax system promised by the prime minister and DOS government in the pre-election campaign and prime minister in the exposé itself. When you propose an excise on the oil, believe me, this proposal has led to a bitter mockery. I've got four oil companies in my house, so I'm counting on the state to benefit from me by imposing an excise on the oil, and probably this government knows that the power in Serbia will be gone for a long time, so that citizens will have to move to oil. So, there's an increase in fuel consumption, so let's get some force on the villa, some more dinar, for the budget register.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2820	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. The vote was 18, against 109 abstentions, did not vote 18, out of 145 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MPs Miroljub Veljkovic and Dragan Colic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2821	The secretary of the congregation is doing his job badly again. It is clear that the Government, as well as the Finance Committee, has accepted my amendment. I suggested that article 9 be changed by exporting excise duties to oil derivatives by 30%. Even the government came out more to meet my proposal, so it dropped 60% on motor gasoline. So, the government has accepted, and the secretary seems to have misrepresented it to you, miss, so you've read, it's not accepted. So, I'm pleased, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2822	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. There were 18 votes against 116 abstentions, not 14 votes, out of 148 members of parliament. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2823	Article 10 is amended and reads - tobacco processing excise duties are paid at different amounts compared to foreign and domestic cigarettes. It is certainly necessary for excise duty to be applied to tobacco processing, but it is necessary for different excise duties to be applied to cigarettes of domestic production in order to protect domestic production, domestic tobacco processing factories which are in an invisible position. They currently have half-yearly production in stock, which they cannot sell because of the dumping prices of importers or foreign producers and the tobacco mafia. The tobacco fund and tobacco producers informed Mr. Branko Dragas, adviser to the Prime Minister - the situation and problems in the tobacco branch, with a proposal for a measure. The family of tobacco in 2000 was bought at an amount of 8.179 tonnes. This is less by 10% compared to the bought-out amount of tobacco in 1999, when it was 9,042 tonnes and less by 46% compared to the contracted and decomposed quantity of tobacco in 2000, planned in 14,479 tonnes. The cause was a drought. The value of bought tobacco is 557.7 million dinars, with no premium for producers. The producers paid 406,3 million dinars. State of 31.01.2001, the debt to producers is 151 million and 400 million dinars, the total premium is 196.3 million dinars based on the bought-out amount of tobacco in 2000. A paid premium of 94.2 million or an advance of 35.6 million plus 56.6 for the second quarter. The manufacturer's debt is 102,100. That IMT was paid 84.2 million to buy 314 tractors. IMT has delivered 50 tractors to this day. That a decision by the transitional government of the Republic of Serbia loaned IMT 100m dinars from an account for the dying of raw tobacco, the flag of Kragujevac 40m dinars, which completely emptied that account. That cigarette factories are unable to buy and pay companies or kilos of tobacco at the moment, because their domestic sales of cigarettes have been drastically reduced and stockpiled due to the privileged position of import cigarettes. The raw tobacco production plan in 2001 is 15,020 tonnes, with a very favourable type structure. The participation of the most informative type of tobacco is 40%. In order to achieve such an ambitious plan of producing raw tobacco needs on the domestic market, about 80% would be reconciled. Certain investments are needed, in addition to the purchase of seeds, protective products and repro-materials, for the purchase of 205 special droughts for the drying of virginia, worth 98.4 million dinars plus the purchase of 3,000 tonnes of special mineral fertilisers based on potassium sulphate MPK 8, 16, 24, or 7, 14, 21, worth about 45 million dinars. The measure - that the Government of the Republic of Serbia continues to retain an existing regulation on the incentive of the production of raw tobacco ("Official Messenger" No. 16/2000), which gave very positive effects, as manufacturers returned to tobacco production. The evidence was arranged and distributed production of tobacco in 2000, 14,798 tonnes, which was halved by an unremembered drought. It should only be brought into line with the safeguard price in the sense of the application of the existing raw tobacco pricer by types and classes and by the tobacco law. (The President - Time) ) The transport of fermented tobacco deals with unauthorized and private enterprises, which do not have equipment, nor professional labour for the fermentation of tobacco. Given the need to eliminate these problems, which cause negative reactions in primary producers, which are - that in a special way to stimulate primary tobacco production, which is located in the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate, the government is returning 100 million dinars. (President: Mr. Janjic, now it's time for the amendments, you've already been six minutes, please finish. 40 million dinars borrowed from the Kragujevac flag. That the funds recovered are immediately directed towards the payment of the total debt to the primary agricultural producers, because it is a great dissatisfaction of primary producers, which can negatively affect the achievement of a very ambitious 2001 plan, that the companies for the production and processing of tobacco, the funds paid to producers beyond the premium, deliver to the Republic of the Reserve Directorate, or deliver fermented tobacco.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2824	Mr. Janjic, I'm obliged to take away your word, you've really exaggerated, this is the time for amendments, it's not a debate in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2825	I know you're not interested in tobacco producers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2826	Anybody else answer for a word? He's not answering. I put this amendment to the vote and I ask you to plead. For 18, against 122 abstentions, there was no vote 18, a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2827	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, in Article 10, for all of these positions, from one to five, I suggest that excise duties be reduced by 50%, and all other means to be purposely directed towards domestic agricultural production, or domestic tobacco industry, that in all those areas, where tobacco could not be produced so far, this would encourage the domestic tobacco industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2828	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting on an amendment. For 18, against 127, there were no abstentions, no 11 MPs voted, a total of 156. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not here. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I'm putting the amendment to the vote and I'm asking you to vote. For 19, against 115, there were no abstentions, no vote 23, a total of 157. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 11th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Slobodan Janjic and Petar Jojic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2829	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 11(1), I have tabled an amendment and I suggest that it be deleted in point 3. In fact, if a excise duty was imposed on alcohol, which is sold to hospitals, pharmacies and other end-users, this would directly affect price and service growth, which would negatively affect such a difficult situation in our health care, both consumers and healthcare providers. That is why I propose that this amendment be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2830	There is a word from the Messenger of the People, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2831	It is inappropriate to apply the excise duty proposed by the government to alcohol sold in pharmacies, hospitals, if it is known that health care is in a difficult situation anyway. These costs would add to their business. That alcohol is used by patients in home care, as well as diabetics for disinfection. Is that what taxes, taxes, taxes, what's needed?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2832	If no one is answering for a word anymore, I'm putting this amendment to the vote and I'm asking you to plead. For 20, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 21 MP, a total of 155. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. The amendment promoter isn't here. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For 18, v. 127, a abstentioned one, was not voted 12, a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2833	To Article 12. I have proposed an amendment to the Excise Law, and I believe that no excise duty should be imposed on beer, which contains little alcohol, because it is a nutrient product of a nutrient nature. Many of our citizens use beer as a food item of broad consumption. That's why I don't think it's necessary to introduce an excise on beer, precisely because of the nutritious properties and the broad use of our citizens. If an excise payment was introduced, almost 50% would be more expensive for our citizens, which is absolutely enormous for these opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2834	Please let us be clear about this amendment. For 24, against 118, there were no abstentions, there was no 16 vote, a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 13th amendment in the same text. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee has rejected this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 13 is related to the subject of integration and to what Mr Miroljub Veljkovic spoke at the beginning of the debate on details during the first amendment. It is about refreshing soft drinks and the fact that the proposer through this special type of tax and excise, call it whatever you want, predicts that a litre of refreshing non-alcoholic beverages and then states what all of this is, and these are refreshing non-alcoholic beverages, from fruit base, plant extracts and cereals, artificially refreshing non-alcoholic beverages, syrups, powders, etc., taxing, that the excise for this product type is one and a half dinar per litre. The government of the Republic of Serbia in the draft budget has shown us that revenue from the planned 107.6 billion dinars for 2001 is really hard to achieve. For a simple reason, this will be seen through amendments to the Transport Tax Act, and it has been throughout our constructive discussions and the indication of the harmfulness of such tax policy, that the excise duty merely wanted to affect from various types of products a total of 25 billion 500 million, or a quarter of the planned revenue. I consider it an unfounded one-and-a-half dinar excise on a litre of refreshing non-alcoholic drinks for the simple reason that by arriving so-called. The democratic opposition of Serbia to power in our country, you know and you are aware of it yourself, many factories have almost completely stopped working. But there's a lot of those so-called. social enterprises, and much more is on the list of those involved in the production of refreshing non-alcoholic drinks of private enterprises, which will be affected by this measure by the government and the way in which taxes are collected, i.e. excise duties in this amount and from this product and make it difficult for them to continue production and business. It is clear to us that you will not accept this amendment. This will be discussed by a fellow Serbian Radical Party MP, Mr Ljubomir Kragovic, and it would be really difficult for you, because by the fact that you are under pressure here, our amendments and the general public, to reduce the excise on oil and gasoline, it is enough that the budget deficit is now much higher, perhaps up to 40-45 billion dinars, which you will not be able to provide, and by taxing and exciseing this on what should be a normal need for a wider layer of people, residents and the fact that you will make it difficult for manufacturers to sell these products to a greater extent. It probably goes in favor of all those, and most of you are in DOS, who want to make this difficult position of our factories even harder, and especially because of the fact that many of the leaders, including the prime minister himself, this excise on domestic products is not a refreshing soft drink, because we all know that his favorite drink is coke, where he has a certain number of actions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2836	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, by amendment to Article 13, to delete, we give another chance that it is certainly left to pay excise tax on refreshing non-alcoholic beverages, but only on import. It means that foreign non-alcoholic beverages, but if this amendment were accepted, would free domestic production, because it is inappropriate to pay for the non-alcoholic beverages produced by us in Serbia, to pay excise duty, so I would ask you to accept this amendment, because these would remain excise on refreshing non-alcoholic beverages, but would then only apply to those imported, because domestic production would be freed, and therefore the normal price would be lower and the final consumer would be much less isolated for refreshing non-alcoholic beverages.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2837	If no one ever answers my word again, I'll put the amendment to the vote. For 22, against 121, no one abstained, 15 voted, a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The amendment was rejected by the Finance Committee and by the Government's representative at the committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2838	I suggest to Mr. Minister that in Article 13, instead of 1.50 dinars per litre, he reduces it to 0.50.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2839	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 21, against 123, no one abstained, no voted 16, a total of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 14th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Finance Committee has rejected this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2840	The Serbian Radical Party is certainly in favour of paying the excise on coffee, but we believe that the proposed amount of 10 dinars per kilogram of coffee is too large and therefore I have made the amendment to reduce that amount to five dinars per kilogram for raw, fried, milled and extractive coffee, for the simple reason that it is one strengthening to the extent that it is not a harmful drink, something that has left for us Serbs since the Turkish era, but much worse than the Turkish era will hit us under such a power. These are the kind of tax laws package, and this is the kind of hack we didn't even experience at the time. I suggest you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2841	If no one ever answers for a word again, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 120, the abstentions were not voted 21, a total of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2842	President, I prefer it when you say he didn't take it, he refused. I mean, I'll be brief. We know that black coffee is used by broad masses. I suggest you reduce Mr. Djelic from 10 dinars per kilo to 3 dinars. I think we'd all be happy, both the government and the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2843	If no one ever answers for a word again, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 124 abstentions, one did not vote 12, a total of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Stevan Kesejić, Goran Cvetanović, Vitomir Plužarevic, Petar Jojic, Veroljub Arsic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Vladimir Garčević, Rajko Baralić and Momir Radojić. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the bearer of the courtman want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2844	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment to Article 15, where we suggest that the said member be deleted, it's about salt for food. Starting from the fact that salt is necessary for the diet, as well as bread and other life supplies, and that the lack of salt directly affects the health and metabolism of the organism, so often it can affect the ultimate effects of life, so it would be inhumane to increase all these life needs by excises. You're in a hurry, gentlemen. It seems you don't need salt from this people either. In particular, in Article 15, which refers to the excise value of 2 dinars, I must draw attention to the fact that excise prices for different packaging are also being talked about in this article. Namely, a pack of one kilogram is two dinars, which will say that it is proportional to the size of the pack as much as that of the excise value per kilogram. I'm surprised you didn't bring excises on the salties, on the little salty, on the bigger salty, and however the salty is higher in the household, that's how the price of the salt excise is determined. Therefore, I propose that a member of this excise law be deleted and that it be released otherwise from the already excessive duties imposed by this promoter. It is well known that the bread, among the Orthodox Serbs, is another symbol, where the host welcomes the guest with salt and bread, and if nothing else, we should show our soul and release the sauce, and enable the citizens to make this necessary living need as accessible as possible to the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2846	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I can tell you that at the very least I was surprised to see that excise was introduced into the kitchen salt. There is also Mr. Health Minister, who is an expert doctor, and will have to agree with me that after water, the kitchen is ioded with the most important chemical element for the survival of the human species. Ladies and gentlemen, salt for human consumption is also used in the food industry, in the entire food industry, starting with the bakery industry. So there's also a direct introduction of excise duty on bread. From the conditoral industry, from the dry-meat industry, excise is introduced even to our winters. Maybe that amount of two dinars doesn't look too big per kilogram to you. I'll take a later chance, when there's a personal income tax debate, to prove to you that from one dinar at the end there are three in retail. That's for sure. Now the finance minister is gone, and I wanted to invite him to this pay phone to explain to this parliament and the Serbian public why he is imposing an excise on food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2847	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2848	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I remind you once again that excise duty as a form of taxation of certain products should be burdened only by luxurious goods, as well as by any normal state. That's what you know: cigarettes, alcohol, pumpkins, fur, gold, diamonds, brilliants, what you in DOS have. But, salt, as a basic life supply, burdened with excise duty, is something that absolutely undermines the existence of excise duty as a kind of tax. It cannot be explained economically that the excise, here is Professor Popovic, the minister is not there, how is it possible that excise taxation is taxing something that is not luxurious? I don't know who brought you up, but my grandfather told me when I was a kid, first you have to have salt, flour, yeast, sugar and gas. That's all you need, as basic life supplies, so you can survive. I think the health minister would have to explain, agree or convince these other representatives of the government that it is a life-saving food that directly depends on people's health, and he's probably the one who needs to take care of people's health. I understand that there is an excise duty on alcohol, on gasoline, on cigarettes, but there is also a need to distinguish between domestic production and import products. President Djindjic himself, the Prime Minister, told us that it is easier to control the exit of products from the factory from domestic production than when imports and admitted that imports cannot control it. So, it was supposed to protect domestic production, and the excise duty was used to paint imported products. We are really trying from this pay phone to show the public that this whole package of laws is about how much it will cost them, how much it will peel the skin of all of us and the citizens of Serbia. We tried to convince the government and to correct it, as far as possible. The government has remained deaf, but the citizens will remember what we have been telling them these days, and I hope they will assess who it is that eventually completely peeled them off.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I still owe it as a doctor to say a few sentences about salt, as one important element of nutrition. First of all, so is a basic life supply, which belongs to a group of 65 products that make up the consumer basket of citizens. That's why you know how vital it is. I'll take a few sentences on that. First of all, the most effective way to prevent strume, for the entire population, is to iodine salts for kitchen, veterinary and similar use. This prophylaxis has led to a significant reduction in the frequency of strume, i.e. asphyxiation and cretinism. I'll just remind you that the energy current is still represented in certain parts of Serbia, and above all in the Kopalnik area, the Raška area, let the villages in Mačva, and certainly there is one in Serbia and Montenegro. Otherwise, in our country, only a colleague to provide information since it is obviously not informed, a mandatory iodination of salt has been introduced, and this is legally introduced by a mandatory iodination of salt, a legal regulation, which is 10 milligrams of potassium iodide per kilogram of salt, which is precisely this iodinated salt. For workers who spend more energy working, the need for salt is from 20 - 25 grams a day. By reducing salt intake, the intake and essential minerals are reduced, and above all I mean sodium and chlorine. In the end, only an increase in the price of salt affects, in any case, the increase in the price of finished products, which are mainly meat processing, dairy products and spicy goods.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2850	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that Amendment 15 be deleted,... (President: What to do? An amendment? ) A member, Article 15, means the amendment has been put on that member, that this member is deleted and that because of the overall economic situation and everything that is happening in society, this will be a benefit to our people, that is, to our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2851	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is not insignificant to point out that the budget does not have to be charged precisely because the price of salt needs to be increased by two dinars more. That's why I considered it necessary to submit this amendment, and I think there's no reason, regardless of the difficulties we're in, but it's not appropriate to raise the price of salt, and that's two dinars per kilogram. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2852	Since no one's answering for a word, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 21, against 107, the three abstentions, not voted 22, a total of 153 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2853	Thank you. I'll do it very briefly. A two dinar excise per kilogram, to go to 0.50 dinars, so there would be excises, but only 50 pairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2854	If there are no more reports, I am putting the amendment of MP Lazar Marjansky to the vote. For 16, against 116, a abstentioned no one voted 22, a total of 154 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. Since the Finance Committee has adopted this amendment, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, because he's not here, he's on duty. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 20, against 110, a abstentioned one, was not voted 22, a total of 153 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2855	Mr. President, please have the service pick up the cards for those who aren't in the O.R. and change this water.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2856	Do you want to speak before we determine the quorum or what?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2857	Just to change the water.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2858	I ask the service to draw cards in places where MPs are not present.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2859	Stop the time, please. You didn't create the conditions so I could speak. Change this water first.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2860	He should be here. We're waiting. Here you go, Mr. Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2861	In Article 18. The draft excise law, item 3 is amended and reads as follows: "The means of printing and issuing control excise stamps are provided by the National Bank of Yugoslavia and the Resolute Ministry of Finance and Economy in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. "The reason - it is not appropriate for the excise undertaking manufacturer, the manufacturer of the commercial company to pay excise stamps because, in the transactions of the bank, the producer, or the importer, they charge certain duties, which additionally burdens producers and commercial companies. Also, the proposed law could lead to a major abuse of excise stamps, because of the possibility of controlling them. I ask the camera to display these two cartons of cigarettes (Freedan Janjic shows two cartons of "Partner". ) It's "The Partner", but look at what these boxes look like in the trades in Belgrade. One with stamps from Macedonia and one from Serbia. Who are we paying for the excise? That seems to be your tobacco mob.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2862	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For 12, against 91, there were no abstentions, there was no 34 vote, and a total of 137 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 19th amendment. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2863	Dear Members of the People, I have proposed that excise duty be paid on products exported by producers. One thing, Professor Popovic, since the minister isn't here, I have to talk to you, you did this in your, let me say, tax system reform, which is that you made a unique tax rate. It is high, and I will have amendments when that law comes on the agenda, but it's a good thing. We finally got a unique tax rate. This is one of the assumptions of introducing the law to an additional value or to a new created value. I suppose your tax reform will go that way, that it'll probably be the next move -- introducing a tax on extra value. The next thing you're going to have to do is to charge the excise duty, and the sales tax on export goods, and when the exporter exports the goods, to the tax authority the export customs declaration, the state gives it back to him. All countries in the world, which have an extra tax category, have this kind of practice and it is normal. It's going to be one thing that's going to be tested in this year as it works. Another good thing, if this amendment is accepted, is that we will prevent fictitious export papers and that excise goods remain in the state. Only one piece of information, an example-exporting cigarette, works with fictitious papers in RS, Croatia, Macedonia, if these are cigarettes of Group A, will remain 6 million dinars not charged with excise duties. We all had a chance to hear the Prime Minister from six to seven days ago, when he told the entire nation that he had called the director of the federal administration of customs and asked him if you could stop the oil smuggling? The director of the federal administration of customs, he told him - no. How can we be sure now that no fictitious export papers will be made for those 200 thousand marks, because so much is on the cigarette trunk? So two good things belong and this amendment gives us that. To test and prepare the introduction of a tax on extra value. Another thing -- we'll prevent it, and you'll be sure it will be, and everyone here in the hall knows that there are, especially those who live near those border posts to Republika Srpska, etc. I suggest that the government accept this amendment because I think it's good.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2864	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 14, there are no 117 abstentions, no 17 votes, and a total of 148 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 19th amendment. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2865	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 19. I have proposed that point 2 be deleted in point 1 of the Excise Act. There is no basis or reasonable reason to be exempt from paying excise duties on products supplied by diplomatic and consular representations, as well as foreign diplomatic staff and consular officials. I believe that the representatives of diplomatic and consular representations are more likely to pay excise duties than our citizens, so they should not be released, and the control itself from the release of excise payments is not possible and I believe that they should be burdened with paying for excise duties. They're far richer than our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2866	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 122 abstentions, there were no 13 votes, and a total of 152 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Garčević. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not here. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 125, there were no abstentions, there were no 11 votes, out of 156 members of parliament. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Svedovic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2867	Dear People's Chosen Ones, the Honorable Presidency, this amendment referred to the release from oil excise, which was obtained by re-finding. In agreement with Minister Djelic, the government will allow this product to be released from excise duty at the next session, so I withdraw the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2868	I find that the amendment has been withdrawn, but I don't know how it will be released if the excise law determines that it does. It's not my place to think about it. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 21st amendment. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2869	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, in Article 21. The proposal for a law in paragraph 2 is prescribed that the finance and economics minister may approve excise warehouses in which the manufacturer may dispatch products without the obligation to account for the excise duty, provided that the control of the dispatch and reception of the product to which the excise duty is paid is ensured. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am of the opinion - if the proposal set out in Article 21(2) were to be accepted. The Excise Law proposal would raise a question and there would be a great danger for a number of malfeasances and irregularities, as the finance minister would be empowered to designate warehouses for possible privileged producers without the billing and payment of excise duties at the moment of storage, which is required under the Law. Therefore, I propose that points 2, 3 and 4 of this amendment be deleted in paragraph 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2870	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 131, there were no abstentions, no six votes, of a total of 158 members present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. Since the Finance Committee has accepted the amendment of the Government, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the 27th amendment. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2871	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted the amendment to Article 27, which says that interest is imposed on anyone who does not pay the excise fee within the prescribed deadline of 0.2% per day. There's been a miracle, gentlemen of the Parliament. The government probably, with all these experts and Minister Djelic at the helm, considered this amendment carefully and accepted it basically, as explained in the response I received, like all of you. The amendment was accepted because the 0.2 per cent interest per day could not be calculated, the interest tightened, in this way, because it is contrary - as the government says. The amendment of the MP was basically accepted through the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which suggests that interest be calculated in accordance with federal regulations governing the height of the tight interest. They did not deliberately overlook the fact that it was contrary to federal regulations, because the Law on Liabilities through Articles 277, 278, and 279 regulates the tight interest, as well as the other interest regulated by this law. The amendment was essentially accepted, but was precisely defined in the way I said - that an econtamination rate of the National Bank of Yugoslavia is being calculated on an annual basis, that the National Assembly should be accepted. Because if this interest was calculated from which the government gave up due to such "failure", the fact that they were aware of what kind of revolt would produce such a process and a way of calculating a tight interest, the econtamination rate of the NBJ is just as much that in the amount at an annual level as expected inflation by the government, is about 30%. If there was a tight interest of 0.2% a day and we would have interest at an annual level of over 76%. Minister Djelic himself knows the fact that the government crisis and the great revolution in France questioned the government's position a few years ago, because the interest only increased by a few percent, i.e. its increase was proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2872	For 21, against 126, there were no abstentions, there were no 11 votes, a total of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. The Financial Committee has adopted this amendment. Since the Finance Committee has accepted the amendment of the Government, I find that this amendment has become part of the bill. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. The promoter's not here. Please make your statement on this amendment. For 17, against 125, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 14, a total of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. The Financial Committee has adopted this amendment. Since the Finance Committee has accepted the amendment of the Government, I find that this amendment has become part of the bill. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has accepted this amendment. Since the Finance Committee has accepted the amendment of the Government, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed a review of the draft law in particular and a decision on amendments, we can conclude a review of the draft law in particular and vote on the Excise Act in general. I'm putting on a vote for the Excise Act in general. For 134, v. 6, abstention one, they did not vote four, a total of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill of excise duties. Before we move to the fourth item of the agenda, I wanted to remind you that at the beginning of the session, on 27 March this year, I informed you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted the National Assembly of 24 draft laws to you on 15 March 2001. [[Applause]] Six are included in the agenda of this session, and we have 18 bills left in the procedure, which were submitted by the Government. In addition, you have received a number of draft laws and other acts, submitted by the MPs and committees of the National Assembly. Given the number of acts in the assembly procedure, as well as the need for a timely organisation of the work of the National Assembly's competent committees, I convened the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001 for Monday, April 9, 2001. The session, which will be delivered to you at your addresses, also includes a proposal for the sitting agenda. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - A PROPOSAL OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONTRACTION OF THE Law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs Nebojsa Jović, Natasa Jovanovic, Tomislav Nikolic, Tomislav Vatović, Božidar Vučurović, Predrag Mijailović, Stevan Kesejić, Dragan Marković, Borislav Pelevic, Živob Selaković, Goran Cvetanović, Slobodan Janjic, Sredoje Mihajlov, Marijan Rističević, Dragoljub Stamenković, Milorad Mirčić, Vojislav Obradović, Veroljub Arsić, Gordana Pop - Lazić, Petar Jojić, Dragan Čolić, Srboljub Živanovic, Dragan Tomić, Mom Radoičić, Zoran Radovović, Jovan Todorović, Committee Bulibrk, Stevan Gudurić, Živodarka Dacin, Miroljuvić and Živar Živarović, Živarjan Živić, Ivan Živić, Ivan Živićić and Živić. The MP, Živodarka Dacin, informed the National Assembly that he was withdrawing his amendment to Article 11. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Transport and Communications and the Committee on Culture and Information, as well as the Government's opinion on individual amendments. I put to the vote the proposal for a law on sales tax in principle. For 131 against 8, there were no abstentions, there was no 7. A total of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. I ask the Government to declare this amendment (the Government does not accept this amendment). ) (Employee Gordana Pop-Lazic, from the post: The Minister of Finance is the rapporteur here, not the Government. It's not the government, yes, it's the government's representative. I said I'd ask the government's representative to plead. If I've made a lapus, I'm sorry, but either way, I'm asking the government's representative to plead the amendment. The Prime Minister suggested that the amendment not be accepted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, there were no abstentions against 119, no votes were received by 8, a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 8th amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment (the Government's representative has pleaded negatively. ) I call on the Proposer to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2873	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8 paragraph 5 of Article 2 and I am giving this opportunity to Mr. Bozidar Djelic to prove that he is a genius. Half the conditions have already been met because it is called Bozidar, and this other half, this amendment is actually an amendment that fills budget revenues, and prevents various interpretations, different interpretations, as it has been in practice so far. In the process of processing raw oil, other products are also produced, not only gasoline and diesel fuel. They're getting gasoline, so-called. Middle derivatives, you get lube and bitumen. To limit this member only to gasoline and diesel fuel means to enable refineries or private importers of crude oil, which give raw oil to processing, that instead of diesel, which is paid excise duties and taxes per article, they withdraw from the refinery a bitumen diluter, which is pure diesel only called. There's another 14 kinds of diesel fuel and it's all pure diesel, it's just a little different name. That's what these refinery thugs called it to avoid paying their dues. There's Velt, Novosol 1, Novosol 2 and I'm still not telling you how many products. That's why I think if the government already intends to fill the budget, it would accept this amendment that can't harm, and it can do much good. The second part of the amendment is that the taxpayer of the sales tax in oil transport is obtained by the service processing of the importer of crude oil. It doesn't change anything, it just avoids the possibility of abuse and manipulation. That's what I'm telling you from experience. The importer should be a taxpayer because the importer can import for a user who does not exist, for an importer who is fictitious. As evidence for customs authorities, which normally account for sales taxes in these derivatives, only the user’s statement is sufficient, and that user’s statement represents only one memorandum of the non-existent firm. If you haven't decided which companies to import, and if you haven't decided that there are companies that, instead of elevators, are going to pull surrogates from the refinery and thus avoid paying obligations to society, then this amendment should also be accepted and that half of the conditions for you to be a genius should be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2874	No one's answering for a word anymore. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 16, against 107, one abstention, 19 did not vote, a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. (The Government's representative made a negative statement. ) (Gordana Pop-Lazic - Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2875	President, I invite you to take a look at article 140 together. "The legislator, the committees responsible and the Government are obliged to consider amendments submitted on the draft of the law before the meeting of the National Assembly and to inform the National Assembly of which amendments they propose to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which to reject them." Minister Djelic cannot now say on behalf of the government - I accept the amendment or do not accept it. He can only do it under Article 2. Rules of Procedure to report for the word and to take part in the debate following the amendments submitted. I don't know, though, maybe we won. There are a lot of materials, and we may have a report from the government that the government has come forward on our amendments, but you need to know, don't violate the Rules of Procedure and don't produce Minister Djelic in all of the government right now. The government has a lot more members than one minister, though he's the only one here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2876	You'd be right here if you hadn't forgotten that it was an emergency procedure and that I could consider acts without... This is just one more piece of information. There's no need and we won't ask the government's representative again. That's one additional piece of information, but by emergency procedure, we have no obligation to have the government's position. I think you're satisfied with the answer. You'd be right if it wasn't an emergency procedure. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2877	This amendment is to Article 9(5), paragraph 4. This article is prescribed from the previous law, when there were different rates of taxes on the marketing of products and taxes on the marketing of services, since now the rates of taxes on products and taxes on services are 17% and then it is pointless to keep this. It's just extra paperwork. Make two invoices, one for a 17% transport, one for a 17% item. Why wouldn't that matter to one invoice? Excessive paperwork, administration and expenses.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2878	If no one is answering for a word anymore, please let us vote on the amendment of MP Vukurovic. For 17, against 105, no one was abstentioned, 22 voted, a total of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MPs Miroljub Veljkovic and Ljubomir Kragovic in the same text. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2879	Mr. Minister, just before, you weren't there, commending the government for introducing a unique rate of sales tax. This is a good preparation for further reform of the fiscal system, meaning for the introduction of a real tax, a value-added tax. However, the planned rate for this year of 17% is a major blow to population standards. After uncontrollably liberalising prices after October 5th, our market survived several major price shocks. Your calculations that since 1 April, by introducing this tax package, inflation will be 4.4%, prices will only rise 4.4%, not true, be sure and it will be much higher. So I suggest you reduce your rate to 12%. By introducing a new value tax, I suppose it will be since 1 January 2002, it can slowly, as population standards grow, slowly and the rate increases.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2880	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2881	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very serious amendment and the finance minister should plead with him. We've seen that the finance minister loves to keep his mouth shut, and especially his deputy, Dejan Popovic, no one would ever get a word out of him. Minister, don't answer the word when the debate is over, when the MPs don't have the opportunity to replicate. Enter a little debate with the MPs, in a debate, and then dispute those amendments, if you think they're no good. This 17% sales tax provision, for all goods that are taxed, is very dangerous. It will already cause a major inflation in April. You obviously didn't think about it, like DOS people don't think about anything at all. In the economy you're making a mess, in politics you're making a mess, in the legal system you're making a mess. The situation at Dedin is very tense, thousands of citizens gathered, surrounded by police. That's right. Leila, you don't know anything. You only know about spoons to talk about. It's all very serious. You're making chaos in all areas, and you're not thinking about the consequences at all. Your anxiety, your hatred here, is just an additional argument to me that I'm absolutely right. You didn't come here because you think with your own head, but because you obey NATO's pact. You are the choosers of the NATO Pact here. You're doing everything against your people. (President: Mr. Seselj, let's get back to the Transport Tax Act. I'm talking about the law. That law is also against the interest of our people, in general. The Serbian people will be sickened by this law, as is the case with each of your actions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2882	Please don't throw away. If no one ever answers for a word again, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 114 abstentions, 15 did not vote, a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2883	The amendment is based on an amendment proposed by Tomislav Nikolic. Namely, the basic idea from the exposé presented by the Prime Minister, which is that by conducting a tax policy, the economy should be disbursed first, and secondly, that such a policy should come into the situation that an average family can fly or winter from home budget. Now, not to go so far, but what is the ultimate goal of this government's fiscal policy, not only to fill the budget, but to have that average family buy one consumer basket. Since it is said here that now, what is the situation, 70% of this consumer basket, based on its purchasing power, can buy an average family. What's this all about? For the simple reason that this tax policy, where the percentage of the sales tax is equalised or averaged by 17%, ignores the fact that 3% of the sales tax is on the federal level. That means the average tax a citizen pays is 20%. If there is a structure of the product, which is on the market, and the analysis of that structure makes it clear that a good part of the participation has food products, and among them are those products that you have burdened, not only with sales tax but also with additional tax, excise tax. However, the bread from the consumer basket was not taxed, but it was taxed flour, water, yeast, additives. Besides, I haven't forgotten Kovacevic, salt. Neither the communists introduced salt tax nor the Turks introduced salt tax. You gentlemen are in. What would make sense? To allow that average family to live by DOS standards or standards and models of the European Community. That family should be taxed. Undermining is a story that causes a completely counterproductive effect for non-citizens, and most of this ruling corporation, that these taxes will only be paid by taxpayers. The costs of these taxes will be borne by Serbian citizens. Every citizen will also feel the consequences of this tax policy that you have. What's good is that in time, the ministers decide to reduce the sales tax for certain products, because since you've made an ad hoc decision to reduce the excise on gas and oil, so you've denied this budget by 10 billion, I think it would be less trouble to make the same decision for this speaker now, to free or reduce the taxes on food products. That would be good, and your party colleagues within DOS know that, just can't be here because of party discipline to get out. Djindjic threatened you. You from the Democratic Party of Serbia are next in line. Just play with him. Secondly, you said that you highly recommend, of course, I don't mean in a bad way what's warm, that MPs withdraw the amendments, because the Budget Act has already been passed. You didn't think to say it was an anti-constitutional act, an illegal act. In the halls, you talk about how you are in a fight with the autonomists, and each other, because of the adoption of the platform in the Vojvodina Assembly, and by this act, the Law on the Budget of Serbia, you gave them wings. Now they can iron out in Vojvodina, they can make plans that they will initially create autonomy, which will be attached to the original incomes, and later to the Republic. You're a direct culprit. But how can this counter-constitutional act be challenged when there is no Constitutional Court? Marjana Risticevic, you are in this bill too, because you are one average.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2884	Mr. President, look at the front row on the right, it turns out the MP is sitting, and he's not here. These results of the vote call into question the regularity of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2885	That's all I can interpret, please, is that under the circumstances when someone objects that it's a falsifying vote, so we can hear it in silence and solve the problem in silence. Let's focus a little bit. The only way to solve this is by checking the quorum, and that's what we're gonna do. Please, before we speak of the amendment of Ambassador Milorad Mircic, let us determine the quorum. We have a quorum. (Louds from the O.R.: Pause.) Well, we're not interested in that. I remind the MPs that we have made a decision to work within 24 hours, not to sit in the hall for 24 hours. So, we can make a statement about Ambassador Mircic's amendment. Please vote. For 21, against 115, there are no abstentions, no vote of 8, a total of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. I put the amendments to the vote. For 20, against 122, abstained no one, voted four, a total of 145 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. I put the amendments to the vote. For 17, against 121 abstention, no one voted 8, a total of 146 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Proposal to add a new member. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted Amendment 3, which proposed that a new Article 11 and Amendment 4 be added after Article 10, which he proposed that Article 11, as a result of Amendment 3, be renumbered, which, according to Article 138. The Rules of Procedure cannot represent a special amendment, but rather a legal - technical order to be presented under its amendment 3. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. I put the amendments to the vote. For 22, against 119, abstained no one, voted four, a total of 145 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Since the Finance Committee has accepted this amendment, I find that the Prime Minister's amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. I put the amendments to the vote. For 23, against 115, abstained no one, voted 10, a total of 148 MPs present. I therefore find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Pelevic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2886	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is one logical link between these amendments, which was submitted by the Soviet Union, which is that they do not very much interfere with the change and burden of the budget, and they take care of the most vulnerable layers of the population. In this sense, the amendment to Article 11(3) suggests that, in addition to all kinds of bread and milk, cheese, sugar, edible oil, eggs, fat, detergent of domestic production, soap for personal hygiene of domestic production, medicines, medical means, textbooks for basic, medium, high and higher education, drinking water, coal and heating wood. All of these products, according to all the criteria, are not the ones that participate in budgeting in some high percentages, and they would greatly contribute to maintaining the minimum of some quality of life. However, it should be possible for people, such as pensioners, unemployed, etc., to survive, to eat, to maintain a minimum of personal hygiene and to warm up during winter. Otherwise, these products are not really freed entirely. Namely, they are exempt from sales taxes, and I mean bread and milk, but they are burdened with all those taxes which these products are already loaded with, until they reach the consumer. They are burdened with all those personal incomes from employees in the process of production, then through the tax on services performed while these products reach the consumer, through personal income tax and other taxes, those involved in transport, etc. Therefore, the Soviet Union remains with this proposal and believes it is acceptable and should be adopted because it would be in the interest of a wide range of populations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2887	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 113, one was abstentioned, no vote was 10, and a total of 145 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2888	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed an amendment in which the government would explain to the people not to deceive them. I suggested that in Article 11(3), the word "cheese" should be deleted. Why should that word be deleted, explained my colleague Mircic earlier, because it is a cynical claim that no tax is paid on bread. All the ingredients of bread are paid even for water, and then you say no taxes are paid on bread. I only gave this amendment because, as you say, this law would be as transparent as possible. Just as transparent as you've hidden in the revenue side, the excise tax will be paid for by a circus of 50 billion dinars. That's why you're so easy to write off 15 billion, and that's why you're easy to raise some parts of the spending side of the budget because you've created black funds in advance, and that's what the world calls itself as a black fund, which you're going to cover, not just a fake budget deficit of 20 billion, but even a little bit more. Besides, probably not knowing I'm an MP for the opposition, you confirmed that to me yourself, Mr. Minister, in a conversation in the hallway.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2889	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put to the vote the amendments of Ambassador Bozidar Vučurovic. For 20, against 110, one was abstentioned, 14 did not vote, 145 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2890	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by amendment to Article 11. I propose that point 3 be changed and that, in addition to all kinds of bread, milk, the article adds: and dairy products are used for short term use. The explanation for this is very simple and simple. In addition to the use of milk in the daily consumption of a wide range of citizens, the use of other dairy products, short-term use, primarily yogurt, which is used in patients, where doctors often recommend that certain medicines be taken with yogurt, and also yogurt is consumed by older people and those who have less material income. Also, under this category, dairy products, it includes ice cream that mainly uses our younger generation, and these are children, so these...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2891	Mr. Keseiæ, just a minute, please the MPs a little quieter, if you could turn off your cell phones.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2892	I thought you were gonna take my word for ice cream, but it's not a warning, I can keep going. In this amendment where I propose to free these categories of dairy products, a wide range of citizens could use dairy products that have higher caloric values and are enriched with vitamins. For this reason, I believe that the Government, or the Proposer, should have all these circumstances in mind, and I am sure that it is not against the citizens to remove yogurt and ice cream from their children.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2893	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 115, there are no abstentions, no 12 votes, a total of 144 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. About the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2894	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Rules of Procedure have been broken in Article 113, where they say "national MPs are obliged to use their own identification cards exclusively, as well as to identify themselves when entering the hall by inserting a card into the parliamentary unit. For a MP who uses the identification card of the second MP, or otherwise abuses the electronic voting system, the President of the National Assembly proposes a move away from the session. Mr. Fallen General and the ambassador voted in 8. All right, left to right, third place was on fire.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2895	We'll wait for the secretary to come by and check in the service and see if that's really true. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Radoicicic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 107, there were no abstentions, no vote was 14 out of 141 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 110, there were no abstentions, 12 did not vote, out of 142 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2896	Article 11(1) amends point 4 and reads - fertilisers, plant protection products and adds seed "material". The applicant did not take into account the fact that agricultural producers must also be helped by making it easier to buy seed goods, which is a major point in investing in agricultural production.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2897	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 101, two abstentions, were not voted 18, out of 139 members of parliament. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. You want to follow the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2898	Ma'am, please determine the quorum in the O.R. Our MP group has doubts that there are enough MPs. Try to do so within the time limit prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, not wait two or three minutes through the electronic voting system for you to call your MPs out of the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2899	Which article says what time it is to determine the quorum, please. We'll determine the quorum, just a moment. I ask the Members of Parliament to... The word comes from Pal Shandor, also according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2900	Seselj also left the O.R. and left an identification card (Natasa Jovanovic from the site - the card is outside the unit. Yes, when I told the service to come and take out the card and the service took it out. So you're going with the story -- I wasn't in the O.R., and I left the card, so you didn't notice. Therefore, do not Don't play that. [[growls]] We can see it from here. He leaves the card on purpose, and then he says I'm not in the O.R., and I'm registering. He wants to put himself in the car... (Natasa Jovanovic - it suits you that his card is inside. I don't think it suits us. We have our quorum. We're so strong. We don't need his quorum, but it's not right because you're doing it on purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2901	Please, we can see about that, but only with the secretary and the service. I can't track who left it and who didn't leave the card. And as for the quorum, we'll determine the quorum. I ask the People's Messengers to, in order to determine the quorum, put in their... We've got another one on the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the scene - You can't do that. ) Can you wait till we determine the quorum, but well... We'll determine the quorum. I give my word to Mr. People's MP, Prophetic. (National MP Natasa Jovanovic approaches the table of the chairman and... Please don't argue. The word is made by the People's MP, Prophetic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2902	Article 113(1) has been injured, which says MPs are obliged to enter the hall to identify themselves by inserting a card into identification units. I understand, Mrs. Jovanovic, or Miss, or friend, that you're nervous. However, the arrests of the founder of your party, your... Your policy ideologist all these years, but it's not the Assembly where you should express that anxiety. Thank you. Milorad Mircic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2903	All I'm asking is from the technical service to have someone come in and check whose cards are in place, and whose cards aren't, whose cards are in and whose cards aren't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2904	The chairman broke the Rules of Procedure in the part where it is clearly said that there is no debate on the proposal for an MP to run a quorum check. There's no argument. What is wrong with you, are you sick? Almost there. And you fellows are very funny. You know, it's not the founder of the SRS. That's the one who financed you, the one you called and now you're arresting him. Wait, wait, Vesic's waving files and he's got Lekovic, so let's see when you get the files from the leader who got the money. Don't be like that. He founded you because he needed such an incompetent opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2905	We're establishing a quorum. Please insert your identification cards. I'm guessing we have a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2906	Mr. President, before three amendments, I pointed to a violation of the Rules of Procedure in Rule 113... where the measure is provided for the person who has misused the voting system, or someone else's card, the President of the National Assembly proposes a removal measure. While we wait for Mr. Secretary, this session can be over. And everyone saw that there was a third light next to him, where there was no messenger sitting.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2907	Mr. People's MP, your entire MP group abuses cards, sits in an O.R., not inserts identification cards into MPs. So, I'll take your remarks, but first you, who didn't pull the identification cards, step out of the O.R. Please draw in your cards or step out of the O.R., because I will be forced to apply the measures of the Rules of Procedure, as you suggested. You're required to draw the cards. Third row, second and third row, fourth row, first, third and fourth, sixth, eighth and ninth seats, fifth row, second, fourth, seventh, eighth and ninth seats. You have to insert the card. No matter what we have the quorum, your colleague objected to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, in the part of abuse of identification cards. You're required to insert the cards, when you're in the O.R., or to leave the O.R. Make up your mind - whether you're ghosts or you're MPs. (Employer Pal Shandor is asking for a word. If you have anything to say, go ahead for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2908	Dear gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS do not have the moral right to speak of this, I have proposed a timely amendment that whoever presses the button instead of someone else loses the parliamentary mandate. Together with the Socialists, you voted against the amendment. So, this Rules of Procedure here, what it says, is that when you were in power, you weren't about to lose your mandate, not just to get away from the gym, but to lose the parliamentary mandate, the one who pressed the button instead of the other. So, we're done with the story.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2909	He has the word National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic (infringement of the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2910	Please don't call SRS deputies ghosts, because we've been here all day, really, trying to make our contribution to the work of this assembly, and we're not going out of the hall, because we're always going out for this pay phone, and we have to wait for our turn to come out and bring out our amendments, and the MPs of the congregation's majority are walking around the Prince Michael, the restaurant and the buffets.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2911	You report a breach of the Rules of Procedure, or what do you do?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2912	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure - I do not allow you to address the Parliamentary Group, Mr. President, in accordance with Article 99, in this way. You have a duty to address everyone with respect. And if it takes you half an hour to collect the quorum here, that's your problem, not our problem. The opposition doesn't have to give you a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2913	It's just that it's the fact that your card isn't inhaled, and I feel like I'm seeing you. I simply realized that it may be your spirit, not you, who would not violate the Rules of Procedure. But you have a chance to explain the amendment to Article 11. The amendment was not accepted by the Government and the Finance Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2914	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we do not expect the Government and committees to accept our amendments, but we want to point out publicly that we have submitted amendments, that we have advocated with the Government to draw attention first of all that the SRS thinks that all these laws in general are bad, are not realistic, that they will lead to even greater chaos and for many subjects, and economics, and for citizens, who absolutely have no perspective for the future. They, as you want to show them, do not represent a guideline of valid economic relations and do not stem from real social conditions and social opportunities. This package of laws only shows that we Serbian radicals were right when we criticised you all this time, when we warned the public in a pre-election campaign -- what this DOS government would lead to. The tax on goods and services, according to this proposal, is far from caring for the standard of living, as you wish to show, without talking about the economic and social function of the promised transition reform. The economic effects of this type of definition of transport tax policy are neither in the function of economic growth, development and employment, on the contrary, will cause negative effects in these spheres. It is also a questionable tax base, tax rate, as well as payment of sales taxes on goods and services. It is unacceptable to define that this bill meets the criteria and directly contributes to neutrality, as you say, transparency, tax fairness, as it stands in these reasons for the adoption of the law. The SRS does not accept the view that the systematic definitions of the reconstruction of the monetary system and the economic recovery of Yugoslavia, its inclusion in European and world organisations, as an essential prerequisite, requires a fundamental and root fiscal reform, which will be in the direction of these movements, and the first stage represents exactly this proposed package of tax laws. You also state that in the reasons for the adoption of this law. Although the main objective of this bill is to raise funds with an adequate monthly, semi-annual, annual fiscal policy, and the specific role of the Serbian government in establishing a new public spending policy, it is also credited with a reform character, which it does not contain. My specific amendment concerns, above all, the exemption from the tax of certain categories, which is in Article 11(1) of point 5, that the product tax is not paid on products supplied under the conditions of reciprocity by diplomatic and consular representations, foreign diplomatic staff and consular officials, on the basis of the specific approval of the federal body responsible for foreign affairs, as well as in the cases provided for in the international contract. So we can peel the people's skin, but diplomats, who are in a situation where they can pay these taxes, we can't touch them, because we can say Milan St. Protic has to pay a big tax in America, although America does not worry much about the conditions of reciprocity, that Vesna Pesic has to pay some taxes, although even in Mexico they don't care what happens in Serbia. Therefore, gentlemen, this way of thinking about taxes, I think it may be a condition related to some standards in the European Union, but you better think about this people here, who have no place to pay your taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2915	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 122, no one abstained, 10 voted, a total of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Jovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The MP is not present. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 117, no one abstained, not 17, a total of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vatovic. The Financial Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the bearer want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 113, one abstention did not vote 11, a total of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijailovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2916	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11(1) to add points 15 and 16, which means that medicines for the humane use of tax exemptions, prosthetic and orthopaedic means, sanitary means and all those funds for which their payment from compulsory health insurance funds is provided. I think this is a logical amendment. Why would they tax something and take something back from the Health Insurance Fund, because you know how our pharmacies are empty and our patients want to get a cure, because according to the Health Protection Act they have the right to do so and therefore I ask that this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2917	The word has Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2918	I'd like to be quite open, as always, to talk about this issue that is very important, because if the government said that health care is one of the four priorities of this budget, of course when we talk about medicines, orthopedic and other aids, we need to take a very close look at what's going on. However, when the election took place whether to exempt from the sales of medicines, orthopedic and other aids or tax them, we came to the next finding and proposal, which I would still like to propose to you tonight and support, or possibly withdraw your amendment. We've had recent years and many years of getting rid of all the drugs and it's clear that the drugs were absolutely gone. What's the problem? The problem is, as we have seen in the last few days, that this segment of our society and how it has been criminalized, that those drugs that have been bought for the Health Fund have been located, they do not know how, but often in these private pharmacies, and it can be said that this example equally proves that the tax does not solve the problem of some other policy. It ecldentically shows that it is not possible to run health policies through politics, that tax policies cannot be governed by social policy, but the best way to conduct tax policies is to ensure, and then, on a dissipated side, through a law that provides something for a target group of additional rights that the state then maintains and in the domain of drugs and orthopedic and other aids, we actually have that protection. It is the Health Protection Act and let me remind you of this Article 7 which is actually quite well done and which gives special rights, not only protection from any change in sales tax, but from any price of medicines for the next target groups. These are children up to 15 years of age, school children and students up to 26 years of age, women related to pregnancy, childbirth and motherhood, persons over 65 years of age, disabled and disabled persons, unemployed persons, materially unsecured persons and members of their families, users of permanent financial assistance. Further, individuals related to the protection and treatment of infectious diseases, malignancies, diabetes, haemophilia, mental illness, cerebral paralysis, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoc fever, hypertension, coronary and cerebral vascular diseases, and other individuals related to the provision of emergency, or emergency health care. Then, the health care of these individuals includes vaccinations, emergency medical attention, medical examinations and treatment and medications according to the list of medicines and medical indications, getting orthopaedic aids according to established disability, etc. It seems to me at this point when we leave a deep criminal system and continue to release these drugs and orthopaedic aids, it would be in some way acknowledging that this new government will not be able to pass this law and that it will not be able to provide precisely for these target groups to exercise their rights, which means the proposal tonight is that this amendment is withdrawn. But believe that of all the funds next week and next months, they have to show whether we need to look back at matter and, believe me, we're going to look very pragmatically at things and react very quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2919	I am withdrawing this amendment in the hope that what Minister Djelic said will come true because it was my primary goal to hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2920	I find that MP Mijailovic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 11. The amendment was submitted by MP Zivko Selakovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2921	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to you for two reasons to clarify my amendment to Article 11 point 14. Bio diesel is produced by the processing of raw vegetable oil, namely oilseed rapes, and is found in increasing application in diesel engines around the world. Since the word itself speaks of what it's derived from, oily tails, it also has an ecological character. We know that everything in the world that protects the environment, that is, the protection of the human environment, is tax-free. So this type of fuel everywhere in European countries, and even in the United States, is not subject to taxation. This same fuel, or energy, is produced by us in five factories. It directly encourages agricultural production. For the reason that it is ecological and encouraging agricultural production, this fuel is also the old Transport Tax Act, in Article 32, point 20, the same thing was exempt from sales taxes. For the reasons set out, ecology, improvement of agricultural production, this has led me to propose this amendment, to continue to release this fuel from sales tax. The text of the amendment would read - the energy fuel biodiesel from renewable resources and the biodiesel premium. That would be the composition of that amendment I submitted. As a member of the Committee on Ecology and a member of the Committee on Agriculture, Duty and Morality, I am required to vote for something like this. I would like to point out in particular, as deputy president of the Soviet Parliament's group, when it comes to improving agriculture, the Soviet Union is also behind the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2922	If no one ever answers for a word again, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 103 abstentions, two did not vote 13, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Sredoje Mihajlov. The Ambassador of Sredoje Mihail has withdrawn the amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as I know, the government was supposed to accept this amendment. It is a sales tax on livestock and components used in the production of livestock. So I'd like to hear the government's opinion. Also, I was on a Finance Committee and the chairman of the Finance Committee informed me that the government had partially accepted this amendment. Does that mean it's an integral part of the government's proposal? Yeah. Then, okay. Now that I'm here, I can see that a lot of those tensions hit Santa's, then Wednesday the Duke's turn, so I hope that tension is also in Batajnica. I look forward to it. Speaking of cattle and taxes, after some of your exposure, I wonder -- God, what kind of cattle do we peasants feed and pay for that human activity?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2924	If I understand correctly, you have withdrawn this amendment. The government took him in part. I find that MP Marijan Risticevic withdrew the amendment to Article 11.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2925	You've hurt Article 99. The Rules of Procedure, which says that the MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. I like Marijan Risticevic and he's a friend of mine, but from this pay phone to pose such threats, it's not delicious. I know that you have a tendency to poetry and that you've spoken everything in the verse before, everything in the prose. It's always a good deal of money, and for this one, you're done.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2926	I really didn't hear. If I had heard it, if it were said, I would have warned him and the warning would have been entirely relevant. I can't apologize for him. Really, I didn't hear. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2928	I have submitted an amendment to Article 11. The law and I demand that new points 15 and 16 be added. In point 15. would stand - sales taxes are released school textbooks and school supplies for primary, secondary, higher and higher education. In point 16. - a textile confection is released for children up to 10 years old and children's shoes up to 36, which corresponds to that child's age. I've heard that a large number of colleagues, at least as we talked in the hallway, support this amendment and are ready to vote. I do not expect to be supported by MPs who have certain proclivities, which can not lead to children, on either side or on the other. I don't expect the amendment to support the Prophetic, because that man really can't understand anything. I don't expect Popovic to support it, because he just ran to beat Lunet, who proposed the release of medicines from sales taxes. In the end, I do not expect my amendment to support fools Risticevic, but I expect from all hosts who have children who have families to support this amendment. (President: Please do not use such expressions. If you already blame others for primitiveism, then don't be primitive yourself. How did you hear that? I'm surprised you heard this, and you just didn't hear Rističević. I expect these lovely grandmothers will probably not support this amendment. I don't expect a candidate for mayor of Belgrade to support this amendment, because by noon he hates himself and the whole world.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2929	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2930	The amendment was submitted to Article 11, to add point 15 after point 14), which essentially needs to exempt child's shoes, clothing, and baby's equipment. In some ways, the minister has already explained why the government cannot accept this amendment. The bottom line of that argument is that release of children's clothes and shoes is demagogy. In addition, there would be the possibility of favouring a richer part of the population, of buying cheaper children’s shoes and clothes or equipment for newborns. I do not know whether services, professional services have provided specific data, relevant data as well as the percentage and number of rich in this Republic of Serbia, and how many of them are below or on the edge of existence, which also have to provide clothing and footwear and equipment for newborns. I mean, exactly, that the minister placed one demagogue thesis, because you can't for that layer of extremely rich from 5 to 10% to ignore the material conditions of the majority that is poor. Secondly, it is generally known that in this layer that is rich and which, in the Ministerial words, would earn some extra capital, is not a large number of children and is not a numerical family, but a Solomonic solution was offered by the government, which is to be paid through children's supplements and funds. So, simply looking at it, it's taken from these citizens first, and then it comes back to them through children's supplements and various funds. In life it would look like when a thief pulls your wallet out of your pocket, takes you to dinner, pays your money dinner, returns your wallet and asks for your gratitude for buying you dinner. That's how the government behaves. If the problem is to release taxes on children's shoes and clothing and equipment for newborns, then let the minister, as a percentage, make up costs and burden on the budget, rather than qualify such proposals as a demagogue. You know, aside from this problem that we have from day to day, there are more and more of those who can't provide shoes or clothes for children. And Serbia has one problem from before, a known white plague. Statistically, in the material we've received, it shows how many families there are with three, how many with two, and how many with one child. It's not a big number, it's not a big number, and it's good if nothing else, and it's like a political goodwill to show up at this government to help families who have children. Of course, children up to 15.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2931	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 115, no one abstained, 8 did not vote, a total of 144 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Obradovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. I put this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 110, no one abstained, 15 did not vote, a total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information has submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does a representative of the Committee want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For three, against 112, five abstentions, 23 did not vote, a total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2932	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have proposed two amendments to point 11. Proposal for a tax law. Amendment 1 is about the release of certain products from taxes, which includes children's confection, school supplies, as well as other equipment for children. I believe that in order to stimulate birth in Serbia, this amendment should be adopted, because the cost of maintenance and one child are often inappropriate in the personal incomes that our workers have. Amendment 2 releases tax-sanitary material in which we can place even children's diapers. Mr. Secretary explained why he didn't release his taxes. But I'm surprised, because children's diapers can't be obtained on prescriptions, and it's completely illogical not to be tax-free, so I think these amendments should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2933	I am putting the amendment of MP Veroljub Arsic to the vote. For 18, against 111 abstentions, two did not vote 13, a total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Guduric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The promoter is not present. Please let us be clear about this amendment. For 18, against 108, the abstentions were not voted by 17, a total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milos Nesovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 109 abstentions, there were no votes, 17, a total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 19, there are no 112 abstentions, no 12 votes, a total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 108, the abstentions were not voted by 17, a total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 11, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2934	Listen to me well, MPs of DOS , don't take a nap, member of the 11th of this law, listen to me well, member of the 11th of this bill, so define which products are not subject to sales tax. [[elevator in the O.R.]] For the sake of citizens, it is defined what will not be collected on April 1st. With my amendment, I suggested that the 1st April should not collect edible oil -- you were seen by people who voted, watch out for good -- so I suggested not to collect edible oil, baby food, baby clothes and shoes and school supplies. If, DOS MPs, you vote against this amendment, you voted for edible oil, baby food, baby clothes and shoes and school supplies to collect 20%. Your voters will pay this item by 20% more expensive on April 1st. Chick, vote against this amendment now. The people are watching you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2935	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put to the vote the amendments of MP Miroljub Veljkovic. For 21, against 104 abstentions, there was no vote of 14, with 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, your conduct not only does you disrespect Serbian radicals, but you do not respect the government you have chosen. Secondly, you don't respect this Serbian public who's watching you right now and who's supposed to bring some judgment about you. In Article 11, paragraph 1, after point 14, add the following points: 15. all types of textbooks and school supplies; 16 all kinds of children's shoes and clothing; 17 medicines and medical remedies; 18 orthopedic aids; 19 production and distribution of water and heat. Now I'm going to explain it. 15. So, if there's a tax on textbooks and school supplies in the present time, because of the lack of means to live, they won't have enough resources for schooling. Without knowledge, there is no progress and no improvement. 16. In order to increase the birth rate in the current situation, this would be a modest contribution for young people to think about the present and the future of this country, and should therefore be freed from taxation. 17. Medicines and medical means should be freed from taxation because in the current situation, by the fall of social standards, most residents are unable to buy the cure. Most drugs are bought. 18. The orthopaedic aids must be free of the sales tax, because they are used by those whose fight for life and work is great. 19. The budget of citizens will be even more burdened, even so modest, by water taxation and heating. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2937	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 105, there were no abstentions, there was no vote 21, out of 142 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 11th amendment were submitted by MPs Zivodarka Dacin and Milan Stankovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? They're not here. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 107, there were no abstentions, no 22 votes, of a total of 143 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Zivanko Radovanchev. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not here. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 110, there were no abstentions, there was no 24 vote, out of 145 members of parliament. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 12th amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2938	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 12 says that the sales tax on services is paid with compensation. And under the services, it is considered, among other things, a large-scale product transport service. In Article 15, the legislator explains what a tax on product services is on a large scale. He says it's a price difference. The price difference is a category which is taxed as a profit on the deduction of business costs. And, taxing her at this stage represents double taxation. This member of the law is directly contrary to the basics of the Transport Tax Act. Since they obviously don't listen, I'll repeat all this, and then I'll do it again. I told you this was double taxation. I told you that with all the countries in the world of Malta, we have contracts or agreements to prevent double taxation. This is where it's done. At this stage. It also takes place in a phase where the price difference is expressed as a profit of the company. I told you this is in direct contrast to the tax system's founding law. Do you understand now? Great.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2939	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 102, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29, out of 146 members of parliament. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2940	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, under the proposal of the Transport Tax Act, almost everything is taxed and even water. All the things about living needs, in broad consumption, besides life-saving foods, such as bread, milk, meat, if not meat of that bar beans, should be freed from taxes on traffic. It also needs to be free of sales taxes on textbooks, school supplies, children's clothing and shoes, and free students, students and pensioners in the field of transport services. With this bill, taxpayers become even newborns, as they also need to pay sales taxes for them, such as diapers, gasoline and others. With this law, Serbia is turning into a tax and reform state. The government's proposal shows that these taxes are the only source of income, instead of production effects, which are currently not available. Instead of encouraging and stimulating a private initiative, which employs a number of citizens, this law also chokes production and the private sector. Compared to the internal transport of passengers in traffic, there is an increase in ticket prices by 20%, jeopardising the interests of students, students, pensioners and other public transport workers. Many students and students travel, workers and other citizens are directly threatened and affecting their standards. PTT services are also increasing, and this is one of the most used communications of our citizens. This will result in a significant collection of these services, which represents an attack on our citizens' pockets. Ladies and gentlemen, let our citizens know, since the assembly majority has not accepted any amendments to the SRS, it turns out that you will vote on ideal tax laws and budgets. That's why we won't bear the blame. We have taken everything from the Serbian Radical Party that we have been able to point to numerous problems waiting for our citizens in Serbia, as well as huge taxes. To mention, in 2000, the budget was 32 billion. This year's budget is 130 billion. This will pay citizens through bills they should expect soon. Now the citizens need to know who's to blame for the bills they're waiting for, and who's gonna be enormously tall. Many will regret, according to DOS, radical obstruction of radical amendments. I believe that the amendments were very correct, and that they pointed to a number of problems and that they should have been accepted, and I repeat again, the government has taken over the assembly role, because everything the government has proposed and everything the government has refused, MPs in the National Assembly accept. I believe that MPs must pay more attention to their status and their legislative role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2941	Since no one has answered the floor, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 105, there were no abstentions, no 25 votes, a total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vatovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the Proposer mean a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I put this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 101, the abstention of four, was not voted 24, a total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not here. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I put to the vote the amendments of MP Dragan Tomic. For 15, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 14, a total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 12th amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the promoter want a word? There is a word from MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2942	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12, point 14. to delete. At point 14, we have a broadcast of tones and images. You probably know for yourself that most of the owners, who hold media to broadcast media and images, have, above all, temporary permits, although a small number has a permanent license. Since June, a new frequency contest has been announced and the status of those who have temporary permits needs to be resolved above all. Elaborates have already been sent and accepted, only to be respected above all. There is no respect for the equipment, because in any case the requirement to be technically fine should be respected, but we also know that most of the owners have a lot of out-of-date equipment. First of all, we need to know that each owner needs to have a frequency lease, i.e. the use of ether, and that depends primarily on the frequency it covers, the number of residents who can listen or observe the image that is being broadcast, as well as the underdevelopment of the municipality in that part. In addition to this frequency lease, in any case, a fee for broadcast films must be paid, and a completely different fee is paid for foreign films, especially a different fee for domestics. Then, copyrights are needed to broadcast music, as well as income tax. Federal Telecommunications Minister Boris Tadic has even announced the possibility that only one programme, i.e. informative, or cultural or commercial, will be allowed to be broadcast. In any case, it will hardly be possible to realise, because no cell that does not have a commercial program will be able to survive, for the simple reason that only this allows for certain compensation and profit during such work. All right, there are some requirements, such as that each medium has its own program of several hours, and that's fine, because, in any case, if they're not able to broadcast their own program for a few hours, they shouldn't even exist. I'm just afraid that because, mostly on all televisions, we can see only DOS news broadcasts, i.e. those representing primarily DOS parties, all the time on TV, are only represented, and I'm afraid that these small media, which own small local municipalities, and that in any case helped many of the DOS authorities to come to power, that now in this way they're not trying to contain and that, since RTS is now owned, in the right sense of the word, DOS, that they're thus disabling some opposite and different opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2943	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 118, there were no abstentions, there were no 11 votes, a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2944	In the previous article, I already said that the price difference achieved is taxed as a profit and that taxation at this stage represents double taxation. I've already told you it's contrary to the tax system's founding law. You didn't want to hear it on the previous article, and you probably won't even hear it on this article. Most products, especially those excise ones, are sold today with an invoiced sales tax. I'll explain that plastic to you. If I buy one kilo of magut for a dinar and sell it for a dinar and ten bucks, you can't charge me a tax on that 10 money at this point in time. You can charge it to me as a corporate tax and that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2945	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 110, no one abstained, no 23, a total of 144 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2946	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the Proposal for a Law on Transport Tax, delete Article 16. So that's actually the rate of sales tax and it's 17% plus three percent for the military, that's 20%. If it is taken that the rate of taxation for services from 12% went to 20%, and the trade goods from 28% went to 20%. So it can be seen that production works, crafts houses and all production branches are at risk with this sales tax. This is the rate you seem instimulative and non-productive. I'm afraid with this tax and at this rate many trades will be closed, and many workers will be out of a job. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on trade goods with 28%, a 20% rate is proposed. So most trading houses are protected at this rate. The government hereby stimulates the work of non-productive enterprises. Perhaps the model of transition countries, Hungary, Romania, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, whose economies have failed, and the production halls of these countries serve as warehouses for smuggled goods. The workers are on the streets, the crime is growing, prostitution is growing, the smuggling is booming, that's what the government wants from us and that's why I suggest we keep an old rate of 12%.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2947	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 16, against 114, no one abstained, no one voted 12, a total of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2948	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I felt that the submission of such an amendment required that the rate of sales be reduced for reasons which are numerous and many of them brought out Serbian Radical Party MPs talking about their amendments, and this kind of behaviour of the ruling DOS, the promoter and you who are completely uninterested in some of your euphoria, laughter, sleep, drowsiness you spend time tonight and throughout the afternoon, Serbian citizens should certainly know, and I believe that many of them continue to follow the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that the only MPs of the Serbian Radical Party are through the discussion of this law and, in principle and now in particular, pointing to the fact that we in Serbia today, in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, we have an incompetent, non-national and already corrupt government of the DOS. We have a government that doesn't care what happens to our country, what happens to the people and who can pay these tax rates. You, gentlemen of the so-called. The DOS, so grouped into your parliamentary groups, and we hear that they will now be more than that DOS, that you will start with separation, and that very soon there will be a disintegration and such coalition, you have only had the goal of misleading citizens and of false promises to gain their trust in the elections, in order to get them through the taxation of basic life supplies, food products, all that is necessary for preschool and school age children, what it takes to support those children with such salaries, and very small parents, you may find it all funny, and during that time chairing this Assembly, Mr. Marsicanin seems to have problems with himself, when he could have two hours ago, when I didn't respond, that he realized that he might have ghosts in the hall. Mr. Martian, if you have any problems, if you're seeing any or any of them, this is already the time when midnight approaches, keep your concentration, calm down the dissipated MPs, and yet you don't have DOS quorum sitting in the hall. Keep in mind with your citizens' behaviours that you are not worthy of the trust you have gained and that you will become the past with a very fast will of the people, and that ugly past.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2949	If no one ever answers for a word again, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 96, the abstentioned were not voted 34, a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was submitted by MPs Miroljub Veljkovic and Ljubomir Kragovic in the same text. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted these amendments. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2950	Mr. President, since your MPs are having a very good time in the buffets, I ask you to establish a quorum, send avaza to collect them and then continue to do as God commands.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2951	Please insert your identification cards. We have a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2952	Members of the DOS, firstly to realize that you disobeyed me and voted to collect edible oil, children's clothing and shoes and school supplies from April 1st. I warned you not to vote. It's going to be 20 percent since April 1st. Listen to me very carefully, MPs of the DOS. In Article 16, I suggest that the rate of tax on the marketing of services is 12, not 17%. So, I'm warning you, from April 1st, they'll be picking up 20% haircuts, shoe repairs, transportation, student excursions, school canteens, student cafeterias, phones, electricity, gas, catering services, letters, television, etc. I suggest that you accept the amendment and that instead of 20% of this expensive service, paid by citizens and your voters, you accept this amendment and collect it by 12%. I'm calling you again, vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2953	If no one ever answers for a word again, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 122 abstentions, there was no vote of 6, a total of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Marko Culibrk in the same text. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: What do you mean by applicants? We didn't take it together. You should ask each other. Who are you going to give your word to first? One and the other. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Who are you asking first? ) First I ask Mark Culibrk (not present). Does Tomislav Nikolic want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2954	Dearly delighted MPs of the DOS, eliminated, fascinated, satisfied, as you haven't been in the last 11 years, tonight I took the opportunity to go to Arangelovac on a TV show, and there's a huge difference compared to just a few days ago in viewer issues. Until a few days ago, I was largely resented what we did while we were in government, and now they're asking, Mr. Nikolic, what does DOS do to us? I say, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you can scream, scream, stare, arlaucate, this is the law that collects all the products in the Republic of Serbia. It stays behind this law. It will be forgotten how you yelled, and how you warned me, and what I was saying, but on the day this law comes into force, and when the citizens find themselves on all the stores, there will be no sign of this law. The trail is terrible. You didn't want anything taxed. You don't even need the press. You've now taxed the press like we've never taxed. You have not granted them the right to a deficit in the form of a remittende, you have not recognised school supplies, textbooks, you will not release the sales tax that must be released. We have now reached the sales tax of services, and instead of 9 out of one dictatorial authority, the sales tax on services went to 17% of the democratic government. If anyone asks you, gentlemen, why do you vote like that, you'll say we belong to DOS. If someone asked you what it takes to be a sales tax, you'd imagine it, because your minister doesn't know it. He landed on a plane from several foreign countries a few days before he came to defend this budget. He's gonna take the plane. You'll stay here and explain to the neighbors how it happened to win after so many years and collect everything. Good for you, when you're not ashamed. I've voted several times in this assembly... (President: I ask you not to throw it away immediately.) Sometimes free at times, I was sometimes convinced that I was doing good, sometimes I did not, but I never voted when I was convinced that I was doing bad. I've never voted for a decision that was bad. And you've been voting here for five days for bad decisions. You're aware that decisions are bad. You're aware that citizens have nothing to fill your budget. The budget doesn't smell like you're going to raise taxes, it's going to increase production. At least your minister knows that. You ladies and gentlemen would now like to import whiskey, take it to the store, pay you customs, excises and taxes, tax on transportation services, and now all of us to drink whiskey, so you can fill the budget. Otherwise, you can't fill the budget any other way. What kind of service tax? What services will you charge taxes on? I'm talking about the amendment, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I can't talk to the government. First, there is no government here, and secondly, the minister is completely unrelated to Serbia. He doesn't care about this. To him, this experiment is like Russia, like all other countries in transition. They'll go to the next country with one more experience. Where are you staying? None of you, and I, at least I know you well, none of you bear any blame for this. You're not dirty yet. Why are you making fun of me now? For Serbian citizens, you are anonymous persons, and now you will only become famous, those whom people will recognize on the street, as well as those who have been in power so far. What do you need, ladies and gentlemen, MPs? This is not a law for France, this is a law for Serbia. Please accept the amendment and do yourself a great favor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2955	I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 19, against 116, no one with abstention voted 15, a total of 150 MPs were present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not there. Here you go, Mr. Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2956	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I walked towards this speaker, there was more to the drive that we should not discuss on this subject. I don't know if we all agree on that. However, I think when it comes to the service tax and the rate prescribed, this time I do not speak the opinion of either the party or the applicant of this amendment, the reactions to such a high rate of tax on services are everywhere and in every place, we have had a lot of contact with the citizens and they are all simply shocked by such a high rate. What will be the consequences, will be seen soon. A big problem is expected, first at tax on services, because services are still most suitable to avoid tax obligations on them. Under the conditions of reduced economic activity, it is certain that the volume of services is also reduced. The costs of those legal natural persons providing services are not reduced. So there will certainly be chain reactions and increased taxes on services will increase the prices of many products. Because of all of this, we can only conclude that the salaries have increased by only 36% in the previous three months, and that the growth of the service tax is proposed practically by 100%. Because of that, we suggest that this rate be 8%, and when a federal tax of 3% is added to that, that's 11%. Under these conditions, the state would have permanent and secure sources of income through the service tax and there would certainly be much less avoidance. Again, the impact on the budget would not be significant nor would it be a blow, given that this item in the budget is not that big. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2957	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 113, there were no abstentions, no 12 votes, a total of 148 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. Since the Finance Committee has adopted this amendment, I find that the amendment of the Government has become an integral part of the bill. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Since the applicant for the amendment is not present, does the representative of the group want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2958	Thank you, Mr. President. In Article 17(2), following all the services listed which are not subject to sales tax, we propose adding services in agriculture. This item is really insignificant and does not affect the inflow into the budget, and it is certain that it would contribute a great deal and a great deal to agricultural producers, since we have found that they did not get what they expected and what they deserve by their work and engagement and what they gave to this country. If we add that in agriculture we have time-consuming machinery, a high fuel price, virtually loses any motivation to do services in agriculture. I think this is one item that really has no reason to be included in the services on which the sales tax is paid. Also, one very important item is passenger transport services in urban and suburban buses, trams and trolley buses. The tax on these services listed has been introduced, although so far it has not been paid and it is certain that it will significantly affect the cost of life. And we know that city public transport uses those social categories that are most endangered and whose item represents a significant cost in the home budget. The amendment proposes that these services continue to be exempt from tax payments, and we believe that if there is an increase in the rate and in this area, in addition to all those increases in prices expected by our citizens, it will be a major blow. In addition to the expected benefits, we think we should accept this amendment. We also believe that our citizens are burdened by all those taxes that await them in the coming days and that this is the final concession for which we pray on their behalf, not on their own behalf, or on behalf of the party, but on behalf of those citizens directly hit by this regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2959	I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 13, against 107, one abstention, did not vote 19, a total of 140 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2960	Mr. President, you've really deeply offended me by calling me and the MPs of the SRS that we're "spirits." Not because of your opinion, which I don't care about, but because we've worked hard and hard at this meeting, fighting to convince you not to pass the laws you're making. What would it look like, say, for example? I quite rightly say that this one next to you is a bat. Or should I say that the MP group of DOS is vampires. I have evidence for that, and first of all, because this guy next to you is always flaunting and scaring the SRS parliamentary group. For the DOS parliamentary group, I guess now it's known that everyone is "bloods" and that they want to "suck out the last drop of blood from this nation." So this amendment, which I am submitting, is precisely to prevent as much as possible from sucking out Serbian blood from citizens, the people of Serbia. The amendment to Article 17(3) should bring about the exemption of taxes on water. In this article, I suggested that tax obligations be released of 17% and plus 3% of the special tax, for water supply and water treatment of purified and used water. The introduction of a tax liability of 17% and a special 3% tax would bring businesses dealing with these affairs, water supplying citizens and the removal of purified and used water, even more difficult. This is especially because of the unpaid bills, the aggregates in the water industry. A citizen of users, with this intrusion on water, in addition to all other gatherings, the law would further away from normal, existential needs. While in other European countries water is also subsidized, and special brigades, about environmentalology, which is, of course, a source of health, this comparison of water, the state would show how much it cares about European standards, and this very important area, which is closely related to the health and protection of citizens, justifies the submission of the amendment. I expect all MPs of the National Assembly to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2961	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 115, there are no abstentions, there are no 16 votes, and a total of 148 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Before we move on to the next amendment, let me remind you that we agreed to work today until 2400 hours, with the possibility of an extension of work. That's what we have to decide. Any suggestions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2962	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, given today's decision, and given that we have lost a lot of time in these few days and political propaganda, to bickering, while at the same time calling for citizens' responsibility and limiting future taxpayers, I suggest that tonight we work, given that there is not much left, until the end of the agenda, to enable our citizens, especially taxpayers, to prepare themselves during the weekend, to carry out the list, given that there are fewer taxes, that as of Monday many prices are lower and that our citizens can feel the results. So, I propose work until the session is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2963	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a proposal to work until 2400 hours, as we agreed this morning, to allow citizens to use the money they have at home to buy some more items at a cheaper price. This law will come into force on April 1st, and everything will be more expensive. The one who's lying, to apologize from this pay phone to the citizens he's cheating on right now. If that's me, I'll come for the pay phone and apologize. If that's you, then you've only been embarrassed to show up for this pay phone since you've been an MP. You came out here to deceive the citizens of Serbia that by applying this law, everything will be cheaper. Please, in my next amendment, I would like to warn you that from now on, the neighbor's services, when they break his field, will have a 17% sales tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2964	The Minister, Mr Djelic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2965	Dear MPs, I know it's late, and one thing I'd like to ask you on behalf of the government, to continue the discussion tonight until the end of the agenda for two reasons. The first reason is because, indeed, in order for a new sales tax to be implemented neatly, the best thing for our citizens to do the list is on Sunday, which means it has to be published tomorrow and in that case this goes on Monday. This morning, as I mentioned, I think a little earlier, we had a meeting with all the major companies and networks in the country, and they said without a problem there would be no major price changes next week. The second reason may be just as important, today I received a call from the inside, from the local self-government and the 6th point of the agenda is absolutely necessary for them to meet tomorrow and vote the budget, because tomorrow is the last day to do so and have regular funding from April 1st. So many of them expect it to work. Thank you in advance. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2966	We actually have one proposal to keep working until the session is over. I would ask the Proposer to correct that proposal, because, truth be told, this session can't be over anyway. I'll tell you why he can't. The debate and the vote of law can be concluded, but the session cannot be concluded because we have the final item of the agenda - MPs' issues. Since we have no conditions to ask parliamentary questions, because there is no government to answer these questions, we can't finish the session anyway. Before you suggest anything, read the Rules of Procedure. Now I ask you to correct the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2967	It's done with the eighth point of the agenda. You got a call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2968	I'm putting the motion to vote, to be done by the end of the eighth item of the agenda. For 124, against six, abstention three, did not vote 17, a total of 150. I figure it'll work until the eighth point of the agenda is over. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop - Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs of the SRS are clearly speaking to the deaf today. You're deaf to all our suggestions. You're dealing with some other stories here in the MPs' benches, if anyone's been arrested, hasn't been arrested, where he is, some... Like Leila, she yells - thank God, I've welcomed her after 11 years, and this one that looks like Lenin tells me - you'll be arrested too. Well, sir, I'd love to see you arrest me. As regards this amendment, consistent with my previous amendment, which I have submitted to Article 11 paragraph 1 of point 5, which I have explained, believing that we should not exempt from the sales tax of diplomatic and consular representations, I have submitted the amendment and to a member whom you also release diplomatic and consular representations from service taxes. You know what, if I can pay my taxes, if the handyman who comes into my house to fix my washing machine has to pay taxes on it and, of course, account for my cost, I don't care if Vesna Pesic has to pay sales taxes when she changes her shoes, if she changes them at all. So, don't worry about whether you're getting rid of sales taxes, service taxes, that part of the population that's socially endangered, but you're doing some demagogue, so the minister here says it's not a social category tax. We'll make it up to the citizens through social aid. Now we're all going to wait for social aid that's 1,000 dinars a year so we can buy our kids shoes. If I, gentlemen, have three children, so the sales tax is 20%, then the service tax is 17%, so I have to put them on, put them on, get textbooks, and you didn't make sure to free the citizens of the tax on that stuff and you didn't think about it, so you don't even think about birth in this country. You don't care what nature it will be. Your goal is to keep us as few as possible. You don't have any program that could possibly be dealt with by the government, how do we improve the birth rate, how do we stimulate parents to have children. I made mine until 1990. I support them as I can and can, but you here, there are plenty of young people, I ask you how many of you there are one, two, and most of you probably don't have any children. Now, that is the problem of this Serbia and that is the problem of the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2970	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For nine, against 102 abstentions, there was no vote of 34, out of 145 of the national MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not here. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 108, there were no abstentions, no vote was taken 26, of a total of 144 members of parliament. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17 amendments were submitted by MP Aleksandar Vatovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2971	Since the amendment refers to the exemption from the taxes on municipal services, and the government has submitted an amendment proposing that public services should not be paid tax until 31 December 2001, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2972	I find that MP Aleksandar Vatovic withdrew the amendment to Article 17. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2973	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, I didn't want to spoil anything in this bill at all. I just wanted to remind you that in the campaign, you promised to lift the charges on fairies, taxes, cuts, cuts. And what I am asking by amendment to be exempt from the tax on services has so far been exempt from the tax on the marketing of services. So, you, by law on sales of services, have taxed the traffic of services that have not been taxed so far, so since you said you wouldn't steal, that you would create much more income than those who have been in power so far, but we, then you don't need new additional taxes. All you have to do is make pre-election promises. It's interesting what you are, or what you've introduced to the sales of services. You've introduced a tax on agricultural services for land processing. Did any of you think about what kind of a farm service it is to process the land? It's a favor to you when the neighbors come to help you bathe the corn, they come to the phone... You're done for tonight when you heard about that arrest, you're not gonna do it again. [[growls]] You want to do it again? When a man picks up neighbors on his cell phone to bathe in corn and they start digging in the sun, a financial inspector comes in and says: a tax on services for this corn bath. When a neighbor's neighbor processes the country with a tractor, a tax collector comes in and says he pays taxes on this processing. Keep an eye on the last item of my amendment - the tax on construction services. In our houses, we're made with a wave on our cell phone, because we don't have the money to pay construction contractors to build us houses, and that way we don't even have new laws, I don't know if anyone pointed out that while I wasn't there, we don't even have the right to be exempt from taxes on construction material. Because we're tax-free only if it's reproductive material. And he's only that if he gets it from a registered company to do the work. If a citizen goes to buy construction material, he'll pay his sales tax even though he has a building permit, and now that the neighbors get together to help whitewash the board, you'll say, the six of you that's concrete, the service tax to this poor man who's building the house. Well, that's your authority. Well, you've really made it all the way. Be careful what the high minister says - he says: "Let's finish it tonight, so that tomorrow we can make a list of shops." It's Sunday tomorrow, so how can Mr. Minister keep a list? Someone should have told them they were at the store this morning. How can he tell them, when this law is not yet passed, how can he tell them when the President of the Republic has not signed it yet, how can he tell them when it is not yet published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia"? It can't be, Minister, it's not the straw of alaibe, it's the rule of law. He can't, at least what kind of hiduks came to power, so there's some constitution and a law-guaranteed procedure. Here, I suggest you wash some of your consciences, so release the sales tax on this service that I have stated to you in the amendment, I'll forgive you a little.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2974	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 17, against 95, there were no abstentions, they did not vote 32, a total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. (Serb Radical Party emissaries leave the session. I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum to work with. We've got quorum. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sredoje Mihajlov. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. There's no sign of an amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 106, there were no abstentions, no vote 15, a total of 130. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Rada Bajic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. There's no sign of an amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For seven against 116, a abstention one, did not vote 7, a total of 131. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Bora Stanimirovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 7, against 119, there were no abstentions, there was no 7. A total of 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For seven against 117 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Rada Bajic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For seven against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of seven, a total of 135. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milos Nesovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For seven against 118, no one abstained, 10 voted, a total of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 21st amendment. The Financial Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 7 against 118, one abstention, 9 did not vote, a total of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. Since the Finance Committee has accepted this amendment, I find that the amendment of the Government has become an integral part of the Law. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 30th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. By 7, against 120, one abstention, did not vote 8, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 30th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. In 7, versus 120, no one abstained, no 9 votes, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. The Financial Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For seven against 115, no one abstained, 15 voted, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Jovic submitted to the 47th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. In 7, versus 120, no one abstained, no voted 10, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 7, versus 109, no one abstained, no voted 20, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 53rd amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 7, against 122, no one abstained, no vote was made by 8, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. Since the Finance Committee has adopted this amendment, I find that the amendment of the Government has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed the examination of the bill in particular and the decision on amendments, does the representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. I am voting on the proposal for a law on sales tax in general. For 125, against 7, no one abstained, no vote was taken by 6, a total of 138 MPs. In doing so, the National Assembly passed the Law on transport tax in general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Arrivals and Public Expenses You have adopted a bill, which has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Branislav Pomorički, Ljubomir Mucic, Zoran D. Nikolic and Zarko Obradovic, as well as the amendment of the Finance Committee. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted an untimely amendment to Article 2. The draft law, submitted on 28 March 2001, contrary to Article 156(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You've received reports from the Finance Committee. Since the principled examination of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on public revenue and public expenditure in principle. For 122, against 7, no one abstained, no voted 8, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Zarko Obradovic submitted to the 4th amendment. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 7 against 123 abstentions, there was no vote of 8, a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ljubomir Mucic submitted to the 8th amendment. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 122 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, a total of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Financial Committee has tabled an amendment to Article 9(2). At a meeting of the Committee on Finance, a representative of the government accepted the amendment, making the amendment an integral part of the bill. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Branislav Pomorski. The Financial Committee rejected this amendment because it was contained in the amendment to this Committee, which was adopted by the proposing representative. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, a representative of the Government did not accept the amendment of the MP. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 118, the abstentioned one, was not voted 13, a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Pomorski. The Committee on Finance and a representative of the Government adopted this amendment at the Committee's session. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Committee on Finance and a representative of the Government, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 15th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. This amendment was rejected by the Committee on Finance and by a representative of the Government at the Committee's session. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 7 against 124 abstentions, 10 did not vote, a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular and the decision on amendments, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? He doesn't want to. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on public revenue and public expenditure in general. For 129 against 8, the abstentioned one, was not voted four, a total of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2975	We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the scale of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 2001. YOU have received the bill of law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Miroslav Markicevic, Dragan Kovacevic, Ljubodrag Grbić, Branislav Pomorijski, Dragan Marković, Zarko Obradović, Dragan Tomić, Rajko Baralić, Vladimir Garčević, Stevan Gudurić, Zoran D. Nikolic and Joca Arsic. You received a report from the Finance Committee. Since the principled review of this bill has been carried out in the context of a joint principled search, we move to a decision on the draft law in principle. For 126, against six abstentions, there were no 11 votes, a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Related amendments to Art. Points 2 and 3 and, subpoint 1, were submitted by MP Zarko Obradovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted these amendments. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 7, against 127, the abstentions were not, were not voted 9, a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments to Articles 2 and 3 and, points 4, were submitted by MP Branislav Pomorski. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted these amendments. Does he want a word? No, I don't. I am putting this amendment to the vote. The MP gave up the amendment. The amendments to point (b) of point (b) of Article 2 shall be related to each other to points 4, 16, 37, 60, 61, 91, 94 and 99, and to point (b) of Article 3 of sub-paragraph 4, 16, 38, 72, 73 110, 114 and 120, shall be submitted by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted these amendments. Does he want a word? No, I don't. I beg you to plead. For 7, against 123, a abstentioned no one, voted 14, a total of 144 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments to Article 2 b, sub-points 7, 40, 51, 75, 101 and 138, and to Article 3 b of sub-points 7, 45, 60, 92, 123 and 164 were submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted these amendments. Does he want a word? No, I don't. I beg you to plead. For 7, against 128, a abstentioned no one, voted 9, a total of 144 MPs present. I therefore find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments to Articles 2 and 3 b interrelated to each other were submitted by MP Stevan Guduric, sub-point 17. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted these amendments. Does he want a word? No, I don't. I beg you to plead. By 7, versus 125, a abstentioned no one, voted 12, a total of 144 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments to Articles 2 and 3 b interrelated, sub-point 29, were submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted these amendments. Does he want a word? No, I don't. I beg you to plead. For 7, against 128, a abstentioned no one, voted 8, a total of 143 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments to Article 2 b, sub-point 138 and point 3b were submitted to each other by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Dragan Kovacevic and Ljubodrag Grbić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted these amendments. Does he want a word? No, I don't. I beg you to plead. For 12, against 121 abstention, no one voted 9, a total of 142 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments to Article 2 b, sub-point 140 and Article 3b, under Rule 166 were submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted these amendments. Does he want a word? No, I don't. I beg you to plead. For 7, against 123, a abstentioned no one, voted 12, a total of 142 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments to Article 3 b, sub-points 41, 54, 95, 109, 111 and 133, were submitted by MP Dragan Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted these amendments. Does he want a word? No, I don't. I beg you to plead. For 8, against 126, the abstention of no one, voted 8, a total of 142 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments related to each other to Article 2b, point 145. National MP Vladimir Garčević submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted these amendments. Does he want a word? No, I don't. I beg you to plead. For 8, against 123, abstained no one, voted 12, a total of 143 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Proposal to add a new member. National MP Rajko Baralic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does he want a word? No, I don't. I beg you to plead. For 7, against 119, a abstention, no one voted 17, a total of 143 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Proposal to add a new member. National MP Rajko Baralic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 3b be added after Article 3. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does he want a word? No, I don't. I beg you to plead. For 7, versus 126, a abstentioned no one, voted 8, a total of 141 MPs present. Therefore, I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Branislav Pomoriški and Stevan Guduric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted these amendments. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. So, the Marines give up, he doesn't give up, and he has to give up Guduric. So, I'm voting on the amendment to Stevan Guduric. For seven against 124 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, a total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly did not accept the amendment of Stevan Guduric, and that MP Branislav Pomorski withdrew this amendment. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular and the decision on amendments, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2976	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2977	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I put to the vote the draft law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 2001 as a whole. For 130, against the 8 abstentions, there were no 5 votes, and a total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the proposal for a law on the volume of funds and the participation of municipalities and cities in sales tax in 2001. We move to the 7th item of the agenda - Proposal for a DECISION ON PEOPLE'S JOBS IN THE REGULAR COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA You have adopted a proposal for a decision, which has been taken by the Administrative Board. In accordance with Article 153 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 137, no one, with one abstention, voted eight, and a total of 146 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal unanimously. We move to the 8th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have adopted a proposal for a decision, made by Mr Branislav Ivković, president of the SPS parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 153 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single review of the motion for a decision. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering for a word, I conclude a unique search on this proposal. Can I get you a word? You're giving up? I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 116, against two, abstentions of 12, 15 did not vote, 145 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. This concludes the 8th point of the agenda. Just a little bit, you know what, just to make the decision again, we voted to finish with the 8th point of the agenda, and that's the opposite of that decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2978	I'm referring to article 191. Rules of Procedure. I believe that our decision was against the Rules of Procedure, as Article 191 provides for parliamentary questions to be asked as a rule, as the National Assembly ends its work on all points of the agenda. And, therefore, I think it would be in line with the Rules of Procedure to finish today's session with the 9th item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2979	Anybody else answer for a word? Any other suggestions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2980	Gentlemen, I don't think it would really be right to change our mind, especially if it was made with the suggestion of the President of the Assembly. Secondly, part of the opposition has come out, and there are really no conditions to continue the work, but to finish that act tomorrow, so before the opposition has any parliamentary questions, and they've come out with the knowledge that this item of the agenda will not be held.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2981	Since I wasn't all the time, I realized that we have a proposal to continue with the work and the ninth point. I would ask that we decide this way, in order not to change our decision, there is a possibility that I, as Parliament Speaker, will schedule a session that would end at the eighth point in five minutes, of course I would only ask if one of the MPs intends to ask a parliamentary question to make a statement. I think that would be correct, if someone intended to ask the government's present representatives to make a statement or to make a decision to refer the parliamentary issue to the written path, as the Rules of Procedure also envisaged. This would still be correct, and in this way we could continue our work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Dobrosavljevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2982	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the institution of the parliamentary issue serves primarily to refer the opposition in parliament to a certain issue. The ruling majority do not do so because the government is usually made up of ministers from its ranks. I don't think it would be correct for us to do this now, without the presence of a single opposition party, except for the Serbian Unity Party. That's why I think it would be appropriate to postpone this for another situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2983	Please, I wouldn't be opening up to this debate right now. So we had a proposal to amend the decision and make a new decision, which we will continue to work on with the ninth point of the agenda. Please let us be clear about this proposal. The alternative is to continue our work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. New proposal or...? Here you go. (Some of the MEPs: I suggest that we continue this session for next Monday, when the next regular session is scheduled, before that session. ) Please listen to all suggestions and make a decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2984	I guess what's been said so far is actually the only thing that's been disputed. It's that they're opposing two attitudes. I guess none of us need to ask any parliamentary questions today. On the other hand, it would be very incorrect for us to deprive any opposition of the possibility of it setting them up, and it certainly has motives and reasons. Just because they're out, I suggest we find out today that we're going to finish the session, because there are no parliamentary questions. I do not believe that their interests will be affected because seven days later they will be able to ask parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2985	Okay, we've confirmed that we have a proposal that we can decide on, which is to make a new decision that changes the decision we made at 23.55 minutes, to make a new decision about continuing to work on the ninth point of the agenda. I'll put that on a statement. I'm asking you to make this clear by voting. By the number of votes we'll see if we have a quorum, that's no problem. The suggestion is to continue our work. For 99, against 18, abstentioned four, 15 did not vote, a total of 136 MPs, confirming that we have a quorum. A total of 136 MPs voted, or so present. I find that we have made a decision to continue the work and the ninth item of the agenda. Let me remind you, according to Article 190. Rules of Procedure, the MP has the right to ask a parliamentary question to a single minister or government in their jurisdiction and it must be clearly formulated. I would also like to remind you that the presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. Who wants to ask a parliamentary question? Here you go, Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2986	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President, honourable fellow Members of the People, gentlemen of Ministers, is a matter for the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Interior of the Republic of Serbia. Under what circumstances was Mr. Milomir Stakic, former mayor of Prijedor arrested and implemented under what legal basis? We also asked that question on the Committee on Defence and Security, and I am glad that it is obviously the only committee that thinks with its own head and which has been asked by the Minister of the Interior by most votes. I think this is more of a question for the minister of justice, and that's why I'm asking him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2987	Thank you. As the justice minister is not present, the issue will be delivered to the justice and local self-government minister, Mr Batic, as well as to the interior minister, Mr Mihajlovic, to give answers in writing. Do any of the MPs have any other questions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2988	Dear colleagues, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by adopting a regulation on oil, promised to establish a parliamentary commission to monitor the implementation of the regulation and ask the government - When will the Assembly propose the establishment of such a parliamentary commission so that you can give a valid answer to a large number of economic issues?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2989	The answer to this question will also be given in writing by the competent ministry, and the issue will be delivered to answer. Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2990	Since in the process of preparing and proposing laws, those on the agenda today and expected at the next session, the government has not consulted the trade unions and thus confirmed the DOS's pledge in the pre-election campaign, on the care of the social partnership and social dialogue. In this way, the government has missed the opportunity to pass the entire course of this session, when it comes to the public, in a far better and more pleasant atmosphere.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2991	And Mr Gligoric's question will be delivered to answer in writing. He answered the word Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2992	Ladies and gentlemen, a question for the Prime Minister and all ministers, except for Mr Djelic - why are they not attending meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when issues of vital importance are being addressed for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Does this mean that they demean this assembly, does that mean they want to act as ministers of the previous government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-03-30-0.u2993	The issue will be delivered to the Prime Minister, as well as to all ministers, in order to provide answers in writing, except for Mr Djelic. If no one ever answers for a word again, we will conclude the first session of the First Regular Session. The second session is scheduled for Monday, April 9th.
