ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5347	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 189 MPs attend today's session. Please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have reported the absence of the following MPs: Ljubisa Djokovic, Branimir Trajkovic, Slavoljub Matić, Istvan Ipsanovic, Anita Beretic, Karolj Kermeci, Zoran Mićović, Milija Jovanovic, Dragan Pavlovic, Bosko Ristić, Arsen Kurjački, Radomir Naumov, Vladan Jovičić, Branko Beševic, Sava Popadić, Jon Čizaš, Zoran Novoaković. In the morning of the absence, Mihajlo Markovic, in the afternoon Boris Karaičić, and Borisvoje Mijatovic announced a delay. I would like to inform you that the sittings are invited to be attended by the President, the Vice-President, the Ministers and the Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: - Proposal for an amending law and additions to labour law (specificities) I remind you that, at a session of 26 April, we have suspended our work on this item of the agenda at the moment we were due to vote on the amendment of MP Goran Cvetanović, to Article 6(3). Now we're going to vote. Amendment of MP Goran Cvetanovic to Article 6(3) It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5348	Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5350	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I would like once again to draw attention first and foremost to the President of the National Assembly, and then to the vice-presidents who are replacing him in his absence, to violate the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I will mention Article 93, paragraph 3, which says "The National Assembly President" (and in this case it was Vice-President Mr. Sabic, who chaired the session at the end of Thursday), "interrupts the work of the National Assembly and in other cases, if that is the conclusion of the National Assembly". We have already warned you once that the president of the Assembly has self-initiated the work of the Assembly on the day the president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, Dr Vojislav Seselj, was expelled from the session. Mr. Sabic also did it on Thursday. I warn you, it means that in the future you must put something like this to the vote, because only the Assembly can decide to suspend work before the time set for a meeting during that day. We agreed at the beginning of the working day that we would be working until half-eight, and if the Assembly has suspended work at 1800 hours, then it is the usurpation of decision-making rights by the chairman, and only we as MPs can decide to what time we will work, whether the work will be shortened or extended. Also, since the president doesn't usually know what I want when I go out for this pay phone, I ask that it be determined that the Rules of Procedure has been broken, no other explanation would, of course, satisfy me, except recognition. Also, I want to point out to you a member of 134 who is severely infringing himself, because he refers to a discussion in particular, where it clearly stands who has the right to participate in the debate on amendments. It is clearly said to be a representative of the parliamentary group. What did we want when we brought a book like this? We wanted the parliamentary group to never be left without its representative. So it's not the president of the parliamentary group, it's not the deputy president of the parliamentary group, it's the representative. We wanted it to mean, depending on what point is on the agenda, what is it that is most relevant that a single parliamentary group represents. You have denied us this right, and by this practice you are constantly bringing the Assembly into a situation that is unfortunate and you are taking the blame for the debate being conducted in this way. Then you make any statements in the press, that Serbian radicals are the ones who interfere with the work of the Assembly and are looking for something.... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... which doesn't belong to them. Please, if we are unable to abide by this act, which we ourselves have brought, and we show that in this way we respect some of the rules of conduct, how we will obey the laws that we make. The President is at your disposal the right that if you are not sure how to proceed, set a break and arrange with your vice presidents. I ask you best to create a uniform practice in the future, so that you don't have one rule, the other vice president of the second rule, the third vice president of the third rule, and then you make confusion in the work of this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5351	I won't answer your remarks, because we've talked about them in the past few days. I can only ask you if you suggest that the Assembly plead your objections to the violation of the Rules of Procedure? In any case, when it comes to objecting to the Rules of Procedure, it must be decided in one way or another. We'll see about that. (Gordana Pop-Lazic now: Unless you admit it. We've already talked about this. If I'm not mistaken, there was a situation where a break was given, although I wasn't present, but Mr. Shabic interrupted the session and gave a break at the end of the work, which was about seven hours or something even later. So under Article 93, he has the right to do so, in the event that he considers that the necessary consultations would be carried out, he shall obtain an opinion or interrupt the work of the Assembly and in other cases, if the National Assembly so concludes. That's what you're proposing, but it has the right to, and for the sake of the need to maintain order at the session, set the break that it takes to establish that order. As it was at the very end of the work, I understand that. Of course, I'll put your proposal to a vote. Or as a suggestion, that in the future the termological, more specifically the one who holds the chair of the session declares, whether it is a pause or a interruption of the session, which is to be decided on. Help me if you're looking for a statement or this is like a suggestion to keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5352	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5353	We're going back to work. We have reached a statement on the amendment of MP Goran Cvetanovic to Article 6(3). I ask the Members of Parliament to declare this amendment. For 61, against 135, there are no abstentions, no four votes, a total of 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5354	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act, I propose that the minimum wage payment orders be executed before the other commitments have been made. I believe that the existence of workers is priority and, in my deep belief, that justice would be served, that the worker should first receive minimum earnings, and everything else to go later, the order of payments and payments, as regards commitments to certain funds and certain entities. A very delicate question arises, what will that man who has a minimum wage anyway and doesn't get it in time, and has a family of three or four members, what is this family going to live on? If we put workers in a situation to be paid first and charged by employers and the state to fund labour obligations, in this case, I repeat, the existence of thousands and hundreds of thousands of families in the Republic of Serbia will be questioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5355	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? He's got a word, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to explain the work of the parliamentary majority of DOS, which is why and in what way, we have just delivered one letter explaining our request to have a representative, or deputy president of the parliamentary group on this agenda, so that from there my right to address you, although it was the right and the right to represent the parliamentary group, but apparently the parliamentary majority did not want to allow it. I would like to point out to you the fact about Mr Jojic's amendment, that it would be good and that it does not pose any particular burden for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or for employers, and that it should not pose a problem for the parliamentary majority to accept this amendment, above all because only in a better way, workers' rights and nothing more. A slightly greater security is provided in the payment of minimum earnings, i.e. the minimum earnings will be paid before the remaining commitments are made. Thus, an employer cannot be drawn by the fact, i.e. to avoid such a kind of obligation by the fact that there is something else that is necessary to pay, or something else that is necessary to do, but must first pay the minimum profit. It seems to us that, especially in the conditions of such low minimum earnings and the difficult social standard of the largest number of our citizens, and especially workers, something that can be accepted, something that would be good to accept and something that would mean the same to you. We don't think there's any reason to reject such an amendment by a representative of the Serbian Radical Party. I believe that you will show understanding and I believe that you will show that some of the basic rights of workers and some of their elemental status solutions are much more important than just the voting of Serbian radicals in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5357	He has the word Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5358	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not about the intention of the DOS, to re-vote amendments coming from the opposition's ranks. It's about respecting the bill we're facing here. In fact, there is no longer a guaranteed profit and there is no longer a difference between receiving workers and the part that has so far been defined as something that in itself does not get paid, and it concerns the allocation of funds in the name of the Health Insurance Fund or the Pension Fund. The minimum profit is the profit the worker made with his work. The minimum profit is the profit of which is an integral part and the allocation of funds for the Pension Fund, i.e. health insurance. Therefore, there is no need to respect such an amendment, because it ignores the fact that there is no longer as a notion of guaranteed earnings which existed in the previous Law adopted in 1996 and which is envisaged, among other things, and as a safeguard factor, and as a warrant for the payment of guaranteed earnings made from the remaining commitments. So no more of these other commitments, but they're part of the minimum profit. The worker makes a certain amount of money with his work, and he has the means to make it available. These are the funds he spends, among other things, on the Health Insurance Fund and on the Pension Insurance Fund. So, you can't share minimum profit now. It's just that we've overcome that kind of problem, because we don't have the relationship that existed before between the guaranteed salary and something that wasn't defined as pay, and it was some form of payment. We discussed this during the previous sessions, when I tried to prove to you through examples that the worker does not distinguish between guaranteed earnings and what is set out on behalf of the Health Insurance Fund or pension insurance. That's what he created with his work. If he created it with his work, it's his salary. If that's his salary, then there's no reason to distinguish between what's his salary and what's so far been some ex post obligation, and what's today an integral part of that pay. So the minimum profit is something that in itself provides coverage of all costs, so we can't respect this amendment because it's an amendment that would make sense today that guaranteed earnings work, not the principle of gross wages that they make, among other things, and that obligation that you mentioned. So they themselves through the paid minimum profit will be covered.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5359	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for a discussion under this amendment? Nobody. ) Since no one is answering anymore, I am putting this amendment to the vote. For 60, against 137, there were no abstentions, no four votes, a total of 201 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 11th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Since the applicant of the amendment is not present, does any of the other authorized want a word? Mr. Vukic, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Assembly, this amendment is of a technical nature, since the draft law on amendments and additions, the Labour Relations Act, failed that since it proposed the abolition of one member, it follows the names of the other members, in line with that abolition. I would point to a very significant remark, which is what you spoke of earlier, Miss or Madam Chairman, as regards the opinion of the Legislative Committee. The Legislative Committee can only say whether the amendment is legally possible or not, and not whether it accepts it or does not accept it. This has nothing to do with the competences of the Legislative Committee, and it would be good if those who sit on committees knew their responsibilities, not to introduce us to what is really not true. Unfortunately, this kind of technical sloppyness is not the first. You remember that we pointed out that we had once had a part of the text of the law, that is, in the law on amendments and additions, where 35% of the amount, minimum earnings, and compared to the average gross earnings in the Republic of Serbia, and then in part of the reasoning it said that it was 40%. Then it was said that it was a printing mistake, i.e. that it must have been a dactylograph, and not that it was the Secretary of Law for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We refer you to this, since the government's reasoning and response is very strange, because the bill is said to be legally prepared in an appropriate manner and in collaboration with the competent authorities, which is not about the consolidated text of the Labour Relations Act, so it would be good if this were agreed and moved by one member. It's not a fundamental provision, it's a technical amendment, and it would be good to accept it. It would be good, because it is too sloppy in the work of the National Assembly, from the MP proposing the exclusion of Dr Vojislav Seselj, until he calls for the wrong....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5361	Please stick to the subject, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5362	I stick to the subject, I speak very carefully of the amendment and explain it in the best way possible. If we've done it many times before, don't let us do it on this one.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5363	Is anyone else applying for a discussion, according to this amendment? If not, I am voting on amendments to Natasa Jovanovic's MP. For vote 61, against 129, the abstentioned one, did not vote 6, a total of 197 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We're moving on to Article 15. On Article 15 of the 3rd Amendment in the same text, MPs Srboljub Zivanovic, Vitomir Plužarevic, Veroljub Arsic, submitted. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5364	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have put the amendment to Article 15(3). The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act, under point 3, is added a new point 4 which reads: "if it has not paid the minimum wage employed in accordance with the law". This proposal, at point 4, I suggested that the worker would be safer and not have an obligation, i.e. inspection services would have less activity under this amendment, i.e. the worker would be more protected, so that this law would be more systematic and this issue would be easier to resolve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5365	The word has the People's MP Veroljub Arsic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5366	Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 15 of this law, it is said that restrictions can be taken over by the employer in the event that he does not pay his personal income and, as Mr. Minister said, this law is allegedly made in the interests of workers and in this article it is foreseen that if the employer does not pay his personal income, that his company is closed for a certain period of time. I just don't understand whether they'll pay the fines and extend the closure if they don't pay their personal income at the time of closing, or if they don't pay their own income until the company does. It seems to me that Mr. Minister and the Government are not considering that more than 90% of Serbia's companies and their leadership are thinking about whether to split one salary and close down the company or those funds that they have to release into trade, make a certain profit and pay. Now, when this law comes into force, this dilemma will no longer exist, it will have another one now, whether the inspection of their work will shut down the company or they themselves. Basically, as it is said, this law is technically ill-written, and if it is the graduate work of Mr. Minister who is a 30-year-old student, then he probably won't give it, about writing such a law, I wouldn't want to participate and withdraw my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5367	The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 15(3). The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act, under point 3, is added a new point 4 which reads: "if it has not paid the minimum wage employed in accordance with the law". The explanation - in the exercise of inspection supervision, the labour inspector is authorised to order the employer, i.e. the Director, to remove identified infringements of the law or collective contract, i.e. general acts and contracts of work. The labour inspector shall make a decision on the prohibition of the employer's work if the employer does not act according to the decision of the labour inspector he has ordered him to do. The employer shall be obliged to notify, no later than 15 days from the date of delivery of the decision referred to in Article 1 of this Article, of the work on the execution of the solution. The labour inspector shall prohibit the performance of the business under 1), if the employee has not completed a contract on a member of the work, Article 11 or second contract under Article 129 of this Act, (2), if he has not filed an application for compulsory social security, (3) if he has not established a working relationship for at least two employees within the meaning of Article 128 of this Act, (4) which I have submitted, unless he has paid a minimum wage to an employee in accordance with the law. That's why I think the Assembly will adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5369	Is anyone else applying for a discussion? Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5370	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why do I think it would be a good idea to accept this amendment, or why do we think it would be good? There seems to be, in part of the text, it is already said that if the inspector in the control process determines that the employer has not paid the salary, or minimum earnings, it will be prohibited to carry out the employer's work. That's true, but there's one condition, that's all said in the condicional. By accepting this amendment, as it is said - if it is found to have paid off the earnings against the provisions of a member or if it is available by means, it has not had the means of payment in the account and so on. So there's this danger for those who are receiving minimum profit, so that's one way or another, from whatever angle you're looking at, in whatever way you're looking at, they're in an extremely difficult position. So, we believe that this would strengthen the obligation of an employer who would have to pay off his obligations to workers in the form of minimum earnings, that at least those who are socially at risk, who are therefore receiving minimum earnings, could provide it in the best possible way. It seems to me that it's something that's perfectly normal, because if someone receives a minimum profit of 7, 8, 9, or 10 months, it's more of a priority to give them 11 minimum earnings, most importantly than even to give 11 profits to the one who's been receiving 10 normal earnings, which are two, three, four or five times what we've talked about so far. So we think it would be good to accept this amendment as a better addition to what exists in the text, as something that will represent a congenital norm, for the employer, and I don't think it should be for the ruling majority of this to represent any kind of problem, and I think it would be something that's normal and acceptable at the very end of the line. It seems to me that people who are thinking in DOS, people who would like to do something that isn't some special concession to workers, that they would really have to accept this. Once again, I truly believe that in an incredibly illegal way you have excluded Vojislav Seselj and Goran Cvetanovic from this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5371	Please stick to the subject. The word has been given by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5372	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we seem to be getting into these situations quite often. Of course, this is a good amendment, but we took care of it when we did this law on whose proposal we're discussing today. In a member mentioned, there are two insurance mechanisms protecting workers' rights in the manner envisaged by the proposed amendment. I will remind you of this: that the labour inspector will prohibit the exercise of the employer's activity if he has not concluded a contract with an employee, or a second contract under Article 129 of this Act. The labour contract has very precisely defined the obligations of the employer, among other things and sanctions, if these obligations are not respected and I will remind you of another by providing a protection mechanism for employees, which says that the inspector in the control procedure will prohibit the employer from working unless it is determined that the employer has paid the earnings, i.e. minimum earnings, and if he has paid the profits contrary to the provisions of Article 64(2) of this Law. So, it's not disputed this amendment, but in the bill that we went to the Assembly with, there are in this particular member of the two insurance mechanisms that guarantee the payment of the minimum wage of the employee and very sharply sanctions every employer who thinks he doesn't do such a thing by doing harm to the workers. There is no need for it, so I am referring to this amendment, there is no need for it, given that in a concrete way we have twice defined in one article the obligations of the employer and the sanctions that will follow the possible abuse of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5373	Is anyone else applying for a discussion? No, I don't. ) I am putting on an amendment submitted in the same text by MPs Srboljub Zivanovic, Vitomir Plužarevic and Veroljub Arsic. For 58, against 127, with 5 abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 197 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15, the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the bearer want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5374	In Article 140. The Labour Relations Act, which was in force until this change, is authorised by the inspector to order the employer, or the director, to remove the established infringements of the law or collective agreements, i.e. general acts and labour contracts, within a certain period. The employer was also obliged to notify the work on the implementation of the solution as far as 15 days from the day of delivery of the decision under Article 1. The prohibition of the work referred to in Article 2 may take a maximum period of 30 days from the date of delivery of the solution. The new draft labour law if the labour inspector determines in the control procedure that the employer has not paid the earnings, i.e. minimum earnings, and if he has paid the profits contrary to the provisions of Article 64(2) of this Act and has made the funds to be paid on the account, he will prohibit the performance of the work. The prohibition to perform the activities referred to in paragraphs 3 and 6 of this Article may take 30 to 90 days. The appeal of the solution does not hold the execution. I think in this earlier Labour Law, that was a little bit better solved. I don't know which employer, who, after the 90-day inspection, can return to performing his duties. I think you're doing the bear service for the workers with this bill. In the first part, they will be protected, an employer forced to pay off some profit under the penalty of being shut down for 90 days. If you close down a business operator for 90 days, there is no force or force in it that will be able to start that business after 90 days of standing. The amendment to the Amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act after the words "sacona" are deleted the following words: "and, it has the means to pay off the account". The employer is not obliged to pay the worker's wages. If he didn't have the funds to pay off, there's no safety with the workers. The proposed amendment, in the proposed text of amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act, left the employer with the possibility of paying minimum earnings in accordance with the Law binding on the existence of funds for payment on the account, which increases economic uncertainty and such a difficult position of employees. The proposed amendment reduces the possibility of avoiding a minimum wage paid by the employer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5375	Is anyone else applying for a discussion under this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5376	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a very similar or closely related norm to what we talked about earlier, perhaps in an even more precise way, a more specific way of determining what we talked about earlier. I said just a little while ago that there are certain standards that in a certain way but not sufficiently precise and under certain conditions provide workers' rights to minimum income. I correctly read the views of that member, Article 15. But this is about erasing this condition. Why is this amendment of Mr. Janjic very good? Because a key part of this condition is deleted under which there would be no obligation for the employer to pay the minimum wage to the worker. So, you delete what releases him from the obligation to pay the minimum profit, which is "a, have the funds to pay off the account". First, there's a single account. It's a question of who knows what the funds are for payment and what they're not. Whether there will be other guarantees for acceptive warrants or something like that. So this worker is provided in the best possible way. No more of that condicional we talked about earlier, and I'm sure there shouldn't be any political will against this, and it seems to me to be the most normal thing to accept. Because if it is accepted, something I didn't say before - you can't contract workers to be provided because there are individual labour contracts and they're completely different from each other and you can't generally define them and define them in such a way as to sanction them. So this is something that we would best be able to protect workers' rights in this moment, and I think it should be acceptable for most of them. And, by the way, no wonder, I'm just going to say one sentence, so you don't interrupt me, (no wonder) that because of these amendments and because of what the Serbian radicals are saying to happen yesterday on the Radio Belgrade programme, for those who didn't listen, the Serbian Radical Party and Dr Vojislav Seselj are to blame for the murder of Stjepan Radic, because we just organized Puniša Racic...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5377	You have no right to speak beyond the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5378	But I'm telling you, because it's about this amendment. Because then you'll say again...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5379	It's not about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5380	It is about the amendment and again someone will say that we have obstructed Parliament's work, that we have done something that is contrary to the interests of the people or anyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5381	Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5382	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, we are obliged to comment on each amendment and to say what reasons it has led us to reject it in the assembly committees in which we have our representatives and what are the reasons why we are asking MPs at this session not to support such an amendment. Namely, it is the opposite of the nature of business and the logic of the natural environment in which we are today. It is a very precise obligation for the employer to pay the minimum wage and a very precise sanction is defined if the employer has the means to pay the salary and does not do such a thing. But we can't oblige the employer to pay the minimum wage even if he doesn't have the funds. If the company had failed, we would have passed one law as a Assembly that could not be applied at the outset in all those situations where businesses do not operate successfully and do not have the means to pay even minimum profits. That is why the proposal for this law defines the severances that we have talked about so many times and which practically cover certain needs of workers in situations where the company can no longer function in the economy or have the means to cover those costs or to pay the wages that the worker has earned through his work. Therefore, as regards Article 15, or Article 140, which is amended, that is, this amendment which has been tabled for consideration today, in this situation, it would practically put Parliament in a position to support the amendment, adopting a law which itself could not be applied in very clear and unfortunately frequent situations. Therefore, if the company does not have the means it cannot pay the minimum wage to the worker and in that case the severances are paid, and if it has the means to pay the salary and does not do such a thing will be very strictly sanctioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5383	Does anyone else sign up for a word? You've already talked about the amendment, and there's no replica. You are not mentioned at all, nor are you offended, nor are you misread. Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. I put this amendment to the vote. For 54, v. 127, abstention 2, did not vote 7, a total of 190-nation MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15, paragraph 7, in the same text, the MPs Branislav Blazic and Lazar Marjanski submitted. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go. There's a word from MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5384	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, restrictiveness, repression, hickeys, persecutions, political processes, the spread of fear and hatred -- is today a picture of democratic Serbia. How did you get gentlemen from DOS so much negative energy? To spread it, and with that negative energy, you're not going to make us... You will not take any steps in Serbia's moral and democratic process...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5385	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5386	Wait, ma'am, don't play female Bozovic. This is one introduction to this amendment. So why are you so impatient? When Mr Bozovic was, we survived him politically, and we survived and we outlived you. You won't have any political success either. What I'm saying is that here in this amendment, it's supposed to change -- 90 days of imprisonment, employers, his companies, or production, because of an undisputed violation. But it's about how restrictive it is for those 90 days to shut down someone, someone's production, and whether they can then start that production. What good is that, after all, and the workers that made this law and this member of the law come in? What good do workers do when 90 days do not work and after 90 days that same employer will not be able to pay them back the guaranteed profits. Why does it feel so much of this Bolshevik hatred and desire to shut everything down, to stop everything, to stop every production. Well, it's not in the democratic opposition programme of Serbia, or maybe I'm in some sort of error when it comes to democracy, because I've heard here that there are all kinds of Democrats and here I've heard that there are bloodthirsty Democrats. It's a little incompatible to me...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5387	Mr. Blažić, on the basis of Articles 100 and 101, I give you a warning because even after the warning, you did not follow the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5388	All right, ma'am, you're acting like Richelieu. You want to draw one sentence and have a reason to hang someone. If you don't mind, it was said here last week and there was no warning against that MP. I can only tell the lady who said that as a surgeon, I'm not disgusted with blood, I'm sick of blood. Me, when she decides to stop being tolerated, if she can throw me in the gas chamber or in the ihman oven, maybe it'll be better. So this amendment simply calls on us and we want a little reason to get into one of these kind of repressions. Ninety days is unnecessary, the amendment envisions 15 days to close the company, to punish the employer in such a way, and to punish the alleged offence by fine. It will benefit the state, and these workers, and this employer, after all, and the question arises -- what if workers and employers agree not to pay a month's wages, so they can maybe invest in production, will this labour inspector, who comes across, respecting such a law, close a company for 90 days? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5389	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5390	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'd like to say a few words about this amendment. The question is, what if it costs agriculture, foundry, dairy, oil industry, and so on? Isn't it a better and simpler solution, if it comes to it, to replace the director, that's the simplest solution. And to stop 15 days of one of those companies, the foundry, and so on, I think it's a tragedy. It's very difficult to run, so bad is our technology, a chain of technology in production, once it's broken, it's extremely difficult to run. One question for Mr. Minister (although he's not here) - what about companies, if they have a debtor, and it's a state firm, NIS, EPS, and so on they can't charge that money and they can't pay their own income? Then what happens to them and the state is in debt? Is there a need to shut down these companies? I think the best solution right now is not to shut down these firms, but to take down the director and find someone else to provide it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5391	Anybody else answer for a word? He's got a word, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5392	First of all, I don't understand why the presidency has so much passion and why it utters a warning to the Serbian radicals, when it repeats what DOS MPs have said from this pay phone, but it shows your panic-stricken fear. I don't understand anything anymore, because there's no need to be afraid of us, except in a political sense. As far as this amendment is concerned, which is on the agenda, since you did not give me the right to reply earlier, even though I had the right to do so in the Rules of Procedure, I will take the opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5393	You can't take advantage of the opportunity, you can just discuss it by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5394	I'll take the opportunity, because it's the same member, and you don't understand it anyway, whatever I'm talking about, you don't know and you don't understand it, so it doesn't matter what I'm talking about, so now I'm just going to point out a few things that are illogical and contradictory in the very explanation of the ruling majority and in the very response of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party MPs. Namely, the amendment submitted by Branislav Blazic, a National MP for the Serbian Radical Party, was answered by the government of the Republic of Serbia (for those who did not read), they said - The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia (it is true, in Article 36(1)) guaranteed employees the right to receive adequate earnings, the right to earn. So one of the basic labour rights (it's all true). But if we already have in Article 15, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 that it is said that it is necessary to pay social security and that it is said that a working relationship with at least two employees is necessary, then why should there be no obligation to pay minimum earnings? If you have an obligation to the state, why don't you have an equal obligation to the workers? It's about what we talked about. And as far as this amendment is concerned, if the inspectors of the institution's work in the control process are not meeting any of these conditions, which are the Cogent Standards, we consider that this deadline should be shortened, because, for example, if it is determined for 90 days, a decision on the termination of a particular company's work is being made, what is the question - how will this work after those 90 days? How is someone going to consolidate, how will someone manage to solve their internal problems, find new internal resources, and in 90 days, keep working again, pay off all their obligations, all the benefits, get to those to whom they have to, and then continue in the most normal way to function? In Serbia, the situation is very difficult, especially in production plants. Here, we found out that in Majdanpek and the fourth transport tape had stopped working. If these conditions arise, that there is no money to pay minimum earnings, or there is no money to pay all these profits provided for by a member of the law, instead of being interrupted for 15 days, or 30 days, some other kind of punishment is determined, therefore, to be at least possible, in order to return to the production process as soon as possible (I am talking first of all because of those companies and those companies dealing with production, therefore, not trade and services), it seems to be a priority at the moment. I think this would be an incomparable better solution. And if someone is unable to pay off, so they are unable to resolve their obligations even after such a period, then more rigorous sanctions can be taken. But it is quite pointless for such sanctions to be taken immediately, because they will never come out of the established employer's obligations, in any way they will not be able to solve these problems, and the state will not get anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5395	He has the word National MP, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5396	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat once again that in the bill there is a very precise obligation to pay minimum earnings, and that sanctions, which are spoken in this amendment, sanctions that do not apply to businesses that have a problem with business, are not about Majdanpek, in which the fourth tape stood, but are about those companies that make profits and have the means to pay off profits, and they do not do something like that. So they have funds in their account, and workers don't pay their salaries. There have been numerous examples over the last 10 years, situations in which companies have recorded profits, and workers have failed. So we can't run the state anymore, and something like that won't be allowed without very precise sanctions, so let the employer think about whether it's cheaper for him to pay the employee's salary, and thus reduce the profits he's made, or to be sanctioned with a labour ban from 30 to 90 days, and that doesn't mean that he'll be freed from paying his employees, because on the contrary, he'll be obliged to, and in the period he's being punished, to settle his obligations to his employees. So these are sanctions that sanction companies, which are successful, and they don't want to share their success with those who produced this success, therefore, with workers, not those companies that have a problem in work, whether it's about industry, whether it's about agriculture. If companies do not have the means to pay minimum earnings, they will not be subject to these sanctions. It's the only difference compared to that law that has so far defined the field of working relations and that's the only difference the opposition doesn't seem to want to see, or simply, something like that won't comment on. Therefore, sanctions are directed only at those who have a concrete success, they have funds in the account, and they do not want to forward them to workers and they do not want to share their success with those who produced them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5397	Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. ) If not, I put amendments submitted in the same text by MPs Branislav Blazic and Lazar Marjanski to the vote. For 60, against 121 abstentions, there were no votes, no votes, a total of 189 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15, paragraph 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5398	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like this amendment to draw attention to the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, in Article 26. The Federal Constitution has been regulated to lodge an appeal on each act of the State authority and in Article 22. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is also normised and envisions that citizens have the right to file a complaint against any decision or verdict, or a court decision, state authority and other organisation. In fact, a positive question is raised, why not allow in certain exceptional cases that the lodged complaint delays the execution? According to the proposal for a law, as proposed by the Proposer, the enforcement of the decision is excluded because the appeal does not retain enforcement. It is very important to point out that a delicate question is being asked what will happen to those, if a company and employer can't do business for 90 days, and this is about seasonal affairs. In 90 days, he won't be able to continue the process of production or the process of work. And the next question is, what happens if the employer doesn't pay off the profits after 90 days. The company, i.e. the company, the employer is still in a difficult situation. In my deep confidence, it is not so much a sanction for the employer to suffer, and especially for some employers who are skillful to cope and to adapt to new circumstances, but rather for the maximum punishment to suffer employees in a company where they do not receive personal incomes and in which the company or employer does not operate for 90 days. What will happen to those who deal with livestock? Shut down his company for 90 days, and to whom he will be able to sell the products, what will you do if the company closes down to those who deal with fruit growing and who have laged large quantities and bought the agricultural product, they have laged, but have failed to place on the market. They failed at a given moment to pay off their profits or to perform their duties. What will happen when a citizen or worker or employer lodges a complaint for a solution and a decision? The second-degree authority adopts his appeal. So there are adverse consequences over a period of 30 days or 90 days. Who's going to make up for that? Then who's gonna be right? Is he who's brought the solution, the state authority and who's going to compensate the workers for the damage? It is certain that the position of workers in that company and the company that is closed and banned from working for 30 to 90 days, and especially this longer period of time, is most affected by the working class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5399	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would say about the amendment submitted by MP Petar Jojic - this is about several very connected and significant things. In fact, you know that we have a lot of problems in our country otherwise, we've had this problem before, it's no news, we seem to be just making these problems bigger and expanding so-called secondary legislation. Namely, there are specific laws that regulate the relationship of criminal - legal matter, administrative - legal matter and all that is spread under other laws is in fact the creation of so-called secondary legislation, which is a fundamental problem. We in the Serbian Radical Party think it would be good if there were, therefore, unique laws or these codes under certain legal circumstances and regulated legal matter, as it would thus avoid the arbitration and use of so-called special norms in relation to the general principles and general norms of one law. Namely, what this is about is contrary to the provisions of the Law in the administrative procedure, and even contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 22(2) says that "everyone is guaranteed the right to appeal or another remedy against a decision which is resolved on his or her right or on a law-based interest". There is no more important right and there is no greater interest in anyone who performs a certain activity, for each of the employers, but to work. If this right is denied, it is denied its greatest interest and its elemental right. On the other hand, I have to say that it's a rather illogically small-time construction of the head of the DOS parliamentary group, when he said it would sanction successful businesses, says successful businesses that do not pay salaries. Well, which is a successful company that doesn't pay the salary. One of the basic conditions that a company could be called successful is that it pays off its employees' earnings. If he wasn't paying off the profits, I guess the workers would be the first to escape from such a company, and such a company couldn't be successful. Nowhere in the law, to put all this aside, it doesn't say that these are companies that make significant profits or especially successful businesses. It doesn't say that anywhere in the law. There's no such thing as a norm. There's no such thing as a dispositive norm, it's not in the law at all. So it's a very free and rather imprecise interpretation of representatives of the ruling majority who don't talk about what's really going on. We think a security guard like this, so to prevent execution before any employer can use the right to appeal, his constitutional right, nothing more than that. So I guess that's meant to be and that would be something that's most normal. I consider and call on the parliamentary group of DOS majority to accept this amendment or one part of their MPs. I believe that this would significantly protect employers' rights, and we would not touch them in any way in the rights of workers. This would protect workers' rights as much as possible, because workers can't get anything by shutting down any economic operator, any company, any company or anything else for 90 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5401	Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5402	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the best workers themselves know how many companies and management companies they've been working in over the past ten years have shared their destiny. Let's try to get back to the essence of this bill and analyze all those steps that precede the ban on labour from 30 to 90 days. Let's see what situations the employer faces with such sanctions. First, I repeat once again, that they are not -- that they are not sanctioning those companies that do not have the means to pay, but only those companies that have the means to pay their salaries in their account, and they do not do something like that. For example, they transfer these funds to another parallel account and do not display them in the business of their firm. Therefore, (sanctions shall be applied) when the inspection authority authorised to supervise the employer or the director to remove identified infringements of the law or collective agreements, i.e. general acts and labour contracts within a specified time limit. So the inspection comes into the company and realizes there's no payout, there's funds in the account. At that moment, he warns the director to pay the workers' wages and from that point on starts to run 15 days. It is a deadline within which the Director is required to respect the inspection bodies. It's a deadline within which the director can also appeal. If he does not pay the salary in those 15 days, then the sanction we are talking about will be applied, and he will be obliged to pay the fine, given that he has not done something, until he is obliged to be paid by the inspection authority. So, it's not about rough application and sanctioning, which means the immediate closure of the company for 90 days, but rather about the last sanction that precedes those I mentioned earlier. Therefore, a 15-day period in which the employer is obliged to, however, since he has the resources, pass the funds on to workers as wages. As regards the appeal, complaints do not delay the execution only in the most critical situations, i.e. in situations which are precise in paragraph 3 and in the position of the Sixth Act. Therefore, sanctions, i.e. sanctions, shall not be delayed unless the employer has established a working relationship for at least two employees and if the inspector has established in the control procedure that the employer has not paid the earnings, i.e. minimum earnings, as well as if he has paid the earnings contrary to the provisions of Article 64(2) of this Act, and has made the payments. Therefore, only in these two key cases does the employer suffer such sanctions, where the appeal does not delay execution. I remind you that such a situation is nothing new, nor is it a precedent. The complaints did not delay the execution, even in the case of, say, the Information Act, which was probably the highlight of the legal creativity of today's opposition. The media could appeal the judgments of the courts, but those appeals did not delay the execution. So, in this case, we do nothing but apply certain legal freedoms and rights that are defined, among other things, and in our legislation. The appeal cannot delay execution if the employer has funds in the account and after 15 days, therefore, after two weeks of warning, he does not pay the workers the funds. He does not deserve to continue working without such a kind of sanctions, which does not question the rights of workers, because he is parallelly obliged to pay, during those 90 days, to pay his employees because he has funds in his account for such a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5403	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5404	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5405	I wasn't there, I don't know if you mentioned it. You have no right to a replica, at least according to what I've heard. You didn't mention it. Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. ) I am putting Jojic's amendments to the vote. For 57, against 113, with six abstentions, 14 did not vote, a total of 190 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 16 by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5406	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to Article 16 of the proposed law. In Article 16(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Relations Act, the words "from 200,000 dinars", are replaced by the words "from 2,000 to 20,000 dinars". I have proposed this amendment for the reasons of the restrictive nature of this law, because the range of penalties for the same action is 1:100, which is a really too wide range. If the lowest item was increased to 2,000, then the highest item would have to be 20,000 dinars, because it's too high to be 200,000 dinars. This bill may lead to abuse, by the state according to those employers who do not comply with their obligations, and they are taxed in Article 142. The labour law, where there are 28 indents the employer will be punished by this fine. The bottom line of my amendment is that there is no too much leprosy and no categories of obedient and less obedient, politically-like, unsuitable, so that this law is the same for all to whom these sanctions apply. With these high sentences and a very low sentence, some can be stimulated. So the range is from one price, minimum earnings, to 110 minimum earnings, which is a very large range, especially if it refers to those employers who have two to 10, 20 employees in their company. So there can be a situation where the non-exposure of these, that for 10 employees who have one employer, if some mistake is made, and mistakes can be banal, if, for example, the disciplined measures are not kept in records. He punished someone, he has to keep it, archive it, as one of the most important documents. That's why an enterprise, for example, can be punished with 200,000 dinars, so, with the maximum penalty, and that can be, as I have already stated, 110 minimum-timers, so, almost a year of not working, they've been provided with those funds. That is why I propose and appeal that my amendment be accepted, so that it does not come to all this which I have stated in an explanation for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5407	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this request of ours might look like a contradiction to someone compared to what we said earlier, but essentially, it's not because it finds the right measure between the employer's obligation and the rights of workers. It seems to me that we have been able to find something that would be the best solution, and there would be no demagogy or investment and workers and employers. Why am I saying this? Because it is not our desire to court workers and say that employers should be placed or thrown in a well without workers having to do anything without receiving huge profits or having significant responsibilities, i.e. to bind employers in every way possible. This is one of the things that must be handled simultaneously by employers and workers. Because, because of some violations, which are truly irrelevant to the manufacturing process, for work, such as, say, if the employee determines work longer than full-time contrary to the provisions of this law and therefore is punished by 200,000 dinars, then you can imagine how many such applications you will have, how many such complaints you will have, and everything else, and in what way anyone will be able to function. However, we cannot boast that as a people, we are eternally horrendous working habits, so now all we need is this so that everyone can report their employer and such small things. It's okay if he can, but he can pay a certain amount of money, up to 20,000 dinars, as planned by Mr Kragovic's amendment. But to pay 200,000 dinars for it, it's still too much, you'll agree. As for the recent comparison of the head of the DOS parliamentary group, he doesn't understand. Of course, it's nothing weird to me, I know he doesn't understand the law, he doesn't understand. That's something that would be too much to ask. But as far as the delay is concerned, whether the appeal delays the enforcement of the Information Act, or the application of the Labour Law, things are completely different. There was no delay in the execution because of what was violated by the rights of others and, above all, because of the worst possible lies, because of the worst possible kind of irresponsibility, because people were found guilty of murder, without any court proceedings, let alone the judicial verdicts. We see what this is all about today, where you can lie about what you want in the paper, on television, whatever you want without any responsibility. You can tell anyone what you want. It is a much greater and much more serious offense than any punishment that could be imposed on anyone for such a serious offense. Don't just remind you of how many murders we've been responsible for, how much madness and nonsense. Finally, the question arises -- where are these murders, who did them? How come we haven't done them now for that Jovic pasture and for many others? They were said to be slaughtered and so forth, so there's no end to it. But when some people needed it all over the pages, they published it, they wrote all over the pages, and someone thought that such a lie could pass. It can't go a lie like it can't go through a story about how some Democrats are, and with guns, they're breaking in...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5409	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5410	You did not warn Mr. President of a short-time speaker who spoke of the same subject, so please, I will end up with a sentence or two.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5411	I wasn't there, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5412	So it's the Democrats who are going to enter with guns into certain companies, but it's not the Democrats who follow the law. As for the Law on Administrative Procedure and the special norms I was talking about, I think it is very important, but it would be good if you had submitted the same for some other laws in the earlier period, and I would agree with that, if it were not for a good spread, that is to say, making so-called secondary legislation, not in the area of criminal-legal matter, or administrative-legal matter, or any other. There has never been such a kind of proposal, except for the hickey and the haranga on political opponents and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5413	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5414	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is practically trying to reduce the importance of the first sanction that precedes the imposition of a second sanction, i.e. the ban on the work of an employer, i.e. the exercise of activity within 30 to 90 days. If we were to accept this amendment, all those who now abuse the right of the employer, do not pay salaries to the employees, and when they have the means to pay them, would immediately agree to pay a fine of 2,000 dinars or 10,000 dinars, without paying the employees of their company, say 100 or 150. The very precise bill defined a range of 2,000 to 200,000 dinars. This range will be given in cash, in the form of penalties for every employer who, by decision of the state authorities, or courts, the inspection bodies do not respect the Labour Relations Act, and that is the essence that is always the same here, is just the basis for some subsequent interpretations of policies that we do not need to discuss, at least not today. This does not call into question the right of the employer, or the rights of the worker, but draws out the obligations, in this particular case, of the employer to the worker. If he has the means to pay off, which he does not, within 15 days he is obliged to pay a fine to the state and to settle his obligations to pre-adopted employees, and if he deafens this monetary power, then he will be sanctioned by banning the performance of 30 to 90 days and something like that, because such employers, such enterprises do not need either our society or our employees. Why would someone work in a profit-making company, and then the company is not ready to share that profit with those who make it. Where there's social justice, where there's respect for employees, where there's a fight, and the effects of fighting for the pawn, in terms of the rights of the workers we've been listening to in the past weeks, and this is what's seriously at stake. Each employer will break the law, pay 2,000 dinars a fine, refusing to pay 100 or 150 salaries to his employees. Something like that, if it was possible so far, since the adoption of this law, it will no longer be possible and we will most strictly sanction those companies that have the means to pay their salaries, and so do not, and the first penalty is a fine, the second sanction is a ban on working for 30 to 90 days, with these companies having to pay their salaries to their employees, and they will pay their salaries since they have the funds to pay, which is determined by the inspection authorities. That's the essence that we're talking about today, and that's the essence that keeps repeating here, through a series of amendments that are practically the basis for some political polarizations that in themselves have nothing to do with this agenda. (Ljumir Kragovic, solo: Replica, I am the bearer of the amendment)
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5415	He didn't mention you at all. Let's see again in the Rules of Procedure, what stands, you must be mentioned. He's made his point, the attitude is different from yours, but it's not that, it's polemic and there's no replica. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) If not, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 50, against 113, abstention 2 did not vote 22, a total of 187 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In Article 16(1), the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5416	Several of us MPs have submitted amendments to the level of fines, primarily bearing in mind the purpose of punishment. The sentence has two functions, preventive and repressive. The preventive role is reflected in the deterrence of offenders to commit or commit a criminal offence, or a commercial offence, and the repressive role is seen in the fact that the person who has committed the offence, who has been fined, is so affected that it prevents him from committing the offence. I'm not against penalties that have been measured to deter the conduct of the offence, but when measuring the sentence, it has to be taken into account the appropriateness of the sentence which would destimulate, in this case, the employer to perform some of the actions provided for in this article. I suggested a reduction in the fine because the employer's economic power was greatly reduced and the range of penalties was inappropriately large, from 2,000 to 200,000 dinars. In all, Article 142 provides for 28 cases where the sentence can be imposed. Some cases are, to put it this way, benign and probably deserve that minimum sentence. What will it look like in practice, we will see just how the law enforcement authorities in Belgrade, in Kragujevac, in Smederev, will decide? Will those penalties for the same violations be the same height? I doubt it. That's why I think we should cut the penalty range. For this reason, we MPs who have made amendments to the level of punishment wanted to draw attention to the government to consider that the range is smaller, or to decide that according to the severity of social danger, certain infringements, to single these cases, and to some prescribed less punishment, for some greater, so that the practice would be evened, and that the judge for the violations, or the breaking bodies, would not be some mothers, and some mothers, or, and there were such cases, and it would certainly be, for a small compensation, for some other employer, the competitors made a decision on a much greater penalty than would be appropriate to the offence. So, we're giving the possibility of a misdemeanor to use their role to some extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5417	Is anyone else applying for a discussion? If not, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 109 abstentions, there were no 27 votes, a total of 187 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 16 by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Since the applicant for the amendment is not present, does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5418	I would just like to point out one thing, since the amendments are very similar, which Serbian Radical Party MPs have submitted to the proposed member. What's this about? There is no cumulative obligation of the employer in the way that it is spoken a little while before, but a kind of alternative obligation, but we here want to make a fundamental difference between the different types of offences that employers make. It cannot be the same punishment in the law provided for, if you leave it from 2,000 to 200,000, so from 1 to 100. It leaves an enormous potential for arbitration, so it must reduce that range, if we do not want to have that kind of arbitration of punishment, so if all these members who commit the employer, or who put it in an unfavourable position with the exact same sanctions, we will have something completely inappropriate to any legal order. Something that is almost incredible, that you have the same sanctions for something, let's say, if the employer doesn't report a job and conditions for working in that job to the employment organisation, and if the employee doesn't pay the salary within the time limit laid down in Article 64 of this law, the exact same sanction is provided under this law. Not to mention that Article 64 is excluded from legal traffic, which is the case. You know what the government meant here. That's what we've been talking about almost all day. So it seems to me that someone had to make a tabular division or separate certain views, that in different ways they were treated and that different heights were envisaged, different levels of punishment. It would then be possible to talk about whether a person is high enough or not, and in this way it is something that is absolutely impossible and there is no law in which the penalties of 1:100 will be left to the competent national authority to assess whether they will apply the lowest or maximum penalty, or which they will punish. This leaves enormous possibilities for what is called the arbitral behaviour of the state authorities, and we have seen thank God during this period that almost all the state authorities, and even the judicial authorities, which are not here, have acted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5419	Is anyone else applying for a discussion under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic. For 53, against 112, there were no abstentions, no vote of 20, a total of 185 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the bearer want a word? The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17. A bill on labour relations, where I believe that punishment is too high to be provided for by the amendments and additions of this law, which relate to Article 143 of the current law. First of all, I believe that this too high sentence, which is tenfold higher than the intended penalty for the sanctioning of the employer, would affect the overall survival of individual independent trade organisations. So, in the current law in Article 143, the level of fines was 1,000 dinars, and I also believe that the employer is obliged to respect and enforce the Labour Relations Act and should sanction a secure employer who does not meet obligations, does not pay workers a profit according to the contract and so on. I also believe that in cases where this criminal provision, proposed in Article 17, applies to those employers who practically do not have a daily market as high as this threatened penalty, would bring so many small private trades into the situation to be closed. Also, this article does not provide for ranges, as is done when it comes to legal persons. So this is where all the citizens are punished and the punishment is unique. Therefore, it is a unique punishment for those employers who have income, i.e. make more income, for example, than 100,000 dinars, as well as those who put on their pengetts, who cannot in a month achieve in some cases the value provided for by this article as the height of this penalty. I really don't understand (what the goal is) or perhaps it is, what the aim of this bill is. Is the goal of closing old shopping malls, craft shops, to bring to a small door what Serbian citizens now do not need, and that is to eat burgers and some other Mc Donald with bucourines instead of foaming shoes to start producing phantom nylon socks, ala Batic. So I have hope even though it is in a very rude, illegal way excluded from the session of the Parliament of Dr Vojislav Seselj, Goran Cvetanovic and Natasa Jovanovic, and the word taken from Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5421	Mr. Kesei, please stick to the subject. You went out for a pay phone as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5422	So, I have hope, although this has been done in a very rude way, that the DOS majority will show tolerance to these citizens who are subject to this law and accept this amendment, will not bring many employers and workers to whom the employer provides work in a very difficult situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5423	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Stevan Kesejic. For 49, against 114 abstentions, there were no, no 22 votes, a total of 185 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5424	On Article 17, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5425	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 17(1). Otherwise, Article 143 of the law so far in force under the criminal provisions under this article was the amount of 1,000 new dinars sanctioned by employers. Article 17 of the government's proposal envisions a new amount greater than 10,000, means a tenfold increase. The amendment I submitted to this article suggests that the amount of 10,000 dinars be reduced to 6,000. What directed me to endure this amendment lies in the next fact. It is doubtless, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, and it is not a fact that the Office for Accounting and Payment, following the financial operations of certain business entities, has an obligation to establish that this business entity does not fulfil the obligations it has, and in this case, Article 17 and provides that no minimum earnings or earnings are paid at all, so this institution is obliged to inform the competent ministry. Apparently, the competent ministry, taking note of this notification, also has an obligation and is obliged to inform its regional or regional inspection bodies. In this case, work inspection. Where labour inspectors obtain from the competent ministry the knowledge that they do not meet the obligations, that the economic operators do not, in this case, meet the obligations which are due, and in this case it relates to minimum earnings, the decision of that economic operator on-site to sanction the employer, i.e. the economic operator for not fulfilling those obligations. It's all right, and it's all a normal cycle, which is predicted by law. A penalty of 10,000 dinars, as proposed by the government, should probably have, given that it is tenfold higher compared to what has been in force so far, as provided for by this law, is intended and intended to call on the employer's mind and consciousness, and thus still using that legal form to make the employer pay for that minimum profit. However, if you look at the conditions and conditions in which you have not yet created today since you violently came to power on 5 October, you have not created the economy of such an environment and such ways, the economic circumstances for the economy to live up to, that the economy begins to work, in order to meet all other obligations and towards its employees, and they thus create conditions for the life and work of their families. Why do I suggest 6,000 dinars? Because the economy is in a situation in which it is and because your tenfold imposition or sanctions you're proposing is not appropriate right now. I think a reduced amount would be more appropriate, and on the other hand, to keep that legal remedy that is needed at the moment, which is sanctioning economic operators who are not subject to what they contract on labour and collective contract terra, which is, in this case, the payment of minimum earnings. I think the government should remember at what point we're living, that it's passing such laws, and in this case also criminal provisions that will be appropriate for the moment. I think that in any case, since, in this way, even the competent inspections, and the ministries will not benefit from that either, but these funds will go as additional funds to the budget, and probably after strictly dedicated to certain things, it could in this case accept that the amount of 10,000 dinars that are largely reduced to 6,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5426	Anyone else want a word? Here you go, there's the word Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5427	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is already the second amendment proposed by the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party that we are trying to point out and prove above all to the ruling majority that it would be good to reduce, and here it is, what is quite significant for those who have not read it or who are not referred to in the very text of the Amendment Law and Amendment Supplements, the so-called mandated penalties. So, that penalty that's being imposed on the spot, which the inspectors say on the spot and can do in any commercial, independent, craft shop, so they go to the cobblers, they come to the market on the counter, or anywhere, and they immediately impose a fine of 10,000 dinars. We think it would be incomparable if that punishment were lower. You've seen that we didn't want to, and we've been trying to say that it's necessary to pay a fine of 500 dinars, which at this point would be demagogue, but we've asked that this level of punishment actually decreases and that it should be on a certain level, that those who should pay for the violations they commit can bear. It seems to us that both proposals, the earlier proposal to be 5,000 and now the proposal on the agenda, MP Bozidar Vujic, his amendment, 6,000 dinars, are that they should be acceptable. And, one more thing. There is one illogicality in the response of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the parliamentary amendment, which calls for the Law on Violations and is said to be in line with the Law on Infringements, and when this was not necessary, when other laws were violated and what I was talking about was done, so secondary legislation, then they spoke of some other real needs. So it seems to me that it would be good if there was a single mechanism that would respond to amendments by MPs rather than only two or three members being completely contradictory. It would be good if someone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia were present to answer. Because no one in the ruling majority represents the government. He may be behind the government's proposal to speak, to praise the government, to criticise the government, but he does not represent the government. It seems to me that the Prime Minister and all the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia have been invited here, and I may not recognize any of them, but I don't see any of them here. I'd like you to correct me here, Mr. President, if I'm wrong. I would invite all MPs to vote in favour of this amendment and especially because it is a so-called mandate, which would not deprive themselves of the right of the state and that those who do their job, and above all those who have trade, independent trades, could do far safer, safer and more painless ways of doing their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5428	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendments of MP Vujic to the vote. For 55, against 112, abstention 2 did not vote 15, a total of 184 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17, paragraph 1 of the amendment was tabled by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that in this amendment the words "out of 10,000 dinars" be replaced by the words " out of 3,000 dinars". Given the difficult economic situation, I believe that the penalties proposed are high, and therefore I suggest that they be less. Penalties must be realistic, in order for the employer to be able to pay for it and continue to function. We'll be in a chaotic state. The wages are not 10 times higher, so the penalties must be consistent with this real life. Here you are today, starting with the penalties of Serbian radicals. Why are you systematically doing this? And in the previous period you have punished us, i.e. excluded our best representatives - Dr Vojislav Seselj, you have excluded Miss Natasa Jovanovic, Mr Goran Cvetanović, you have punished the warnings of Tomislav Nikolic, and today Dr Branislav Blazic. Is that how you think you get past that Rules of Procedure of yours? You're disturbed by our amendments, you're bothered by our replicas, you're disturbed by Serbian radicals, you're bothered by everything that comes from a quality opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5430	Anybody else answer for a word? There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5431	Since these are very related amendments, I would only warn you of one more thing, before you decide whether to vote, or not, for this amendment of the Serbian Radical Party MPs, which is that this text of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Law deletes the part that has so far been applied exclusively to the property of the legal person. So now, all rights are fully granted to the competent inspectors, who can express it, and to those who no longer have legal personality, as it was under the previous law, as it was in previous cases, and thus the obligations of all those who have their own craftsmanship, trade, in a terrible way, are strengthened, and are given incomparably greater rights and are given in the hands of uncomparably greater prerogatives to the authorities, and it seems to me that a kind of arbitration is being restored that we have been talking about so far. Indeed, now that Mr. Plužarevic has spoken, it is amazing that today, Mr. President, a reminder has again been given to the People's MP of the Serbian Radical Party, and the other MPs have not been told, although he only spoke, or even responded to what others have said here about Serbian radicals, but it seems to me, in the best way, that he is talking about the desire of some to establish an unfair relationship in the National Assembly, that some have certain rights, that some may speak of certain topics, and that certain topics must be taboo, because as soon as they start to speak, they should be immediately warned, taken away from the word, or be excluded from further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5432	If no one answers their words anymore, I'm putting MP Plužarevic's amendment to the vote. For 52, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote 18, a total of 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17, paragraph 1 of the amendment was tabled by MP Dragan Colic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 17(1). Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act. The words "out of 10,000 dinars" are replaced by the words "of 6,000 dinars". Given the difficult economic situation, I believe that the penalties proposed are high, as well as the fact that the new laws, all types of taxes and payments are enormously increased, I submit this amendment and I propose a lower amount of penalties. The severe economic crisis and social misery, the fines dramatically high, thus unencumbered appetite of the government of the Republic of Serbia shows that the DOS government has no mercy in its work relations, nor does it have a sense of the situation in which citizens and workers of Serbia are in. Big taxes - who will not pay drastically high fines, to the joy of citizens and workers of Serbia, who will not pay, can also seizing property. Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic said at the state DOS audit that his ministers were not successful in defending the proposed tax laws. They could not have been successful, when Serbian Radical Party MPs nakeded them in front of Serbian citizens. They've figured out what their future is and what awaits them under DOS rule. If Djindjic's ministers were not successful in defending the harrases they introduced, we expect that in the field, the tax collectors, the harras, will be very successful, even cruelly successful. Labour and Employment Minister Dragan Milovanovic, once head of the Union, led workers in the fight for their rights and interests, gave them hope for a better tomorrow, is now in a ministerial chair, with which attitudes and views are different. One spoke as a union leader, and now, surrounded by ministerial privileges, he would like to forget his earlier role. He'll forget, but the workers will always remember him as the very ability of a union camel.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5434	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 51, against 111, there were no abstentions, no 24 votes, a total of 186 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17, paragraph 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want to change the course of the session and this debate, but it seems to me, it must be said about what a small shadow fell on Thursday at this assembly session. First of all, three times during the session, I think Mr. President made a mistake when I was going out for this pay phone. First, when I said he was a member of 292, where state security officers shouldn't be in this room. That's in point number three, decadent and explained. Please, I won't insult anyone, I'll just...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5436	Mr. Zivanovic, it's not an insult, it's about us not having this debate, it's about the law in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5437	I'm really asking if you'll let me, you'll see that I won't insult anyone at all. But you saw state security officers come out of this room. So they were in this room after all. Secondly, Mr. Jovanovic also insulted me because he identified me with those villains, terrorists from Kosovo who were released from our prisons, and our people who were released from their prisons, you saw them lying in prisons broken, broken and when they were no longer capable of their work and their existence, as well as in hospitals. Thirdly, which is very important, and what no one in this assembly hall noticed, when Mr. Sabic interrupted the work of this assembly, the state security officer stood behind the camera and that camera was aimed at MPs, and especially Serbian Radical Party MPs. So please, don't let that happen again, but the state security officers get off the door of all the entrances. We will likely respect and respect the work and order of this congregation. Now I'm going to move to the agenda point. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm aware that the bill promoter wanted to stand in the way of the gray economy and the abuse of workers working in the wild. I'm asking you, the workers who are on paid leave, the firms who have regulated pension and disability insurance, but that's why the profits come from a wild employer. Until all of this is regulated, by another form of organization in companies, these penalties must be less, because the employer in some way protects the standard of workers, not the state and company that sent him to the paid office. Given the economic situation, the penalties proposed are high, as well as the fact that all types of taxes and payments have increased enormously, so I am submitting this amendment and I propose a lower amount of fines, which are replaced by 10,000 by 5,000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5438	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 53, against 110, no one with abstention voted 21, a total of 184 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 19. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs found that in Article 19. The bill needs to be implemented legally - technical order by, instead of the number: "64" should be the number "65". Does a representative of the Government accept the proposal of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs to carry out legal and technical redaction in Article 19, so that instead of the number "64", the number "65" is put in place? Sustained. ) I find that a representative of the Government has accepted this editorial and that this editorial has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed the review of the bill's proposal, in particular the amendment decision, does the proposal's representative want to reject the herds? No, I don't. ) I conclude the error of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Labour Relations Act, in general. I ask the MPs to vote. For 122, against 53, no one with abstention voted 10, a total of 185 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Labour Law. After we completed the 12th agenda, in accordance with Article 93. Rules of Procedure, I'm taking a break from one hour, and I'm asking the presidents of the parliamentary groups to conduct our consultations, to make an agreement on the further work of this and possibly another extraordinary session. Let's have that meeting at the first floor office right away. We're continuing 13 hours and 30 minutes. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the circumstances tell us not to attempt to continue this session now, but I will suggest that we extend the break to 15.30 hours, with notice of what agreement the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups made in this session, and inform you of the following: The presidents of all parties' parliamentary groups have agreed that today's session, after the day's regular work is over in 19.30, we will interrupt. Of course, that's what you'll plead. Tomorrow we will have a special session, a new session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with one item on the agenda, and that is - the resolution on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and the position of the Serbian people, and the continuation of this suspension will be on Monday, so, on the next day. We also agreed to consider the motion for a resolution, to bring it in tomorrow, to make sure that the debate is very effective, that we can adopt this resolution after an effective debate involving one or three representatives of each parliamentary group, that, after the end of this session, we will schedule a special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which will, of course, be discussed in such changed circumstances, without limiting the time and number of speakers, in the way we have agreed to do so now, take the debate and make the relevant conclusions on the issues that are open here. That's what we've informed the public about. Please make this agreement to the president of the parliamentary groups by your decision tonight at the end of the work and confirm. Now, I'd like to ask you to take another break, or continue the break by 3:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5441	Dear President, honourable MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed amendments to the Law in the area of employment. Social security is a case of insurance in case of risks that can arise in life and in work, including the risk of unemployment. Social security is based on the principle of reciprocity, as much as invested - so many rights are exercised, with a certain degree of solidarity. The amount and conditions of the exercise of the right, depending on the regularity, of the amount of wages, i.e. earnings and contributions paid on that basis. According to the social security system, the protection against unemployment covers not only the employees, but those who are unemployed and who are able to work and want to start a working relationship. This system provides the best protection to secure persons. The focus of development policy in the next period, given the degree of economic development achieved, should be on its own transformation, corporate restructuring, in the production, technological and organisational sense, and the implementation of a social programme that will form an integral part of the transition process. In order to address the problem of unemployment and redundancy of employees, and to create conditions for companies to operate on market principles, it is necessary that the state assumes an obligation to address the position and rights of employees who will be jobless. The extent of individual rights so far has been established by the system so that an extremely small number of employees could achieve, such as cash compensation, severances, job layoffs, and individual rights, payment of unemployment fees, were delayed for several months, as funds could not be provided. So they were rights only on paper, and the realization of these rights was practically not there, or it was insignificant. The establishment of levels and scope rights that enable businesses to move faster into transformation and restructuring should provide conditions for greater investment and development, greater earnings for those who work, and thus greater allocations to create new jobs, pensions, social protection and other rights. Many examples of forced vacation employees received a minimum profit of 280 dinars, and those who worked, in addition to the minimum earnings most often paid in goods, bonuses and hands, also received a food allowance during work, and a regress for the use of annual vacations. These company payments avoided the payment of liabilities based on contributions, and employees who were not aware that contributions were not paid, when they wanted to exercise individual rights, mostly from pension-inhabited unemployment insurance, as well as long-term sick leave, were placed in a position that they could not achieve those rights. The introduction into the gross earnings system, the payment of earnings in cash, as well as the mandatory payment of contributions to all personal incomes, will ensure that employees on the basis of social security achieve an adequate amount of rights, in the amount of contributions paid. The basis for the exercise of social security rights is all the receipts paid for. The introduction of a gross system has established a single basis for paying taxes and contributions, for compulsory social security and profit. In the case of gross earnings, other personal income paid by the employer on the basis of a working relationship, such as a food allowance during work, a regression for the use of annual vacations and a field allowance, which extends the obligations and reduces the rate of contributions, creates conditions for reducing the fiscal burden or obligation of employers. The basis on which the contribution is paid is entered into the exercise of individual rights. The maximum and minimum amount of cash compensation so far has been established in the net amount, the proposed solution in the nominal amount remains the same, only as the percentages change, since the amount of cash compensation is subsequently determined, in relation to gross earnings. The minimum basics according to the professional preparation of the place of employment to which the contribution is paid, by being established in the draft law, are the nominal amount relative to gross earnings. This legal solution also provides greater social security rights, as the basis for the exercise of these rights is paid in contribution. One number of employers avoided payment of contributions from compulsory social insurance by paying their profits by hand, or in goods, or in bonuses, thus bringing employees into an extremely difficult position because they could not exercise pension and disability insurance rights, and insurance in the event of unemployment. Since the right to insurance is one of the basic guaranteed rights under the Constitution, and the obligation of the employer to contribute to the employee on the lowest basis and when he has not paid the profits is also established. The control of the payment of the contribution is tightened and the tax authorities are obliged to take appropriate measures against employers if they do not make the payment of the contribution. The law also provides for significant changes in the way the Republic Labour Market Office manages, which provides greater responsibility, given that the Governing Board and the Supervisory Board, appoints and resolves the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The members of the Management Board shall propose employers' associations, trade union organisations of the unemployed, organised at the level of the Republic. The proposed changes have been fully respected by existing pluralism, organised by employers, trade unions and unemployed and provided adequate representation of their representatives in the management of the Republic Labour Markets Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5442	Is the Committee's rapporteur answering for word? If not, the presidents of the parliamentary groups. Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5443	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the almost undetected presentation of Mr. Minister who cares about the rights of employees, unemployed persons, persons who will retire, persons who will be out of work. How come it doesn't go unnoticed, when he tried to explain this bill, he only finds what's in it, which is better than the system that regulated this matter so far. This law is one of those who prepares us for, if at all, the situation in the country, for a period after the summer when we will be hit by more serious, much more dangerous laws, which will have much more serious consequences for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is one of the laws that we're going to try to criticise by showing how much worse workers are than current laws and how much worse employers are than current laws. The government of the Republic of Serbia succeeds in failing anyone so far, to write a bill that neither workers nor employers can be satisfied. I remember years ago while today's prime minister was in opposition, one year trying to win the election, he also brought Cassandra to Belgrade. It seems that she would better regulate some relations in the country than the ministers he acquired in different ways by the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. What's wrong? What's gonna get worse? What are we supposed to warn the citizens about? You see, and when the tax and excise laws were passed and we were saying that there was going to be a coup, that there would be congregations, the government justified it by analysing in two or three trade agreements and saying that there were no purchases, and here we find out from day to day that our MPs were right when they pointed out what was waiting for us if you adopted these laws. Here, today even the newspaper is rebelling against the Transport Tax Act, which you have brought to your majority, newspapers that support you today, but now the burden of support is being transferred to readers, so they say - excuse me, to this day with 10 dinars, the price of daily newspapers to support us, and now the new law has entered, and what we have to pay in the name of the tax is our monthly fund. Under the new law, no more remittende, and as of today, dear readers pay 15 dinars of daily newspapers. This law, which we have before us, once again shows a kind of inhumaneness toward the people who set in years. I know it's cruel capitalism, and again I warn that it can't just be applied to our society, that before there are more parties in the ruling coalition that in their name have the social, social, socialist, as they are already called and which should care little about the human character of every citizen to whom this law will be applied. Already in the first article, this law says that people who are 30 years old and over should no longer have some rights that they have so far under dictatorial authority. They can no longer wait for a peaceful or age pension, or a pension on a second basis, but the stairs are coming down to 25 years and they are practically when, at 31, 32, 33, the internships are out of work, the minister tells them to look for a new job. He says - the provisions of Article 1 of this law are directed by those who have not been very interested in finding a job (to find a job) to find a job in this Serbia where the economy has been a mess since you came to power, in which the economy will only be in chaos after the summer, to find jobs for people who are 33 years old and our children are not employed. Now imagine a cruel employer, a strategic partner who comes from France, and says, "I'm not hiring children of 25 years, I want those who are 33 years old." You see, these older citizens of ours who are still legally capable of working, and half of them use drugs, not because they're sick, but because the biological organism comes into a situation that the heart, lungs, muscles can no longer function like a young man, and some medicines are needed, and they can work. When he goes to the drugstore this morning to buy access, he's gonna need 780 dinars for a box that cost 120 dinars. When he goes to buy an Andol now he needs 80 dinars for the board. You don't care about that. You're talking about what happened, you're constantly surprised how bad it was. I think you're right when you say it was bad, but I guess you've convinced us in these six months since you've been in power that it's been really bad and it's time for you to convince us that it can be better, but no bill that's been in the process so far or that in the procedure you've convinced us that there are better solutions, but only worse. Now the employer pays on a whole new basis contributions. What does that mean when you and the educators have agreed somewhere around 4,000 dinars of average salary, that you will settle for them by the fall, and at 7,000 dinars, his employer will pay taxes and contributions. There is now 12,000 as a basis for payment of contributions under this law. Who will have such a salary, except for the MPs and some other director. I thought only the Socialists had MPs and when we were here, when the Assembly was established, in the ruling majority, no MP was the director. Here are now several months after the constitution, the directors among the ruling majority MPs are already identified and all run by some companies where there is no responsibility for the organisation of the work, in which the work itself is being made. Public enterprises, monopolies. Let's see where the director is going to go to the car factory, where he's the director who's going to go to Sartid and be the MP here, and then after two months he comes in and endures this kind of torture of power, who doesn't even know what production is. This bill is no good. If you had any sense, you wouldn't have mentioned it, and if the president had a little understanding for the MPs, he wouldn't have waited for me to be warned about what I'm responding to, but he would have said up there - don't disturb the speaker behind the pay phone. However, the president is tasked with taking away his word, throwing out radicals, and that is why you without a brain that knows nothing about this law only throws away. Unlike you, I can throw, and I read the laws, so the advantage is always on my side. You don't have to accept this law. Neither did the one who wrote this written explanation nor the one who wrote the minister's explanation convince us that this law was good, or I would like this minister who defends all these laws to come out without paper, to get the minister out, and that we MPs understand that this man knows this matter completely. Here I am telling Mr. Milovanovic, there is time to the next item of the agenda, and I think it's also his law, if he's ready to speak without paper and explain the law, here I am going to resign as MPs to be someone else's MP. But when such a man explains the bill, which the other wrote to him, which he explained to him, a man who was supposed to think as a union manager when he read this bill, when he no longer deals with it, the question is what more can he do in life. Gentlemen of the union, you who are still engaged in the union struggle, not you who are MPs and ministers, read this law as trade unions. Does this law bring good or bad to your membership? I think it brings bad and it's a lot of inhuman law. We'll prove that to the amendments no matter what the notion of gross earnings you've forced us to mathematically calculate what workers will receive from now on and what they will be obliged to single out employers. I think this law is one in a series of those who bring bad to both workers and employers, but it will bring good to strategic partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5444	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5445	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs and members of the government. Let me say a few words about the draft law on amendments to the Employment and Rights Act. I do not think that this bill should be adopted because it is unfair, for the unemployed, restrictive, favours the interests of the state in relation to the interests of the employees, i.e. individuals and without any additional social components, i.e. the social programme. The bill is unfair and restrictive because it reduces the existing rights of unemployed people. According to current legal solutions, an unemployed person, who had been retired for 30 years and over, has earned the right to cash compensation from the Employment Market Office, i.e. to obtain pension rights. Now the right to cash compensation can be made for the longest 24 months. What do faces with over 25 and over years of work? What if a working man with 50 or more years of life does, even if he's a woman or possibly a disabled person? Who will take them back to work, and what collectives will they be employed in? What does it mean to explain that such people are not stimulated to seek employment? Who doesn't want to get a job and what conditions? It is extremely inhumane to leave these people out of work, or without any compensation unless the Labour Market Office offers them a job. The reduction in the rights of the unemployed is particularly noteworthy in the context of an existing economic situation characterised by a decline in industrial production from employment, low capacity employment, an increase in liquidity and economy, a normal increase in cost of life, and a return to the number of unemployed, which will certainly continue to increase in the privatisation process. This is also announced by the trade unions, and this could also be heard by the Registrar in the light of the bill that should be on the agenda of this assembly. Industrial production decreased by 0.8% in January-March 2000 compared to the same period last year, while the average production from last year was 1.2% lower. The Institute of Market and Research published data a few days ago that production in April of this year was lower by 3.9% compared to April last year. Capacity employment is low and averages about 30%. Individuality of the economy takes up the general situation so that it can be claimed that over 60% of the operators are non-equity. Under such conditions, the very mild trend in the decline in the number of unemployed last year was quite logically interrupted. In February this year, over 730,000 people were unemployed. Compared to the previous period, the number of unemployed averaged by around 4.5% per month. In the next period, that number will be higher, I said, because of the economic flows and the privatisation that follows us. The increase in the number of unemployed persons is a natural consequence of the situation in which Serbia's economy, where the government does not give, in my opinion, sufficient attention to production, which could, of course, be seen in the debate on the budget and in other government statements, or representatives. On the basis of the introduction of the market economy, the government actually creates one non-equal, non-productive, low-priced economy, creating conditions for privatization and transformation of the economy that will result in a large number of unemployed people. In addition to the worst things that can happen to any employed man, which is the loss of a job, this bill puts an unemployed person, and that's exactly what has a long job experience, and they're close to retirement, and they're also facing a situation where the state's reduction of these rights, practically raises its hand and leaves it to its own destiny. The government's relationship is neither social nor human, nor just. Under two, the bill should not be adopted and because it favours the state in relation to employees, i.e. citizens. The state is obviously concerned with protecting itself, i.e. providing the employee with the means and the employee with regard to making a living. This proposal inaugurates the principle of inequality of the legislator towards the employer and the employee, to the detriment of the employees. Namely, unless the employer pays the earnings in the obligation to pay social security contributions to the employee on the lowest basis. It is not disputed that profits should be paid and contributions with them. However, if the employer does not have the means to pay the employee, he will most likely not have the means to pay the contribution. The proposed legal solution basically means pay the government, and the employee if you can. I believe that in a situation where there is no money for both profit and contribution, that a reasonable solution should be found, a fair solution, that if there is an equal distribution of funds for both profit and contribution, that no contributions can be paid unless profits are paid and vice versa, and not one can, the other cannot. For these reasons, which are contained in this bill, which in my opinion is to the detriment of Serbian citizens, both employees and those who lose their jobs, I do not think this law should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5446	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering for a word anymore, the first registered MP is MP Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5447	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Rights Act came before us on February 21st, and then on March 15, 2001, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment and Law on the Rights of Unemployed Persons came again, and the previous proposal from February was put forward ad act, which alone says that the Government has a vision of what will happen and after 20 days changes what it proposed at the beginning. Article 1 of this law states that those who have more than 25 years of training and go to the Bureau for some reason can use it for two years. Before it was, the one who goes away at 30, or more, that right can come to retirement. And it's kind of cynical, I have to read it, because everybody doesn't do it, and it's not burning to hear it, the explanation -- why just 24 months. So he says, "According to the solution so far, an unemployed person who has been insured for 30 years and over has been entitled to cash compensation for employment, i.e. to the right to pension. This solution did not stimulate unemployed persons to seek employment. Most often they worked on black, while at the same time exercising the right to cash compensation and payment of contributions to pension-inhabited insurance. It is therefore proposed that the right to cash compensation can be achieved for the longest 24 months." This could hardly have been written by someone 30 years old. With more than 30 years of internships, we are in all parliamentary groups, who have worked 20 and change, or 30 and change years. We know that 30 years ago, whoever got a job didn't learn to joke. Maybe now some people who start working think they can joke and not work. But 30 years ago, the biggest shame was to be late for work. We're late here every day for at least an hour at the beginning. Therefore, it is unserious, even rude, that such people, who have spent and worked for so many years, are practically characterized by this explanation as some of the last guillipters and jibbies, who are looking to use something that doesn't belong to them. And it will be that it belongs to them, certainly more than to him who has suggested this. We have one such situation, like this one, to deliver the law, so it retreats, so another one is delivered, which is a little bit more sophisticated. It's the same, (like), situation with the government's regulation. Since I was here last time, commenting on another law, I was told there was a regulation, and then I was told there was another regulation in public enterprises, but it was only one right, which was abolished (that a public company could hire someone new). That regulation was abolished, and others were given the right, and still no other, which is probably some daughter of a regulation, when she's older in power, so some of the following daughters of the regulations have to define the right for the worker to get, when he retires, to be stimulated, to have overtime, paid in cash, that's what the law says. It has even been said that collective agreements must comply with June 1st, and how to align them, when there is a regulation and so on. One more thing I want to say from this pay phone, which is that I expect this assembly to finally know one thing - that there is a decision in this assembly (there is a decision by 30% of MPs in the Assembly, who are in a permanent working relationship in Skuština), and there are 70% of MPs who make their receipts elsewhere. I think it would finally be both correct and fair to determine one day a week, whether it will be Mondays or Fridays, that the Assembly does not work, that those who receive wages elsewhere can appear, that people do not forget that there are still those people working and receiving wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5448	There's a word from MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5449	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on employment and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons is similar to the previous laws. He's regimeal. Why is it regimeal? Because you're not going to Europe with him. One law takes you to Europe, and another law takes you to 1948, since it is a post-revolutionary year in 1948, it is the same in 2001 as the post-revolutionary year. How are you going to hire workers when you mainly want to fire, is the attitude of the Association of Free and Independent Unions, or Minister Milovanovic. Your employer's wish is to provide safe and cheap labour with this law. This would allow new owners to receive both capital and cheap labour by arriving, i.e. by owning a transformation. By law which is on the agenda of 18 members, (one more law) which is changed from the conglomerates of the law, only the system of which we already saw in previous laws the essence and essence. The proposed amendments and additions to the employment law and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons do not provide adequate protection for unemployed persons. This is because this law is restrictive against the economic power of the employer and plans to develop the economy in general. In fact, the basic goal of every society and our development of the economy, which creates the possibility of hiring workers, prosperity and the progress of society in general. At that time, any proposed protection of workers would be possible, as the employer could unobstructedly generate income and make the proposed benefits for pension and social security, so no such penalties would be necessary. It wouldn't have happened if the 25-year-olds were out of a job. It would only be exceptions. It is likely that changes and additions can be made this way in developed countries of Europe. I understand the DOS's drive to meet the European Union's demands, but they too must understand that an undeveloped economy cannot build a European standard. They have to understand that they have to give those six billion dollars to make the economy work and that employers can meet the deadlines for paying pension and social insurance benefits. In the conditions in which our economy lives and works, this is unimaginable and unimaginable for 3/4 businesses. If we have in mind that NATO's aggressors have destroyed a large part of our production capacity and it hasn't been full for two years since then, then we get the impression that this DOS government, which has just come to power with the all-out and economic aid of NATO's aggressor countries, wants to fully devalue the few production capacities that we have left behind and that we have restored, and that's why they're selling to those countries that bombed us. This will simply explain that the proposed changes show that one who does not pay compensation for pension and social insurance, in addition to the fines that are too high for the employer, also foresees a ban on working within 30 to 90 days. So it's better not to work, but to work and create some income, so the worker hires, and I'm sure that's how many businesses are going to be shut down and there's going to be job layoffs. It only declares that they are provided with some protection through compensation during their employment, as well as compensation for the transfer of workers. These compensations are nominally less than those they receive today at the end of their working relationship. In addition, this law is closely related to previous economic laws, since it is the basis for taxing gross personal incomes and other incomes. It's all under the farce to make pension workers bigger, and who can guarantee, first, who will experience pension and how much to enjoy, then, whether there will be a terrible inflation again and so forth. The goal is to fill the 2001 budget, and what happens to workers and businesses, we'll see. As some MPs have said in the past days, an entrepreneur or a businessman, that is, the company will not be able to pay personal income in groceries as it has been, but only in money, which is not there. He won't be able to buy machines for work, if he's taken credit and currently has funds in his account, until he pays off the necessary fees, that is, contributions to the state. However, since we know that you will accept these changes, because you are the majority in this assembly, I suggest you accept them as soon as possible and be sure of the first major layoff, you are going back in history with some new bagger. I think it's time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5450	The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5451	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, I will vote against this draft law on employment and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons. The reasons for my mistrust in this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia consist primarily of mistrust with Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, and then, according to everything that makes it an unnatural and highly analytical DOS coalition. The situation in this sphere and in the field of employment is the same as in all other spheres. It was caused by the collapse of the economy. No serious company works, everyone's waiting for something. Probably the results of various white world donors' conferences. Maybe they're hoping for six billion dollars. People in businesses are without motive. Without any motive are people who need to work and produce, and what motives only those who wait to eventually work and fight for their existence. Since the once-worthy creators, known for their industriousness throughout the world, we have now become the most famous beggars, very resilient in the expectation that America or the European Union will give us something for the service of the role played by this unnatural government. It won't be better until we all realize that from the economic crisis we can only recover gradually and until our hopes begin to build on faith in our own strengths, resources of wealth and intelligence. Europe is no one's, and it won't do anyone any better...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5452	Mr. Colic, I'm asking you to move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5453	And all the evil that has happened to us throughout history is from Europe and its crazy daughter America. I don't trust the government of Zoran Djindjic, I don't trust a representative of the government under this bill. Mr. President, I think I'm really talking about the subject. Serbia needs a serious man, an honest host who loves his country above all else. Zoran Djindjic is not that. He also declared himself a cosmopolitan or man of some newly created international parliament. How can I trust the government's representative, Minister Milovanovic, when he easily traded all his ideas and hopes for the ministerial chair, and changed the union leader's role for the main role in confrontation with those who were the leader by yesterday. Minister Milovanovic's camouflage is flatly camouflaged by the camel, because the law you offer today to MPs at the vote cannot bring better relations in the field of employment. The theory is one thing, and practice is another. Practice teaches us that DOS is not to be trusted for reasons that, for all this time, neither of the laws adopted so far, Serbian citizens are and will benefit. They felt only bitter taste of diapers and bile, after drinking numerous glasses of tax obligations. Serbian citizens with great interest and attention follow the session of the National Assembly and wonder what they dreamed and what happened to them. They say they didn't vote for this, and I believe them, as I believe the period of disappointment and awareness will last until new elections, when they will have the opportunity to correct their wrong belief in DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5454	The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic, followed by MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5455	The honourable MPs, both these amendments and additions to the Employment and Rights Act, as well as other laws in the field of labour and social legislation, are the result of the adopted tax package, which the assembly majority here adopted. Practically, all that we have adopted in this assembly, I think in the new assembly's new assembly, is the legal preparation for the key law that interests you from DOS, that is, the government of Zoran Djindjic. It's the Privatization Act. That's what you're interested in. It is quite certain that such a concise law on privatisation, as it is already announced through the press, will not do any good to the employees. It's perfectly certain that the army of people will be out of a job. The previous law, which the DOS majority adopted, and I mean the Labour Relations Act, was tasked with making future bosses as cheap as possible when they fired workers. That's why you've reduced so-called severances three times. This law, however, has been tasked with reducing the cost of the state’s administration’s mass layoff of workers. This will inevitably take place, as a result of this privatisation law, you will agree with me. What did you predict with these changes and additions? First of all, to reduce the obligation to the unemployed in relation to the existing solution. You took the largest tax package from the economy and the population, and you intend to give it back very little to the people. That's obvious. Where will you spend that money, if you have no intention of returning it to the people? We Serbian radicals know where you'll spend them, but it's not convenient to tell the people once again where their torment and sweat will go, where their money will go. They will be spent by Gašo Knezevic on some of his education reforms, will be spent by Covic on the formation of his party, will then be spent by these powerful agencies that you formed at the government, and where you employed your wives, your aunts, aunts and what I know about who everyone. For these purposes, there is money from the budget, and for the unemployed, very little or nothing. I'm interested in how you think you're amortizing that big blow from the unemployed? By giving them three months a half a salary? Is that your social program? Are these the arguments you intend to make with the trade unions to start the so-called social dialogue that you are announcing. I'm sure you won't get away with it with the union. The fact that you bought one union president and appointed him a minister, and the other one as a MP, it won't help you. You'll be blown away by people's and workers' dissatisfaction with the political scene, I'm convinced. You know, the folk thing, it's not bad to remember, the scribes aren't in trouble, it's not for the Turks to eat, but the work of poverty is a paradise that evil can't stand. Just because you and the union presidents are in the middle of a deal doesn't mean the union's gonna get away with it. You should listen to this folk wisdom. And then here you've predicted the minimum bases on which insurance contributions are paid, ranging from 3,000 to 13,000 dinars, so that's the basis for the contribution rates for the insurance companies. We all know that the average salary in Serbia is 4,000 dinars, and you predicted the average to be on the payment of the normal contribution of 7,000 dinars, about when you looked at the qualification structure and when you did one analysis, that's it. It's a lot of brother-in-law this government is, it's very sloppy in the income side when it's about to collect income from the population and the economy, but it's very stingy when it comes to bringing it back to the people. I wonder where this poor economy is gonna pay for it. And finally, the greatest pearl is that you've yet to predict that the employer has to pay the contributions, whether or not he's paid the wages to the workers. So the state has to pay its dues, regardless of whether the workers have received the salaries. I'm interested in where there's such a solution in the world. Look, that's very interesting, he suggested, such a legal solution was proposed by the minister who was the union president. So, the workers' tribunal. I don't know if that minister is allowed to appear in front of the workers after all this and this previous law. I doubt it, Mr. Minister, you'll do well if you show up. So, to finish, and these solutions are in these proposed amendments and additions to the employment law are in function of the Privatisation Act. The law, which you are most interested in from DOS. The government's obvious intention is to place companies in a difficult material position, so that they become easier prey for future customers, or strategic partners, as you call them. A company that can't pay the wages to the workers will either be granted free of charge or very cheaply sold. Look, when a buyer comes in and says he and this firm hasn't been paying the workers' wages for a year or five months, it immediately means a signal to offer very little and to ask the state to grant him a free company. With such fiscal burdens, you will put almost all businesses in Serbia in a position that they can't pay off workers' earnings and thus prepare for cheap sales. In the end, probably our viewers are wondering, what is the motive for you to pass these laws. We know what the motive is, and you know what the motive is, and I guess the people know what the motive is. They're commissions. Mass commissions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5456	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic, and after that, MP Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5457	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Mr. Minister, ladies and fellow MPs, I am also one of those who thinks that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons should not be accepted, should not at least be in the form proposed here. First of all, because there are no reasons to pass this law, and some explanations of certain provisions are neither logical nor rational. As an argument for these claims, I offer the following: 1) concerning the reasons for the adoption of the law. For reasons, it is said: "The gross earnings include other personal incomes paid by the employer on the basis of a working relationship, such as food allowance during work, a regression for the use of annual vacations and a field allowance, thus increasing obligations, and reducing the rate of contributions creates conditions for reducing the fiscal burden, i.e. the obligation of employers". First of all, I don't see from this law that it's some kind of rate. At least I didn't see what the rates were. Even if he did, we don't have any proof of what it looks like in the extremes. Because if we're even reducing some rates somewhere, and we're expanding the base on the other side, we need to see if there's any correlation in that. In this explanation, we have no proof of such a thing. Secondly, my colleague StevanGuduric has already quoted and I will not quote that member as referring to an explanation, which is why someone who turned 30 and more years of internships when he can no longer have the right to receive some compensation until retirement. So I'm not going to quote an entire member, but I only want to extract one pearl from this article. The pearl reads: "This solution did not stimulate unemployed persons to seek employment, and most often worked on black, while at the same time achieving the right to cash compensation and to pay contributions to pension and disability insurance." Such an explanation is, at least, malignant and cynical, because it means that whoever turned 30 and more years of training, then lost his job, after two years if he didn't get a job, and who's going to take people over 30 years of internship and where to receive, practically, has to wait for an old retirement, and so long as he lives as well as he can, without having any obligation to the one who sent him to the street or who sent him to wait, who sent him to spend that year until retirement on the street. Finally, Article 20 mentions reductions from 70% to 60%, from 50% to 40% and so on. You know, if there's even some correlation between gross, now, profits and what used to be called minimum wage, if there are even correlations, and I also have no proof that there's a correlation, and why exactly 70% to 60% and 50% to 40%, but then why if we advocate that this law serves workers, why are we now limiting and saying -- and up to 80%, and we've had 100% before. So my pledge is that in that part of this law, which is said to be, when someone goes 30 years of training, it's as if it's 25, it's not true, it's true how it used to be. The second pledge is not to limit what is said to 80% but to some minimum average. So that's what I'm up to. Finally, quite well-intentioned, although at least I was invited to give counsel to Mr. Secretary or to be concerned about his fate. Mr. Minister became a minister in the government, not because he was the most professional or competent, but as the president of an independent union association, joined the DOS, which was a winning party in the elections, and as such came to be minister in this government. So he became that because those he represented had proper expectations. These are expectations that they will fight for their rights and that they will exercise those rights and that they will try to achieve those rights. Your efforts so far, but it's none of my business, obviously not in favor of what we came here for, but I hope you learn from it. Really, it's not my place to advise you. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5458	The word is given by MP Hranislav Peric, followed by MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5459	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, another amendment to the law is on the agenda. In the old law, Article 14, 20, Article 27j, Article 33, 36 and 41, and we get a new law on employment, in the rights of unemployed persons. In all the laws where changes and additions are proposed, it changes, instead of net earnings, is gross earnings. Gross earnings will be the basis for tax accounting, which means in the translation that income tax will be paid on everything a company worker receives, and that is: earnings by effect, profits on a warm meal, transportation, regress, night work, state holiday, overtime and so on. We have to admit that this law is well-imaginable in order to fill the budget, but not to counter the effect and to empty the company registers in a short time and that workers have nothing to accept and create conditions that businesses have to sell for small money. The second change in all laws is the basis on which the contribution is calculated and paid for the insurance companies, which was given tabularly in each law, compared to 3,033 dinars to 4.427 dinars in workers, up to 9,409 with the university and no more than 12,724 dinars with a doctorate. The question is whether these companies will have to pay and whether we will pay for work or diplomas this way. There will be problems in applying the law in practice. In practice, people with different degrees of diploma work on the same jobs. Will it have a different basis for calculating contributions, and later on, a different amount of pension, as well as income? The third amendment, which is very important for the company's work and changes in all laws, in relation to the existing law, are criminal measures for businesses and individuals, if the laws do not apply. Wasn't it rational and to spend less paper and to waste less time, that we put these three most important changes in the laws on paper and listed all the laws that we make. If we apply the basis for the calculation of the contribution, given by the legislator, to companies in practice, to pay wages, whether it is correct and solidarity, and if we apply the law of the legislator in workers whose work has ceased to be necessary and we send two workers from 25 years of employment to paid 24 months, as far as they are entitled under the law, under Article 20(1), where the minimum remuneration is established 40 %. One is a worker with a salary of 3,033 dinars, the other with a high volume of 10,510 dinars. Does this mean that the worker will receive 1,400 dinars and a colleague with a high volume of 5,000? They both lost their jobs, they both sit at home, and the question is, where's the solidarity? If the difference is when they work, why do we make a difference when they don't work and when they don't have the effect and when they don't make a profit for the company? The fines are up to 200 grand for the company. We have companies with 20 and 30 workers, whose payroll is 200 grand to pay their salaries and taxes. If the company isn't able to do that, does it make sense and purpose to punish the company with 200 grand? Speaking of criminal measures, the law states that the company is obliged to pay all taxes on the basis of the basic state and the tax on workers as long as it remains, and in several businesses and nothing, irregularly, and less than the basics than the tax. When we talk from the Socialist Party about taxes, someone comes out of the government all the time and says that taxes are smaller or the same as last year and they're always on this topic of debate and replication. I'd like that myself. That's what you gentlemen ministers can say by June, until all the laws we're making are in force. We can't speak any further, we can't speak any more, because the truth will see the sight and see who's telling the truth behind this rumor and who's telling the truth. Every citizen will see what is what, when he gets all the solutions and all the bills, and that, the electricity bill, the phone bill, the mobile tax, the taxes on cars, taxes on weapons, taxes on property, taxes on land, taxes on house and apartment, taxes on communals, taxes on transportation, taxes on a warm meal, and I hope that by the end of the month we adopt some more taxes. More than once, ministers say and talk about how bad it was done and that the previous government didn't know it was working. I'd like a minister to come out and talk to us, tell us what you're doing, you're not in power yesterday because time has passed, since October it's more than six months, and we're already in the fifth month this year. A year is not 20 months, you're in power, you're working, don't let your work be a story of us, because it's become a profession for some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5460	The word has a National MP Nebojsa Jovic, followed by Rade Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5461	Dear Members of the People, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Law on the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons, repealing a provision under which an unemployed person who has been insured for 30 and more years has been paid up to the day of employment, i.e. to meet the conditions for retirement, to leave for retirement, in accordance with the rules on pension and disability insurance. By amending the existing law, you suggest that the right to cash compensation can be achieved for a maximum of 24 months, and this explains that the worker was not stimulated to seek employment, and most often works on black, while achieving the right to cash compensation and to pay taxes and contributions both to pension and disability insurance. I don't think such a finding stands, because I don't know what that employer has a desire and a need to hire a 50-60-year-old worker, in terms of getting better when there's extra labour everywhere. In today's conditions, you can't hire a young worker, not a 50-60-year-old man. I therefore propose to the Government to find a way to enable an unemployed person who has been insured for 25 years and over to receive the right to cash benefits for employment, i.e. in the exercise of pension rights. If the proposed 24-month solution is adopted, a secure person who has 30 years of work experience, and receives a 24-month cash compensation, that's 32 years of work experience, and then becomes a social case. I would not want Serbia to become a country of social cases and not to give God a name - strategism. The amount of cash compensation is determined in an amount of 60% of the average income of an unemployed person, in accordance with the law, or collective contract, in the last three months when the worker is jobless, plus 2% for each year's insurance standing. That cash fee can't be below 40% or above 60%. So far, the solution has been of 70% of the net output, and you think that in the nominal amount, that amount will be neither greater nor smaller, except that the percentages change. I'm not sure that's the case, because if the government thinks that gross earnings are going to make a warm meal, a field supplement, an annual regression, that it's all going to be personal, I don't think it's going to be like that, because in these conditions, the employer won't have any interest, and neither are the conditions to pay the benefits so far. There's been a lot of table reviews in this assembly, so I'd like to ask a table view here too, to see exactly whether this nominal amount is real, whether it's larger or smaller, or whether it's still the same. He may have stayed the same, but make sure the weather isn't the same, it's not the same to receive a cash fee to work, and to retire in just 24 months, and after that, I don't know what's gonna happen to that worker. What Minister Djelic says may well be. Tax and contribution payments are being tightened, and I think anyone who's in favour of the rule of law can say hello. However, you oblige the employer to provide the Institute with the exact calculation and payment of taxes and contributions within three days, from the day of payment of taxes and contributions. I think it's a pure statistic, and by Article 27j. the law, you shall oblige the competent organisation and the payment agent to inform the competent tax authority in its space, an employer who has not paid or has not paid taxes and contributions, to carry out the calculation and payment of the contribution, and the tax authority shall, within 8 days, be obliged to do so. The tax authority will bring a solution, after the deadline, and the appeal does not keep it done, and there will be a jury account blockade, a forced payment, and what do we get? We get workers to lose their jobs. Which inspector can ban work from 30 to 90 days, I wonder how to pay for those obligations that have not been paid once a month, and how he'll create for those months, for which he won't work. By introducing a gross system, a single basis for paying taxes and contributions, for compulsory social security, you are changing the basis, that is, the gross base, and you are no longer talking about rates. Contribution rates remain the same for now. I don't know what tax discharge is. You're introducing gross earnings, you think that gross earnings should go into the field supplement, the regress for the vacation for the reason it was a grey economy. I think it's clear to everyone in this room what makes the gray economy, and the job is for you ministers, who until yesterday were the president of the Syndicate, because you claim that one number of employers avoids paying contributions to compulsory social security, paying off profits on their hands, in goods and in bonuses, which brings an employee into an extremely difficult position, so they couldn't exercise their rights based on pension and disability insurance and unemployment insurance. I have to remind you, and you should know, by law of 1996 and these payments, it's been an obligation to pay taxes and contributions. I can document to you the solutions of the tax authority, the financial police, which was in the work organisation where such payments were found, and there were also bills and taxes and contributions. So there is such a solution, even in the existing 1996 Law. I think it's something that's good for a worker, it's that one who's employed within the meaning of Article 40a. This law has the right to profit which cannot be less than a minimum profit, and that is the correct solution when it is taken into account that so far the guaranteed earnings of 280 dinars, which really could not secure the status of workers, have been valid. The law says that the Minister responsible for Finance and Economy Affairs, Minister of Labour, Minister of Health, Minister of Social Affairs, agree on a way of calculating taxes and contributions, as well as on the content of the form set out in Article 3 and please, Mr Minister, if you are still cooperating and if you are unique, that since the law enters into force on 1 June, you will prescribe the method of accounting and the form in which this will be done, but I suggest that this law, if you cannot, enter into force, if not, to enter into force on 1 September 2001. For what? In Article 17, you say that the provisions of Article 20(2) of this Act apply to the accounting and payment of cash compensation, starting on 1 September 2001. This Article of Article 20(2) reads - the cash compensation is determined in terms of the position of the 1st member and cannot be lower than 40%, nor higher than 80% of the average monthly earnings, per employed, achieved in the economy of the Republic, according to the latest published data by the Republic's Office in charge of statistics affairs. Please, Minister, yes, it is humanly wrong and human to receive a mistake, that Article 20 of attitude 1 cannot enter into force on 1 June 2001. Why can't he? He says "the amount of cash compensation is determined by 60% of the average unemployment income, made in accordance with the law, or collective contract in the last three months preceding the month in which he ends his employment relationship, increased by 2% for each year's insurance internship". I'm asking you, if the worker is out of a job on June 2nd, how's the cash compensation going to be charged to him, in terms of gross earnings. In three months, you can only earn gross earnings on September 1st, July and August. So this position of Article 1 of Article 20 must also take effect on 1 September 2001, for this reason I suggest that this law enter into force on 1 September 2001, not as you propose on 1 June 2001. Look at the ministers, you'll realize you've made a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5462	The People's MP Rada Bajic has the word, and let the MP Mr. Toma Busetic prepare for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5463	Dear fellow Members of the People, reading and analysing the law, or the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Employment and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons, I have observed three specifics that mark this law that is before us, which, to a considerable extent or better, make the situation of both workers and employers more drastically worse. What's this about? The first one says point 6 is changed and it is 24 months if a face has been secured for 25 years. So far it's been 24 months from 25 to 30 years, and from 30 years of age, it's been uninterrupted until it finds a job across the labour market or regulates pension rights. As my colleagues have already said and quoted here, there is indeed one cynical argument that over 30 years of internships are not even stimulated to seek a job. I'll tell you, since I'm really moving and I've got a lot of acquaintances who have lost their jobs that way, what they're doing. They are to work on black, but only to slightly improve their difficult material situation and mainly do physical work in construction. They mix malter, they wear bricks, and it's for a dozen marks, so if it's a gray economy and if he doesn't want to get a job, then I really don't know who wants to get a job. In the end, who will receive a worker at the age of 60 when there are so many unemployed and experts and full-time workers. We're practically going this way, because the labour market is certainly not going to offer him a job, because there are a lot of younger people waiting for work, bringing people in their old and late years into social situations. The second one says - if the employer does not pay up to 30 a month for the previous month, he is obliged to pay contributions based on a rate of 3,033 dinars, up to the VIII rate of 12,724 dinars. What a paradox. If the employer couldn't pay his salary, it means he didn't have the funds. Take just how many companies in the complex industry, metal complex, leather, shoes, textiles industry and simply cannot raise that money, could not on that smaller base, and not now, and if he collects some funds he must pay the state's contributions, and the worker remains practically without funds. The third provision, once again initiated by the Payment Transport Service, which is required to notify the tax authority that the employer has failed to comply with its obligation, is a criminal provision, so it says - in the amount of 10,000 to 200,000, the employer will be punished by a legal person, i.e. from 5,000 to 100,000 who is not a legal person. If we remind ourselves of the previous law, which he said - if it doesn't pay the profits once a month, it will at least pay for the offense from 2,000 to 200,000, and now it says if it hasn't paid the contributions from 10,000 to 200,000 and where we bring it. We're bringing him and all the workers practically into a social case so they don't receive any money. To make it worse, even worse and scarier, a provision that brings employers into a totally unequal and unembarkable case, and the position is that the competent authority may prohibit them from working, or working for 30 to 90 days. We're all workers here, or at least we're in contact with workers and employers. Let's take a private face and ban it from 30 to 90 days. He doesn't care about employees. He'll stop his action, and he'll send them to the street. Not only won't he pay any contributions, he won't pay the workers any money, because there's no money from where. He doesn't, and what we did, we practically got people into a much worse situation and much more drastic than she was, and who needs it. Mr. Minister, you ran the union, you fought for workers' rights, and this is all waiting for you, and this is living truth for you. Who's going to help these workers? Just take it to have one metal complex, one company 500 workers, and it does. Every more serious company has 500 workers, it doesn't work, capacity 20%, workers here and let's take the average KV worker. That's 5,200 dinars per month, so times 500 workers, that's 2.5 million, and let's say that the rate is reduced from 105 percent to 80% and that's 2,100,000. He must start paying 2,100,000 for contributions and taxes, if the purchases and the workers will not do anything. He barely collected it, and they banned it from getting some compensation, so he could get a hot meal, and what he can do now, he can't pay for anything. For these reasons, it means for these three basic reasons, these three new provisions that mark this law, simply reading it as an MP of the Socialist Party, and so will my comrades who will certainly say another new set, we cannot agree, nor accept this law, and we will vote against.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5464	The People's Messenger Toma Busetic has the word, and let the MP Branko Ruzic prepare for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5465	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs and this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Law on the Rights of Unemployed Persons is a restrictive law and a law that drastically reduces the rights of all persons employed. This is so already in the first article that says in relation to Article 14 where the last position is deleted that the unemployed person who has been insured for 30 and more years is not paid to his employment, that attitude is deleted, that attitude has been good, and in any case we consider and later we have made amendments that this position should be maintained. In article 3, which speaks of basics, of the lowest basics, I think the lowest basics are quite high. They're especially high when we talk about a higher set, a tall one, even a middle one. If we're making a parallel, the example works at the "Cube Fabrika" in Svetozarev (Jagodina) with the VI degree 7,000 and plus 7,000 will be 14,000, and that's a great imposition, even if there is a certain redundancy of the economy, which is what Minister Djelic was talking about, it would again mean some 12,000, which is significantly more than it is now. The next position that speaks of that the basis set out in Article 1 cannot be more than five times the average monthly earnings per employee in the Republic and according to the last published data of the Republic's statistical authority, I think it should be changed and no restrictions should be made. Once upon a time, if someone has 20,000 salaries he'll pay the same as the one who has 30,000, and here we've all advocated who has the most here and needs the most surgery and the most to give. I think this limit is absolutely unnecessary. In terms of the position of the 2nd member - it is coordinated three months with the movement of earnings of employees in the Republic on the basis of data from the Republic's statistical authority, I think it is necessary to change and put - to coordinate three months with the movement of earnings per municipality employee. Why? We in Serbia certainly have 2/3 and perhaps even 3/4 of municipalities below the republican average and it is incorrect where the state should make it take the same from the poor and from the rich and where it should give, when it comes to children's supplements, then there is a difference between municipalities. We'll talk about it later in the new laws. It is a very important question of Article 27 that states that payment services organisations are obliged to notify the tax authority at the latest by the end of the current month, of employers who have failed to fulfil their obligations. And this tax authority is required to forward notices to employers of unmistakable obligations. I don't know how this new government is going to carry out financial discipline, given that for years it's been calling on citizens, employers, for civil disobedience, not to pay neither contributions nor taxes, nor many other taxes, so now this is going to be very difficult to achieve. Perhaps at first sight it is not such an important issue to elect board members. Following a new solution, members of the Management Board should choose an employers' association organised at the level of the Republic from the employers' ranks, and on a proposal from trade union organisations organised at the level of the Republic, which have more than 10,000 members. I don't think these solutions are correct either, and they don't have the right foothold. I believe that earlier solutions related to the selection of board members were more solid, where board members were said to be appointed from the employers' order in front of the Chamber of Commerce and the Union of Unions. Why are these solutions better? What does it mean in the new terms of the employers' association? Who will determine which associations they are, and how will we get those names? It's only two members of the board of directors. When it comes to unions, it would be logical for the board members to give the majority union. As far as I know, this majority union is the Union of Unions of Serbia, which has maybe 700,000 to 800,000 workers -- members and we have this talking Independent Union, and it says it has 300,000 to 400,000 members. Logically, between the two unions, members of the board of directors are elected. In the end, this law significantly reduced workers' rights and representatives, or MPs of the Socialist Line of Serbia, will not accept it because there are many shortcomings and shortcomings. I personally express my great satisfaction that tomorrow at the Assembly we will talk about the problem of Kosovo and Metohija and this is in some way the first attempt by the new government, an attempt to resist NATO aggression, which we have talked about for years, means from the introduction of sanctions to the bombing in 1999 and later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5466	The word is made by MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5467	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government's Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons is one in a series of restrictive and rigid legislative proposals that directly affect the deterioration of the position of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We have a case that, according to current legal provisions, an unemployed person who had had a retirement job for 30 and more years has exercised the right to financial compensation for employment, i.e. to exercise pension rights. With the government's proposal for a bill, this right of cash compensation is practically being handed down to 24 months, with the proposal that the unemployed persons in line with the provisions of the last legislative proposal, i.e. the solutions, were not allegedly stimulated to seek employment and that they were also reportedly working on black and all because of what the proposer said, while achieving the right to cash compensation and payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance. This argument of content in the explanation only reflects the rigidity and negligentness of the government for the ordinary man and citizen of the Republic of Serbia. If such a bill passes, a legitimate question arises - what will be done by persons with over 30 years of employment and without employment, whose status, among other things, will be caused by the application of the labour law that you have voted here today. Who will take you back to work, and what businesses will these people work in? What happens to these people if they don't find employment within 24 months? Who's going to take care of them, because according to this argument, the government doesn't seem to be taking care of them. Which means the finding that unemployed people aren't stimulated to find employment. Well, I guess it's just those unemployed people who are life-long interested in finding jobs. Especially if there's a cash compensation for unemployed people who can't even cover the basic cost of living. The government even believes it is not celery to pay cash compensation allegedly ensure the material security of unemployed people to exercise pension rights. This concern of the Government of Celebrity sounds very strange in the light of the fact that there is no speech on material security, nor in the case of employees who exercise the right to regular personal income, let alone in the case of unemployed persons, who cannot pay even the basic cost of life. Taking into account all the taxes and charges the government has prescribed. Also, in the light of the reasons for the adoption of this law relating to Articles 4 and 5, the employer's obligation to make contributions on a minimum basis for the employee and when he has not paid the earnings and this obligation to pay the contributions is not at all disputed, however, a ligamentary question arises - whether the employer, if there is no funds, will pay the salary to the employee to pay those contributions. This example concludes that this bill essentially means imperative service of obligations to the state and that workers will be paid but only according to the possibilities. Finally, as an MP for the Socialist Party of Serbia, a party that advocates the development of a state of social justice, a party that insists that vulnerable categories of the population be protected, cannot support such a bill, whose application will ultimately have an inhumane attitude towards both the employees and the unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5468	There's a word from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5469	Fellow MPs, the esteemed president of the National Assembly, esteemed journalists, the argument offered by colleagues from the Socialist Party of Serbia, today clearly states why the law should not be adopted. It is quite clear here that this legal solution and those laws that we have already adopted, as well as what is offered in the proposals of the laws that are before us, is being demonstrated by a system which we call socialism and for politicians it is interesting from an ideological point of view, but for those people under whom this law goes as a consequence, it is primarily a social and existential question. So I think that a number of people, who are facing the consequences of new laws, will have time to analyze well all of this offered here and all that is offered to the whole package of laws. There are a few things here (the colleagues have already spoken, I will also apostrophe only some), it is not very important about the law, but Article 27 on page 46 says: "The organisation responsible for payment services is obliged... ", etc. While you were an opposition, you advocated that payment operations do not deal with any specialised payment organisation, but business banks. I stood up for it and then, and now. I think it'd be about time we made a deal on who's in this country's pay-as-you-go business. If this is still the PDO, then you should apologize to those you told in the election campaign that it would be different, and if these are business banks, then they should be business banks and a postal savings bank, which has infrastructure, personnel and knowledge, to deal with this business. But if it stays as predicted here, the business banks are disqualified to deal with this business in the future. I advocate that business banks deal in payment traffic, because I think it is necessary and normal. This law has 20 members. Again, as last time, I think that one MP had had such an intervention earlier, says Article 17: "Article 20(2) of this law applies to the billing and payment of the cash compensation starting on 1 September 2001." If it's "this law", then it can't be, because this law has 18 members. So it's something that needs to be corrected in a certain way, as mentioned here, it can't stay. Article 18 states: "This law shall enter into force from 1 June 2001, with the exception of the provisions of Articles 7, 8, 9, 10 and 15 of this Act, which shall enter into force on the eighth day of its publication... "and so on. And for this law, as well as for others, a guide is necessary, so that the law can be monitored and applied, and that economic operators behave in this regard. Because we are passing the law today, and then the previous law says that the provision of Article 20(2) has been applied since 1 September, and all of this, points 7, 8, 9, 10 and 15 of another date. I understand the reasons that the legislator has led to do this, but this significantly complicates law enforcement, so its consistent implementation into life. As far as the board of directors is concerned, I also have a remark, as counterpart Toma Busetic put it -- it is not clear enough what it means that organisations that have 10,000 members, or more, have the right to be represented on the board of directors, if the total number of members of all organisations is two? What if there are 50 organizations, which have 10,000 members, who makes the decision? Is this the discretionary right of the government, or of the minister himself, and what does this really mean about the power that today makes up the biggest union in the country, regardless of what you once called it regimeally? Whatever you call it, there are more than half of the employees employed in Serbia today. I also think that in the context of all of this, in some other laws, which practically resulted in the suspension of a collective contract, the introduction of a pay grade, and so on, it is necessary to imagine well those people, who have fought the union struggled for a collective contract, as the most significant asset that a union could achieve in the past tense. Today we have a situation that one man, I don't think, as the gentleman said, or my friend, Slobodan Tomovic, is incompetent, I just think that Mr. Milovanovic is the most competent minister for this area and I think that every prime minister's portfolio offers to someone he trusts most, and I suppose that was a criterion. It's true, I have some other objections, last time we said that. I know that Mr. Milovanovic really spoke differently about all this stuff in the past, but it's politics, it's life. It wouldn't be good if we quoted it today. Also, here was the most said about reducing the rights of those people who lose their jobs, after 20, 25, 30 years, and so on. I'll go back to the first sentence I've said here -- it's just a demonstration of socialism. Whether it's good or bad, those who face this consequence will appreciate it. The law you're about to pass today is a law for employers. This law is in direct contrast with the interests of the employees. As an MP for the Socialist Party of Serbia, I will advocate those laws, which give employees those rights that should make their lives dignified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5470	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5471	This is another law that, according to government announcements, should regulate the area of social security of employees, and the government, in its explanation, that is to say, speaks of the essence of the proposed amendments and additions to this law. If we take the argument given by the government and study it a little bit better, you'll see that it's mild to say for this everything that it's ironic to all of those who are currently employed and especially to those who are unemployed. In an explanation, the Government gave an interpretation of Article 1 and said, according to a solution so far, an unemployed person who had been insured for 30 or more years had the right to cash compensation for employment, i.e. to exercise pension rights. The government is proposing changes here, by reducing this 30-year limit to 25 years, and by ensuring that these persons are protected for a maximum of 24 months. What's the irony? He says, this solution was not stimulated by unemployed persons to seek employment, and most often they worked on black. Imagine the irony. A man who worked at the firm for 30 years turns out to be in charge of paying him mandatory social security and contributions, and he will be hired to work on the so-called black market at the age of 30. Where it's a mass phenomenon, so that the government has said based on that criterion, now we're going to prevent it from happening, by making it impossible for most of us to work on black. Thirty years of work, when you add years of age, when a man started his working age, which is quite a year, and it's a little mildly said funny that these people can get involved in black. Maybe they can do the simplest physical work. Tell me, where will a graduate lawyer do it after 30 years of working on black, where will VK and KV masters do it on black after 30 years of working hours, and especially when such an economic situation, when the climate in the economy is like this, and what it did yesterday, since this corporation came to power, and it's closed the gates. There's no more chance of working on a regular job, not looking for a job, as you say, on the black. The second article says that the highest and lowest amount of payment in the nominal amount remains the same, only percentages change, and since the amount of cash is determined in relation to gross earnings, this if it takes an even written man and starts counting on two basics of net and gross earnings, it will see that this is orthodox untrue. You can't have gentlemen two criteria in explaining or explaining the two laws or the legislative proposal that this government has proposed, to make a minimum profit, to make a minimum gross profit as you claim by yesterday that it's nominally and realistically higher than the net, with a 10% or 20% reduction, you say nothing has changed nominally. They are, and I told you once from this pay phone, they're in the field of simplest mathematical operations and you'll see that you're wrong. You've defined this well enough, though, so that the smartest can't handle it. No wonder, apparently, that the minister was preparing this, and based on how he read the opening presentation, he didn't read it very well, and where he understood it well, because if he had taken a little bit to work on it, the man had experience, and in production, he had experience in the union movement, so he would see that it was something that was being planted. But it is known to be defended by the majority DOS. You will go out for this pay phone, since there are no heads of Parliament now, most likely someone he's changing, will go out and say, the government has security instruments to provide those who are out of work, and especially those who have worked 30 years and over in this new bill, 25 years and over, and we've already heard that story. It's that requalification fund or social security fund. How many gentlemen is this trust fund of yours? We've adopted this budget, you haven't predicted so much funding. It is better to say that you recognise the open public of Serbia, we are preparing or preparing suitable ground for future privatisation. The international community, i.e. the European Union, has made these conditions clear. They don't want factories that have a large number of employees, they don't want to run social policy, they don't want to end up with social peace in Serbia. We are forced by the possibility of entering foreign capital or obtaining credit to make new draft laws that will regulate it and the people would accept it. Maybe someone wouldn't, maybe someone would, but it hurts less if you confess the truth to the people than to deceive people from day to day. You are misleading by saying that everyone's proposal for a legal proposal, which you have so far presented to this assembly, in the opening statement, is the terms of the European Union. We Serbian radicals always tell you, don't enter the European Union based on these draft laws. The criteria for entry or for candidacy in the European Union are quite different gentlemen, you need to achieve a growth in production, you need to achieve a certain level of standard, you need to make sure that the population has purchasing power, enough to stand at the door and at the threshold of the European Union. Not to throw dust in our eyes, you've been thinking and you've passed some laws. That's not true. They told you what you need to install in the amendments to the law, you've done it as already recognizable and obedient, and what social unrest will be in Serbia, that's what you think you won't solve. You'll be solving gentlemen, and so you've claimed about tax laws, that your laws will have no effect on the price rise in the cost of living, and here's what's real. You even had so much courage and courage through the minister, you claimed that these tax laws would lead to a reduction in prices. And you're partly right, the prices of skin gallantries, confections and white techniques have been reduced. Food prices have increased, everything that is necessary for life. Why don't you go before the people and tell them honestly, honestly, to those who chose you. They didn't choose you to be worse than the ones who replaced them, but they thought you'd bring the six billion dollars you promised. You don't, they don't give you, they don't give you, they give you a spoon, but you have to condition on condition that you meet...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5472	Mr. Mircic, how about you get back on the subject?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5473	Madam Chairman, I really hold on to commenting on any of your incursions or objections, but I would ask you to take some of these bill proposals, too, to study them, so that you too may be in the process of what is being discussed here. Social issues are being debated here, and you're coming in tourist-adventurous, you can't wait to sit down, to be seen by a narrow and wider family, so the Assembly isn't for that. The assembly is to be discussed here. I know it's hard for you here...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5474	Mr. Mircic, I'm warning you that despite your warning, you're speaking beyond the subject of the agenda. I don't want to interrupt, but I have to stick to the Rules of Procedure, when someone breaks...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5475	It would be too much advice now, but leave your emotional or emotional charges out of this congregation, we can talk about it in the hallway, so let me finish, there's only a few seconds left. Gentlemen, I recommend that after this law, since the minister is not here and he cannot defend him, there is no Chad to protect his back, and you cannot protect Chad, it is best to withdraw these provisions of the law or admit openly that you are not capable.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5476	Mr. Jovan Todorovic has the People's MP, and let the following be prepared for discussion, MP Mr. Slobodan Adzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5477	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us one of the perhaps most important laws that regulate the work of social security workers. Only maybe the Health Law and the Law on PIO are more important for Serbian citizens than this law. No smaller law by the number of members, no more absurdity in the bill of law that we have received here today. Unfortunately, there is no Mr. Minister or coming, and I'm glad to see him again in our O.R. I hope everyone here would have wanted us well or would have been more pleased if we had heard some of the following information from our minister. How much of this funding under this law will be pooled into the Employment Fund, i.e. the Labour Market Office. Since this law is not only a law on the exercise of workers' rights in the event of unemployment, but also a law on employment, it would be good to hear how many workers will be employed by means that will be collected on such a multiple basis. These are the questions that are essential, which we never get answers to in the draft laws that come before this Parliament. We don't even know today what the contributions will be under this law. We only know the basics, just like we know about retirement and disability and health insurance. The basics have been increased multiple times, and the bill promoter did not want to hide it, but he forgot that since October, a growing number of people in this country have the unemployment status, starting with those on the employment records of the Employment Office, which there are over 750,000, to those who, because of the fact that the economy, in fact, has stopped, have de facto remained unemployed workers in this country. We don't know how much resources we're going to have under this law today, how many people we're going to take care of under this law, and how we think that we're going to drain the dry wood, when no one in this country, or almost no one is doing it the way we're supposed to, so that they can make these obligations come out of legal solutions at peace. If it is for the comfort of the employers, nothing this law protects more workers than employers. It might even be the other way around. Dear gentlemen, it may occur to us that employers may one day, but very quickly, by applying these laws, they become unemployed persons who will appear to be receiving compensations based on the legal solutions that we are making here today. It is also comforting that the employer, or legislator, says that the basis for calculating the contribution for these purposes will be limited and that they cannot be greater than the five-point amount of average earnings made in the Republic of Serbia. What's it really for? It serves to talk on the one hand about how we will protect workers by draining dry wood, taking what is not realistic to take, and on the other hand, I would say a mild word - demagogue to approach it and say - what do you want, it is limited, it is not more than five times the average profit in Serbia. Similar solutions are also made in the Retirement and Disabilities Insurance Act, where it is said that the base cannot be more than five times higher, but therefore still retains the highest pension of - average salary times 3.8. Now I'm talking in the package, because maybe it would have been rational to talk about it in the package, and we've been contradicting a lot of things in the package. If that's justified and logical in health care, because it's hard to believe that someone five times sicker, average, than someone else who singles out, then it doesn't make any sense here. Because whoever can pay for the five-time average earnings in the Republic of Serbia, there is no problem in calculating this part of the unemployment-based contribution as well. Finally, at the end of this story, therefore, she could be told for a very long time, but everything in this law is questionable to me. You're saying that a worker who's worked in the last three months and earned, for example, 10,000 dinars, and there are such workers and such enterprises, unfortunately, little, has the right to compensation which is 60% of his earnings in the previous period. Then, in attitude 2, you say -- it can't be less than 40% or more than 80% compared to the average earnings paid in the Republic of Serbia. Then the bill promoter in stock says that the nominal amounts are the same only percentages that changed, and then he passes us one story that we had about the number of severances that belonged to the worker when we proved to this speaker that it wasn't true, the one that counted, he calculated, but these amounts that are going to apply now are going to be smaller than the case so far. I remind all of you MPs that with those basics that were five or six times bigger in the previous time, we paid off these average earnings or current average earnings. We now have a reverse situation, we increase our obligations multiplely, and we nominally keep the same amount of compensation. It's an absurdity that simply cannot survive in the law if we think we're correct in proposing these legal solutions. Finally, here would be the right place to ask the question -- is there any funding for this country to solve unemployment workers' benefits? We talked about it several times, even the ministers and the Prime Minister here said there would be donations in the day. Are there any intended donations for these purposes and in what amounts? What kind of branches are we actually going to invest in if it's employment, what kind of workers are we going to take care of? Do we all have the same status here now or don't we all? Next, practically, how are we going to apply this law now? We say it will take effect on the eighth day, but from the first day. The 9th, we'll apply it in terms of the fees we'll pay to the workers. What do we have? We will have June, July and August, collecting contributions to the fund under this law. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No July, seven months, six months, seven and eight months. What have we done now? We've taken it in advance, and later we'll give it a nominal amount that will be adjusted. It is not at least correct, especially when we are trying with these legal solutions to tell workers or citizens who listen to us - it will be better for you than it was. How are we going to get better than we did? Minister, in which branches are we going to invest to increase employment, to receive workers, that the Labour Market Office is working on the principles that actually make the labour market exist? Let's hire new people. We will also choke on this little business that we have and then we will have a full population or employees, unemployed, but only those who work in the state administration, in education or health care will be employed in some way. But they won't be able to receive salaries either, because those who need to give simply don't have it. For these reasons, I think that the legislator or legislator should postpone the application of this law, especially for those companies that have paid guaranteed profits until the law was passed, and that the time for them should start to run since 1 January 2002. Those who have so far paid all taxes and contributions should pay on the basis that would be half of the proposed basis. That, in my understanding and in some simple account that I can calculate on the basis of the number of workers in this country who are working objectively and receiving earnings neatly, we could come up with a balance of funds that would provide social security in the event of unemployment at the level that we now have. Don't be stubborn as either as proponents or as the DOS majority in this House. You must once start thinking about the way people propose something to improve the law, but not just to improve the law, but to make it more practical and normal to implement these regulations in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5478	The People's Messenger is Free Adzic, and after him is the Messenger of Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5479	My previous MPs, as well as most MPs of the opposition, have not entered the essential reasons why these amendments to the employment law and the rights of unemployed persons are being passed today. I speak now both as an MP and as a member of the Committee on Labour, Social and Combat Affairs. I would like to point out that there was not too much discussion on the Committee itself, just because we were aware of these essential reasons. The main reasons are, above all, the changes and additions to the law, and the other essential reason is that it is about changes and additions that do not apply to the reform of this area. So it's not about social security reform, it's about tax reform. We have already adopted legal provisions relating to the reform of the tax system. For these reasons, it is perfectly logical and normal for us today to come up with these provisions that would follow the provisions of the tax system. So these changes include two groups of provisions. They are one that refers to a unique basis by establishing a gross system. Others refer to the very management of the Republic Institute for Unemployed Persons. When it comes to the provisions concerning the introduction of a gross system, the objective of the introduction of a gross system, in this area, is precisely to introduce one discipline, and above all it is about discipline, about payment of contributions. These are by no means restrictive provisions, because the government has promised, and will also do parallel, reduction of the base, or tax rates. So this is going to increase the base, but the tax rate is going to decrease, so it's going to come to the same level of obligations that employers are going to have. When it comes to provisions relating to the management of the Republic Labour Market Office, it wants above all to ensure adequate representation of employers and trade unions. First of all, according to earlier laws, they were favoured, the state kept it under control, the Republic Institute, and favoured first and foremost the Chamber of Commerce for which the same known control was, as well as the trade unions. As for some discussions by the opposition MPs, which is said to be a regime law, it is regimeal, because the law remains in force. So here are only amendments to the provisions, and the previous regime passed the Employment and Rights Act. So, by changes, i.e. I expect as an MP that the DOS government will offer us changes, primarily reforms, from social security, and they will include reforms of pension, health care, as well as the area of the rights of unemployed persons. For these reasons, as an MP, I would like to support these changes, by agreeing with the part of the complaints relating to Article 14(2) concerning the abolition of the rights of persons who have achieved 30 and more years of pension insurance, the right to cash compensation, and after 24 months. I would support the DSS's proposal here, that this provision, meaning Article 14(2), should be maintained for reasons that we are now not reforming, as I said, social security reform and I think this provision is also affecting the reform. To achieve reform, a certain solution must be offered, and we do not have that solution for now. I say once again, that amendment that DSS MPs will propose here should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5480	The word has the People's MP Dejan Mihajlov, followed by Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5481	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, these days according to a well-established manner, the most talk is about things that are not on the agenda and talk about what DOS did or didn't do. That's what most gentlemen from the current opposition are about, in fact, decades of positions. Then they came to the conclusion that DOS was accused, that he succeeded for these three months, as far as he was in power, that gross national income with 10,000 per capita, reduced to 800,000, that we had purposelessly spent money from the loan for the Serbian rebirth, that we had devastated the economy, that we had destroyed everything that could have been destroyed in this country. In this case, we might conclude that you are the flowers that are now trying to fix something, to give a useful and well-intentioned advice. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, what we've been hearing here for days, your plight of the collapse of the Serbian economy, we can't conclude anything else here, but that you yourself have written a charge of what you've been doing for the past 10 years. You wrote and signed it yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5482	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5483	I'm sorry, I'll come on the subject, this is just one brief introduction to what's next. It follows that we received, ladies and gentlemen, you, one hot potato, we accepted, we received that hot potato, and if you'd like to hear it, from the Government of National Unity...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5484	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5485	We received this hot potato from the government of national unity or sunflower, which the hot potato gave us and which we accepted. We knew it would be difficult, but we also knew that if some changes didn't take place now, and that started with changes in the tax system, we went after the Labour Relations Act, to regulate the field of labour relations and legislation, we would come into one situation when we couldn't move forward anymore, but we would only be able to fail. We must observe the provisions of this law in accordance with the Labour Relations Act that was adopted the other day in this congregation and I will refer especially to the 27-j provisions. and 27j1, which specifically determines the payment control of contributions and criminal provisions that regulate those employers and punish them to pay these contributions, those employers who do not comply with their obligations to employees. Why is this important? I come from Pancheva, a city that is one of the strongest industrial cities in Serbia and Yugoslavia, a city that is unfortunately on the first pages of the press these days, not for the sake of which it is realising, but for the pollution it has suffered and the city in the neighbourhood, as well as in many other cities in Serbia, that for years, contributions have not been paid to employees, and that after four or five years when they tried to exercise their rights on the basis of pension insurance and everything else, they concluded that the employer did not pay contributions, nor health insurance, nor pension insurance. These provisions, which are precisely, therefore, good for employees, regulate the employer's obligation to pay contributions and criminal provisions if he does not. We at the DSS do not think that this law is ideal, it will be safe, it can and must be fixed, but it is certainly a quality shift for the better, and it will, and the practice itself will show which are his faults and which are his good sides. The people chose us to change, and we have to change, to move forward. Finally, by listening carefully to fellow members of the current opposition, some of them come out and criticise the employer's position as bad. Immediately thereafter, his colleague from the same party comes out and criticises the law from the employee's position, that he is bad. Dear colleagues, what exactly do you want and what is the purpose of all your discussions? Whether the aim of the empty demagogue debate is to convince the citizens that we are not doing good or bad, and whether the goal of your wish is unfulfilled, what you did not do when you could do it. We hear a lot of ideas. Why didn't you do it for the past 10 years, and the government of national unity and sunflowers that ruled these premises, harassed these premises, did nothing and why you're bringing it up now, if you're not evil and malicious and you're trying to frame us for something... Mr. President, I'd like you to calm the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5486	I ask you to stick to the subject, as well as the People's Messengers to die.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5487	When you want to frame us for something that is not true, in our good intentions Serbian citizens should not doubt, we have accepted our obligations in the elections, we will responsibly execute them, and we from the DSS as we have never failed them before, so we will not fail now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5488	First Mr. Ivkovic, then Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5489	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for reminding the previous debater twice that he has come out of the agenda topic, that is, the agenda point. Let me only bind myself to one of his remarks that the people have chosen him and his fellow servants, to make changes, and they make changes. So ask the people what they think of the changes you make? Ask him and you will hear what he thinks, and here all the debaters from the Socialist Party of Serbia have pointed to changes in this legal solution. Changes are a downsizing of employees' rights and it's not a fact that so far someone who has worked for 30 years has lost his job and had the right to receive compensation from the labour market bureau, for employment, as long as he doesn't find a job or until he retires. Your legal project says that whoever has worked for more than 25 years has only 24 months' right to receive and after that goodbye. Are these the changes the people voted for? You're reducing his rights here, that's what this is about. Secondly, you are forcing (the people to pay) that the state must contribute. He doesn't care what he gets paid for retirement and welfare if he doesn't get paid that month. That's all I came to say. All the debaters of the Socialist Party of Serbia spoke specifically about this topic and specifically pointed out that this legislative project, as before, reduces the significant rights of employees and those who will potentially be unemployed, and these are obviously much under the privatisation laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5490	Replica Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our young colleague doesn't seem to see that DOS chiefs have long since mentioned the charges. This strategy is to accuse, arrest, kill, hang, banish obviously that it has not yielded fruit and is no longer the dominant and prevailing strategy that this government is allowed to perform. The easiest way to get out and say it yourself is to write the charges, but I see against your political rival, number one Slobodan Milosevic, you failed to file an indictment that I, who fought with him when he was strongest, would prove to me that you rightly held him in prison. When we left the prison in Gjilan, I told Slobodan Milosevic at a public meeting at Calemegdan that compared to the torments he caused to the Serbian people of my two months meant nothing, but that one day and two months to do time, to do time. So I could look forward to having another month running, saying I'm just saying it, and now we're one-one, but I'm not looking forward to it because you don't have the basis for that kind of accusation. You are now telling us here that in the last 10 years the government has ruined, destroyed, and all this has a name, has a responsibility, has its own cause and consequences, and if you tell us that in 10 years it has ruined Serbia, it must be in prison and it must be in prison with the indictment that it has ruined Serbia and that there is enough evidence that it has ruined Serbia. At the same time, you say this law must be passed. That's what you think of him. Because before him, a basic bad law was passed, the 2001 Budget Act. You've adopted an extremely bad budget bill that has to bring 140 billion dinars this year and now it's an excuse for any more recent, newer and more recent accusations and when we prove to you persistently, systematically trying to get this speaker to convince you that the law is wrong, and we're leaving you with a conscience that you're voting, when we convince you it's not good, you say - yes, but some new law will cut tax rates. That looks like that old man Boru who had that INOS bank. He doesn't mention her, and he's the one who stole the bad money. He was saying, "I'll pay you back when I turn them around." So are you, it's all true, but that's why we're going to cut tax rates. It's true that I was talking about it, it's true that you need to find a measure here between workers and employers, but you're destroying both. You're destroying this employer today, whether it's a state, social property, it's totally my business right now, this time it doesn't matter. You're destroying it to get the one on clean, on ice, on a factory, on a production program in which there may be no burden at all, there may not be any employees. That's what hurts us, what we warn. A man who doesn't pay two months' wages close his job for three months, he'll fire the workers, come a strategic partner and no more 25,000 workers in a car factory he has to worry about if he wants a factory, but has 4,000 workers. That's what we're warning you about, and there's no scarcity in us, but there's a lot of great experience in us that you miss. That's why I'm warning you. You've come to power a lot easier than you're going to leave. You'll see, the proverb says -- it's not a dangerous height to climb, it's a dangerous fall from that height. There's a fall waiting for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5492	The People's MP Stevan Kesejić has the word, and then the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5493	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this draft law on amendments to the Employment and Rights Act is in a series of bad laws that DOS majority here have voted on. This law that the DOS proposes is a continuation of harassing and with laws passed so far, this hack is just a little different. It's different the more he looks like a hiduchi from a secret. Taking away the rights of workers who have bloodyly acquired in their past work, this law has been scrawny and completely unprofessionally presented here in front of the Assembly and the MPs. Presented by Minister Milovanovic, the union minister, otherwise, as presented here by the interest of the current student, he doesn't care about the rights of workers. He is now a student and will likely be protected by the Union of Students when the union starts with a hook and a hoax precisely on those who have proposed this law. There may also be some compensation between student and union ordnance, so there will be some exchanges. How can the minister from this pay phone read this bill good for workers, by which they exercise their rights, that unemployed persons exercise their rights, when in fact this law, or this bill, actually speaks quite differently. So this bill of law is actually taking the rights of workers in relation to the existing law. We also have some demagogues coming forward from some DOS MPs who swear to the public that everything will be well, you've given us confidence, we'll justify your trust. But when we take and read and compare what they suggest and what was, it's not like that at all. In Article 14 of the revision of the provisions, it clearly states what DOS authorities are proposing, or what awaits workers who have lost their jobs. The previous law states that an unemployed person who has been insured for 30 and more years shall be paid a fee to his employment, i.e. to meet the conditions for the exercise of age pension rights, in accordance with the rules on pension and disability insurance. This amendment of the law requires a worker, which I am now talking about, so this worker who had 25, 30 and more years of work experience, when he was out of work to get 24 months' wages and 24 months' worth of the state taking care of him and then taking care of the street. What does the government do that way? It makes us get a new layer of poor, poorer people than we do today. We'll also have more people on the streets who'll head into containers but containers and container contents will be getting poorer. It's because of all these laws that were previously passed and this law has another goal that actually speaks of everything. It is that a huge number of workers will be left out of work, to prepare the ground for the application of the Privatisation Act, that is, to save the ground for strategic partners who will buy businesses for small money, but without workers, and that is actually the essence of this law, and that is what DOS government here must tell citizens - what awaits them, when they are accepted, that is, here, by the law on privatisation. So, this law that we're talking about today, which is to be accepted and I believe it will be done, because all these scrabbled laws are so and accepted, which the voting machine simply voted for, not counting and not taking care of the citizens and the people, who otherwise, because of all these promises and made trust in the elections, you convinced the citizens that they were sick. It was bad. Everyone's had a bad time. It was necessary to make changes, and to change for the better, with laws that would be better than those so far. That's exactly what we Serbian Radical Party MPs here want to prove to you, facts and arguments, that by passing laws that are worse than those that have been so far, you're actually deluding citizens with rhetorical speeches here by individual DOS representatives and ministers who have strayed here. Of course, there are a lot of ministers missing here. They're probably in exile, afraid to blush here on their own in front of the cameras when these laws are passed, but they've pushed someone who's less red because they count it as a representative of the people, a representative of the union. The question arises - why did the worker make contributions to health and social protection? Which is why the worker was singled out if after 30 years of working hours, he'd go out on the street and have to be a beggar. The question also arises -- what about 24 months of receiving the worker will be able to do. It's very illusory if someone thinks the employee who spent 30 years on certain jobs will be able to find and get a job somewhere. He's not going to get a job anywhere unless he somehow manages to go back to the gray economy. We know well that there's also a law here on curbing the gray economy and that's a positive thing. But what's left of that worker, who's left with no basic material existence, no money, to feed himself and his family, but to deal with the gray economy, or how I said he'd shove his head into containers, or in the end, which I believe will be in a far smaller number, to give up some of the actions that are against the law. In other words, DOS's government is pushing the citizens into the abyss, into an increasingly severe and deeper misery. That's why this law that's on the agenda today, in no way should be accepted and I suggest that the government, as I said in the refugee service, proposes today, by telephone to the minister who is here, or perhaps to report to the university, to withdraw this law from the procedure and to prepare a better law than the law that may have been just as bad but which was far better than the law that you're proposing today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5494	There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5495	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, and this draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Employment and Exercise of the Rights of Unemployed Persons, as well as those of the laws that are yet to come on the agenda, which are the draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, are restrictive by users or by employees. The current law of a 30-year-old worker guarantees the payment of cash compensation until its re-employment or the fulfilment of age-retirement conditions. You've noticed that we all mention this, but I think that's what it's supposed to be, that's what the bill promoter should never have done, or shouldn't have done this category of employees who are most likely to be left out of work without compensation for unemployment and are not in a situation of re-employment. The amount of cash compensation is reduced further from 70% to 60% of the average unemployment income achieved in the last three months, and earlier this was compared to earnings in the previous month. So there's a reduction, so it's practically receiving half of its profits from the previous month. By increasing his remuneration by two percent for each year, he still has a limit of no more than 80% of the average monthly earnings per employee in the economy of the Republic. We didn't have this restriction before. So, as things stand now, there can't be less compensation than 1,800 dinars or more than 3,600 dinars. Suppose someone had a salary of 6,000 dinars before he lost his job. There are such, DOS directors and crisis staff are firing anyone who is not morally political-like regardless of the technical equipment. We are witnessing that over 250 workers with high professional training have been fired in the National Bank alone. They probably had high salaries, and now they're going to be on the bureau and they're going to receive these compensations, as the proposer suggests. Fear prevailed in the people, because everyone knows that layoffs will still be but at the same time every hope - I guess I won't be out of a job. So this worker who had 6,000 salaries and lost his job will have a compensation of 3,600 dinars, which is 60% of his earnings and is no more than 80% again, which is the maximum of the average earnings in the economy of the Republic. All those whose average profit was below 6,000 dinars can count on receiving compensation in the range of 1,800 to 3,600, and most of course, it will be as it is in the economy, those who will receive 1,800 dinars, three months, six months, nine, twelve, 24, but depending on how much insurance they have. As much as they're socially secured, there's no need to explain, we know what we can do for 1,800, and what we can pay for 3,600 dinars, what basic life supplies cost, and not talk about all the other costs for electricity, utility and other things. That's what a worker gets in case he loses his job. And what is it that is taken from him, or taken from the employer, while the worker is still employed? These basics go from 3,033 dinars, for the simplest work, for which the first degree of professional training is sought, or for the second degree of professional training, up to 12,724 dinars, for those with eight degrees of professional training, and whether the employer has paid off, which is a kind of nonsens, he must pay off contributions to these bases. I don't know if there's such a solution in the world anywhere. If there is, could the minister go out and tell us whose experiences they used to do, when they prescribed something like this? The government, therefore, is not interested in anything but to fill the budget. A budget of 142 billion dinars must be filled. So -- this is how, based on all these tax laws, which the congregation majority has brought in for the last three weeks, since we've been sitting, and based on these laws that we're talking about today and we're going to talk about in the next few days. What will happen because of such high bases, based on which contributions have to be paid - the employer will be forced to fire many workers, unemployment will grow, total destimulation for hiring new workers, and, all in all, further asphyxiation of the economy, whether it is the social, state-owned sector, or it is about independent trade, craftsmanship, private businesses. The government had previously been able to adopt an individual act, which, if certain conditions were met, could reduce the basics, even for the payout of the prescribed ones, by 50%, at the request of the employer, and did so, if I remember well, at least 300 companies, if not more, and what was wanted, I think it was quite clear - the state gave up part of the contribution, to allow and create space for business organisations to use these funds to restore production. I'm under the impression that you're accusing the previous government of being too human by deleting these provisions from the law. Now, with this bill of law, there is no such possibility, of course, and perhaps this provision is too high, if these promised six billion dollars arrive, and those six billion dollars for about four of our budgets, as much as we adopted this year's budget. These 6 billion, of course, are about to arrive, and if they invest in reviving production, we will be able to expect tax rates to decrease and the foundations to decrease, and everything will be much better, however, our people say, "Don't take the donkeys to the green grass," so I'm afraid here that's exactly how it's not going to be. The government and this bill also stipulates that the employer can be imposed on a ban on the exercise of activity, cumulatively, with a criminal penalty. That's almost incomprehensible. I understand that there is a violation and punishment that has been adequately measured, but I don't understand a government that constantly suggests that we should ban the work of a company, or any legal person, or a commercial store, because any of the failures, or offences, have been committed. It is clear that the government's intention, practically, is to shut down companies, because we know that otherwise it is difficult for the production process to take place, and only if we close it for 30, 60, 90 days at a certain time, can it not begin again. What's it all going to lead to, of course, we'll see, but it's not going to work out for good. Minister Djelic told us when we adopted tax laws - social policy is moving from business, the state will take care of workers. How the state will take care of the workers, here, we see from the proposal and this law, and the Labour Relations Act, and we'll see from these other proposals, which will only come on the agenda. All in all, we don't write well.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5496	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5497	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one of the representatives of the ruling majority, who went out for a pay phone, said it was impossible to attack this law at the same time, because of what is given as a right or obligation to an employer, while criticising him for reducing the rights of workers. This is precisely very simple and completely possible by this law, it is not incompatible at all, first of all, because this law speaks of the basics on which contributions are calculated and paid, which primarily affects the employer, but at the same time it speaks of a significantly reduced exercise of the rights of unemployed persons, i.e. a significantly lower amount of cash compensation, which is spoken of here, so that this is something that seems to me completely clear. By the way, by the way, that word - position - is nothing different from the opposition. The opposite of the opposition is power, not position. But, well, that's in some more serious books. As regards the very proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Employment and Law on the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons, it should, in its essence, constitute one of the laws within the so-called social legislation. Here it's called the Bill of Amendments and Supplements, you can't say at all. This is a continuation, not of reform laws, but of anti-reform tax laws, which we have adopted so far. He is, in fact, another link in the chain that should complete the budget, proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the parliamentary majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted, and it seems to us that what this law proposes is clear. I'll read, since we've managed to calculate here, in the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, so I'll just read to you, I won't read you all the details, but just a few, to see how much the employer's obligations are increasing, or how much the basis for his contribution is growing. So for all of these eight categories (I'll talk by category, so I don't read each category individually) - so for the first category (it's those jobs that don't require expertise), from 470 dinars, to 3,033 dinars, for jobs for which expertise is required, so up to the third year of secondary education, it's from 800 dinars, to 4.427 dinars. Then, in the third category, from 950 to 5,262 dinars. In the fourth category, from 1,200 dinars to 6,635 dinars. In the fifth category, from 1,300, to 7,145 dinars. Six, from 1,700 to 9,409 dinars. In the seventh, from 1,900, to 10,510 dinars, and in the eighth category (this is the expertise acquired by doctorate, so, eighth degree), with 2,300, how much the basis for paying contributions so far, it grows to 12,724 dinars. And the question is, who's gonna be able to pay for it, and what are we doing with a bill like this to stimulate it? Such a legislative proposal, if adopted, and we Serbian Radical Party MPs hope that the parliamentary majority will not accept it, is stimulated by an increase in the number of unemployed, rather than doing everything possible to hire new people, to stimulate the particular employment of younger people. In this way we demand and ask literally of all employers to release all those without whom they can provide a simple reproduction, and absolutely nothing more, in order to meet all the needs of the kind of budget that we've already talked about, of 140 billion. Who can be bothered by this? Not to some, most of them will. It won't bother anyone there, the head of a criminal group, the Dragoljub Markovic mob, who will put a gun in his mouth to those who disagree with him from Surcin, or the brothers of Burgia, or what is almost being removed from the Serbian Radical Party, Peter Panic, who you use in this way. It's going to bother ordinary employers, it's going to bother ordinary people, people who should think they're doing a lot more to hire new people, which we should encourage to do something like that. I have to point out the fact that the unemployment benefits are significantly reduced. We've had an example here and there's been a particular talk about those unemployed people who have over 30 or over 25 years of work experience. It's something that represents the most significant rigidity, riskyness and cruelty in this bill, and we've already talked about it, Mr. Minister, and the Labour Relations Act, and then I've already talked about what's next in this bill. Then there were words and I was told to look at the best possible way, that we would have a big problem with people who have over 25 years of work experience, because why would someone take a job with someone who is 30 or 31 years old, if they could hire someone who is 18, 19 or 20 years old before that. We have not provided any compensation to people who are over 25 years of employment or, if you will, are provided significantly less than the previous law had provided. The entire norm has been deleted from the previous law, which says, to an unemployed person who has been insured for 30 and more years, the cash compensation is paid to employment, i.e. to meet the conditions for the exercise of age pension rights. There's no such thing now. So if someone is unemployed and has over 25 years of internships, they get only 24 months of that cash compensation, where there is once again an amazing time interval. It is said that cash compensation will be paid from the beginning of 1. This year's 09th, and what's gonna happen in May, June, July and August, no one's talking about it. At that time, only contributions will be collected, what is necessary for the budget will be taken, and for workers who need to exercise their rights will be nothing. When the time comes to exercise their rights, it is obvious that these rights will be incomparably smaller and incomparable in a lower amount, because there will be these material compensations, than it has been so far. I'll read what's changed in the law, so MPs who haven't read it, and I hope there aren't much, but the citizens found out that most of the cash compensation that was previously determined as 70%, the average unemployment income, is now 60%. Except for one small security detail, there is a significant restriction in the next attitude. Namely, if one of you has a salary of 20,000 dinars, can you figure out what 60% is? So that's 12,000 dinars. You can't have 12,000 dinars, because the next attitude tells you that it is maximum between 40% and 80%, which is minimal to 80%, which is the highest average monthly earnings achieved in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. So, where you could have certain incomes, say you're still providing yourself with material compensation, and you're not capable of being destimulized in this way, destroyed. It seems that this law, apart from probably asking for it to be adopted by someone from the European Union, could make it easier for them to come to their wealth, so that they can participate more easily in destroying our country, in taking our business into their own hands, and for little money, why, because this is all some kind of predecessor, some kind of conditions without which we can't bring, condio son luja non, without whom there can be no law on privatisation, which you so announce. It seems that instead of one working - social legislation, we will have all the time of the tax anti-reform, which will only be reformed so much that everything incomparably more will be paid than was the case before and what citizens will have to pay for it. Let me tell you something, citizens don't know yet, they think what's now arrived for their property taxes, that it's in line with their new tax obligations. It's not. It's only consistent with the previous one, with the inflation level. The citizens will see what awaits them and what torments await them, only in June and July, when they arrive at the charge of the third and fourth quarter. So it's only then that people will see how much tax obligations are really increased. This law scares me, of course, that we create conditions in one part, and someone will say maybe for some healthier ground, but in any case we create conditions for an even poorer state, for even poorer people to create a huge number of unemployed persons, with whom I fear, if we accept this bill, we won't know what to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5498	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger, Arsic Joca.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5499	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the people expected a lot from the new government, which has promised to make life easier for the citizens and the workers, when they took power, although the current government complains that it has come to a state that does not suit her and that the situation has been found the way it is. However, no one forced the new government to take power. By passing a number of laws that generally do not improve the position of citizens, and especially workers, when it comes to this law and the proposal to amend and supplement the Employment Act, the draftr of the law has primarily managed his own interests, to provide funds and money for the budget. There is no argument or any fact that applies, that this bill protects and guarantees workers' rights. The promoter has bypassed and does not see the obvious inconceivable consequences that this law will produce. The proposer explains the first member of this bill and explains that many workers were not interested in employment, although they acquired their right to over 30 years of employment. So their rights aren't protected by this law much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you who he is today under these circumstances in our country without being interested in his economic and social and legal opportunities and in his legal and social interests. There is no worker, there is no citizen, who is not concerned at the moment. Never have our citizens been more concerned about existence than they are now. I'm in contact with a large number of citizens, and believe me, it was different five to six months ago, the citizens had a completely different opinion, they were expecting perspectives, they were expecting a better life. However, it is obvious that it is growing in citizens, among the citizens of this Serbia, a great dissatisfaction. Consider the adoption of the law and the increase in prices, when the drugs were 100 and 200 dinars, and now they are 1,000 and 1,200 dinars. (Lowers from the O.R.: theme. ). The theme is, gentlemen, that the legislator of this law says that employers shared profits differently through a warm meal, through regression and other hand-to-hand givings, not through money. That state couldn't control it enough. I am convinced that the state can and how to exercise control, because this bill is talking about strengthening the control of the collection of taxes and contributions. So I see no reason to go to such a solution and on such a proposal that citizens and workers who have acquired their rights, with 25 or 30 years of employment, lose their jobs, let's ask ourselves who will take them into work tomorrow. On the other hand, this amendment and the addition of the Employment Act make it worse for those employed by workers working with private employers. No one has said so far, and the minister, here I am using the opportunity, I would suggest that one answer, how many unemployed workers are in Serbia at the moment, at least that information is confirmed and officially not available and on the other hand whether the minister can give an answer to how many workers will be out of work, through future privatisation. So a huge army of unemployed is being created. I believe that this bill will cost a lot of money to the promoter, and our workers are also black-written because they have absolutely no legal or economic security whatsoever. The circumstances in which our country has found itself extremely difficult for the last time, the bombings that took place in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, major systems have been destroyed and have not yet been qualified for the production process, a large number of workers have lost their jobs. There is no perspective that privatisation will achieve a greater effect and that we will have a higher percentage of employees. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that is why I propose not to accept the amendment and addition of this law, because they directly influence and go to harm the interests of workers and workers who have been creating good years and not to find themselves on the street. Imagine a man who's worked for 25 years, that he'll have to be qualified as a black man tomorrow, he'll have to go and sell seeds on the street, do some jobs that aren't worthy of his qualifications. We're going to have people with colleges who are going to be in a position to do those jobs that they've never been in any kind of trouble for, or prepared or trained for. The Serbian Radical Party absolutely opposes the adoption of these amendments and the addition of laws, for the reasons I have cited because the position of workers is making it difficult, and no one gives a valid explanation of what the perspective is for workers and for citizens in our country. You have seen how the many laws we have adopted have been reflected, that is, adopted by the new government, that these laws have had a very negative impact on the existence and living standards of citizens. Believe that there has been a huge and huge dissatisfaction in the public and amongst the citizens, precisely because it is only about the budget and the state's cash register, and at least about the workers and the working class. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5500	The People's Messenger Joca Arsic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Ljubisa Maravic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5501	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill is restrictive and in the work relating to the rights of workers who have lost their jobs, and it is restrictive to employers for whom new foundations are introduced that are at least three and a half times as valid as before, up to almost five times. Therefore, it is also restrictive in the rights of people who have lost jobs, primarily in Article 1, i.e. by erasing Article 14 of Article 2 where the current law provides for the right, as has already been said here several times, to the compensation of persons over 30 years of employment, to the employment of a new or until retirement. With these legal changes, this right only comes down to 24 fees, regardless of age. That wouldn't be a problem if it were people up to 30, possibly up to 35. But imagine a worker who has turned 35 and is 55 years old cannot qualify for retirement on any other basis, and only has the right to compensation for 24 months of work, after which he is without a job in 57 years of life and 37 years of employment. I think that this is a very bad solution and that a good solution would be, as is one of the MPs of DOS here, I think that it was Predrag Mijailović - Lune predicted, that the amendment was made to this member, that this amendment was adopted and this injustice, at least when it comes to 35-year-old workers, correct so that they had the right to receive compensation until retirement, i.e., to a new job to which it has already been elaborated, very difficult to come here if they take into account the years of age of that worker, probably other conditions, disease, and we heard here how difficult it is to today and to treat and how difficult it is to provide basic existence. The second member is restrictive, it is an amendment to Article 20 of the existing law, where the lowest basics of 40% are predicted, and not more than 80% of the average personal income. I don't want to get into this solution, where 60% is secured in the last three months, so 2% every year of work, but this limits all that. If you take that as the lowest 40% of the 4,200 currently, it is 1,680 dinars is the lowest base, and the highest is 80% of that, and that is 3,360 dinars, regardless of the personal income that has been achieved in the previous three months, or which has reached the employee. Thus, everywhere in social laws and social givings, what the worker has entered is taken according to the rates cut down and the revenues he has made. It's also about retirement, it's also about health care, because these duties are limited, but not as drastic as they are limited by changes and additions to this law. A third thing, where it's limited to the employer. It is not true that it is said here that time is restrictive to the employer, time is restrictive to users, or unemployed persons. It is also restrictive to employers, because here there is a significant increase in the foundations at which the rates that have not been changed apply. I have not heard that the rates will be changed or that someone has said that they will change them, i.e. reduce them with such large investments. I'm saying this for reasons because I come from the middle where the textile industry is developed, not as it is in the south, but there are significant confectionary companies that have been able to benefit from certain benefits in previous legislation, that they can use certain benefits in making contributions, because they were really in a very difficult situation doing business. They're companies like the "Urcon" from Smederev, such as "Confection" in Smederjevska Palanca, or "Percon" in the Great Plan, export-oriented because of the blockade we had. They couldn't do much of the work when it comes to exports. They're only oriented to the domestic market. From those difficulties they had, they couldn't operate in the best way possible. Now that market is opening up. However, the employer outside, who is subject to the labour market and who knows the labour price and who knows that the lowest labour price is in the confectionery, and who compares them with the labour prices in Romania, with the labour prices on other markets in Eastern Europe, will not pay this labour price provided for by these rates of new contributions. They will pay what can be achieved on the Romanian market, on the Bulgarian market, in Eastern Europe. It's a limit they'll recognize as a price then, they'll give the material, and they'll buy that paper. Whether a company that has to enter into such contracts to export will be able to meet these obligations that, as I said, are at least three and a half to five times larger. I'm sure he won't. I would therefore suggest that the amendments that have been given to these members be accepted here, first and foremost on Article 1 and Article 3, where these rates would be corrected and reduced to a reasonable extent, and this right to at least allow workers who have worked for over 35 years, that they can quietly welcome the end of their working age and achieve one of the rights, whether the right to a disability pension, whether the right to an age pension, or the right to a possible but very difficult re-employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5502	The People's Messenger Ljubisa Maravić has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5503	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, I must point out that Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, as well as Serbs exiled from Kosovo and Metohija, are paying attention and anxiously to the adoption of all legal solutions in the Serbian parliament, and in particular I would say that their interest in the adoption of the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the employment and exercise of the rights of unemployed persons because this legal project is now reducing their rights in this area. Over the past two years, due to the inability of world psychics, disrespect for Security Council Resolution 1244 and the functioning of Albanian terrorists, a number of capacities in Kosovo and Metohija, economic giants, and without work, have been destroyed by their own free will by almost 100,000 workers. Ahead of Albanian terrorist gangs, many factories were destroyed, the "Metalurgy of Zinc" in Kosovo Mitrovica was burned, part of the "Accumulator factory" in Kosovo Mitrovica was burned, numerous mines in Kosovo and Metohija were planted, and part of the factory was transferred to Albania. The material damage is huge and is measured by hundreds of millions of dollars. In northern Kosovo and Metohija, there is currently a small number of economic capacities that I think now, due to these proposed legal provisions, will come into a difficult situation, and that, 1) due to the payment, the first contribution, is not disputed that contributions and profits should be paid. However, if the employer does not have the means to pay the employees, he will not have the funds to pay the contributions, and a legal solution has been proposed and that means - pay the government, and the employee - if you can. What it means for the remaining Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, that I do not speak, and that is why it should have been suggested that, in this situation where there is no money for both profit and contribution, a compromise and reasonable solution should be found, which is that part of the funds left to be allocated for both income and contribution; 2) according to current legal solutions, an unemployed person who has had a retirement period of 30 and more years, was entitled to financial compensation, through the labour market for employees, i.e. to obtaining pension rights. Now it's the right to cash compensation, it's going to take up to 24 months. What should Serbs do from Kosovo and Metohija after 24 months? They've lost their doorstep, lost their country, and now they're without compensation. What do faces with over 30 years of internships, who will take them back in such a difficult economic situation? They're all stimulated to work and not guilty of losing their jobs. Who's that? Who doesn't want to work? Is it humane to leave these people without compensation, unless the Labour Market Office offers them a job. A large number of young and educated personnel have left Kosovo and Metohija, while a number of also large, educated personnel remain in Kosovo and Metohija. They should also be included in the envisaged legal solutions. I think that would be humane, economic and social justification, both for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and for those who have been exiled from their centuries-old hearths. Be assured that such legal solutions will not come to the support and understanding of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, as they are given. One question for the minister: will the government of the Republic of Serbia and other competent authorities still respect the decision of the Yugoslav Committee to pay further 80% of the personal income to those who are in Kosovo and Metohija, not by their guilt 100%, and to those who are doing stimulation and plus personal income? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5504	The word has been given by Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as representative of the parliamentary group, another announcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5505	Here, I'm lucky or unhappy, I'd say an accident, if the president would always come out when I take my word for it and leave me at your mercy and mercy, I don't just know if it was your wish or... But I expect the pitching to begin. So this jinx 13th item, this law, no smaller law, no more damage, although there are only 18 members of which at least 5 or 6 members, or we can count them in technical terms, and there are 6 members that we can directly say are directed, or against workers, or against the employer. There are no representatives of the government, not one of the DOS's representatives, who can find an argument that would kill what Serbian Radical Party MPs today are constantly trying to prove. Article 1 The bill is damaged by workers. The people whose work needs stop have been damaged, and I only think about one person category, workers who have more than 30 years of internships, those who are so far, if someone dared to give a 30-year-old man a job and a minimum of 50 years of life to quit because it was a technological surplus, because he stopped the need for his work, which he was sure would exercise his right to retire. Now, I'm instructing these workers to look at some American film, in which an employer soullessly, older man, who may still have a year to retire, says - you're fired. He goes home without any income he can count on in the future. This is Article 1. The bill, and if it weren't for that, you wouldn't be changing the existing provision so far. How come you don't change in 10 years, not in 20, not in 25, but only for people who have more than 30 years of training. Because you're told that the man who has the capital on that workforce, so he's going to invest it here to make us feel better, doesn't count. Article 2 unfavourable for workers, there is something that no one has pointed to so far, and that is that it no longer pays him a salary from the previous month as it has been until now, but from the previous three months. Why? Why does the bill promoter introduce it? Two percent were always there, and there and now, and because it's always less than the last month's earnings. It's not even 70% minimum anymore, it's 60%, and it's no longer in position 2. 50% minimum, but 40% is not full of profit, but 80% of that profit. Article 3. Negative for current employers, regardless of what the salaries are, and I'm surprised you didn't say that the employer must pay this kind of income for which the contributions will be paid. How can you determine how normal it is for an employer, some basis by which he will pay his contributions, and not by telling him to give so much sea and pay. So, the employer has to pay off what's written here and wait for him after that other negative member, article 13, by which you're going to shut down his company for up to 90 days, if he can't pay. Of course, Article 27j-1, here's the first time in nine years I've been an MP, I've read all the bill proposals that have come from anyone, I first come across Article 27j-1. If it's from Europe too, it's a lot. There are numbers from one to plus infinite, from minus infinite to zero, but number 27j-1 except in equations with one unknown I have never met before. What a minister like that and Article 27j-1. Article 7 is a purely regimeal member. The government has made sure that where there's the most money, that there's all the board members there alone, that they don't accidentally get involved. The Socialists had their own independent union, and the new DOS government has its own association of free and independent unions, so Vlasi would not have figured out -- trade unions that have more than 10,000 members. They're probably over 50, and the government will decide which union they're going to negotiate with. The DOS committed itself to the campaign, that it would immediately lift state chambers of commerce. The government here says two members will determine the Employers' Association, as you call it, which is this Chamber of Commerce. I think one of your deputies is here and the president of that state chamber. And that's just the president of the Chamber of the Republic of Serbia. The most interesting member to be referred to here is Article 14. I didn't see any amendments to that article. True, there is one wrong amendment by the Socialist Party of Serbia to article 14. It's a bill, but I'm talking about article 14. It's a bill of law. It brings to an unfair position workers who are now out of work with those who have lost their jobs during dictatorial, non-democracy and all kinds of authorities. What's the matter? A worker who has lost his job until the day of entry into force of this law and has 31 years of employment will wait and receive compensation until he settles years for retirement. A worker who runs out of work after June 1st has no right, but only has the right to 24 months' wages. Is that what you're telling the workers now, hurry up and get fired? Look, if a man sits down now and counts on whether he's better off this hour to stop his employment and if he's 32 years old and he's getting paid for eight years until he reaches retirement age or stays at work until August, September, and then he gets shot down, so that he only gets two years of compensation, the question is when he sits down and that math can easily show what's more worth it. Is this really the moment to get rid of the workforce as soon as possible, and this will certainly be published by the newspaper, which individuals will seek salvation in the fact that the sooner they stop working, counting on you to pay them off from the budget for an additional 8, 7, 5 years. First, I'd like to ask these workers to be careful. You can't stay so long in power at all, and secondly for you as people who propose and pass laws in this congregation there is no sanctity, there is no legal certainty, there are no laws that have been passed once that you will not now retroactively change them. There's no job done in accordance with the Law that you can't say is not legal. Especially if the law was passed at a time when you're in opposition, that law doesn't exist for you at all, it's just a question of when you'll remember which one to change retroactively. That's why I recommend that people who work, to whom this law applies, think carefully. They really have two different options. I'm taking a 30-year internship and if I had to decide what to do, I'd have to think a lot about it. The minister so intelligently looks at me that I would never ask him for advice, and there are smart people with whom I would ask for advice, but they don't know what DOS will solve in 5, 10, 15, 20 days, whether or not this law will stay, whether or not it will be applied for at least one month. The law sucks. I don't know what his goal is. If his goal is to keep the empty halls waiting for those who will restore some production in them, he will achieve the goal. If his goal is to have a ferocious involvement between workers and employers, not to think about one or the other, but only his incomes, it can take several months, and then there will be no more workers, no more employers, but neither will these authorities be.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5506	The word has a National MP Jovanovic Dragan, and the next one registered for discussion is MP Slobodan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5507	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we have evaluated and graduated previous packages, if we have said that the Law on Taxation of Assets is bad, if we have said that the Law on Taxation of Movement Goods is even worse, I am free to say that this law with a package of social policy laws, the Law on Health and the Law on Pension Insurance is the worst so far. The worst, because it has the most serious consequences behind it. I did not go out with the intention of criticising, but I came out with the intention of asking fellow MPs from opposition parties, since we certainly will not adopt the law today, there is no time, that when they return to their environments to try to go to some 14th October, some of their Nitexes, some of their textile factories, some of their metal factories, some of their construction factories, some of their own leather industry factories, some of their factories in the area of social commerce, and when they come in on Monday to try to face arguments, to come out and disprove what I'm about to say. Gentlemen, perhaps by some professional deformity and what I did before, and I did a job similar to Mrs. Ljilja Milosavljevic, we worked in related ministries, so if Mr. Minister didn't know any of the information he had anyone to tell him. He had a Department of Statistics, he had a payment service, he had factories, and if he had looked at the papers a little bit, if he had listened to some advice from those who had worked before, this law would not have seen the light of day. What do I want to tell you? I did a mini analysis at 36 factories in the textile industry, in the metal industry, in the area of the skin, in the area of social trade, in the area of the slaughterhouse industry, in the area of social hospitality. The analyses show that the application of these lowest bases in a very short time after the law enters the law will shut down these companies. Far below five and a half thousand is the current gross salary in these companies, so that when this tax base is applied and contributes to a five-and-a-half thousand and salary contributions will be nothing left for workers' salaries. But it will remain so little that the contributions will be more times the wages paid. And the most well-intentioned MP, when he starts to think about laws like this, he has to wonder, we're not wrong, what is the purpose of these laws. If it's the point of making a good law then there's a table review, what I'm talking about. You have the data in every place. They have them at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the former ministry, there are them in the Department of Payments, there are them in factories, and they are given an overview of the number of workers, and since I was deputy Minister of Industry, I say, we freed the contributors, that there are hundreds of thousands of workers who, when subject to these criteria of minimum contributions, will not receive the salary. When the payments are made, they will come under the influence of these laws on criminal measures. Is the goal - we have to ask ourselves. I'd like you to convince me from this pay phone if it wasn't for what Mr. Nikolic said to empty the halls. If that's not the point, then we have to come out here with arguments. I'm telling you very responsible that in the textile industry you have in Belgrade, you don't have to go far, go to FON, "dragon", IMT, go to textile combinations, you don't have to go far, you don't have to go to Leskovac in the textile industry, to Kruševac in "14 October", you can simulate it very nicely here and show it to us on examples, and we'll support you if it can pay the industry. We know how long it takes for retirement, how much health care, but it's not the starting point - as much as it takes. The starting point is as much as you can pick up. The aim of the law is to pick up more. I assure you, and I'd like to make an analysis after a while that this kind of base in some future is going to get a lot less. Why? Workers who don't receive wages and pay contributions will go on strike, so we won't take anything for it. A special story is private employers. I don't know if it's just me or the opposition MPs who go to shops, cafes and private employers. Listen to what private employers say, what they say on the lowest basis of five and a half thousand dinars. Ask them intimately, not as authority. Ask them intimately how many of them they intend to fire the workers or log out. That's what you ask, so come here and we'll face the arguments. I see a criminal provision. Well, please, don't guard the state and don't provide the financial police, the police. It provides a stimulating tax policy and a stimulating base. I think it would be much better if this base, and I've given the amendment to all three laws, brought reality, but I'd like one of you to come out of the field on Monday and say, "Please, in my city metal industry..." branches. I'm not talking about high-profit branches. And I don't want to make mistakes, the law is better for those who do good, it'll have some benefits. But for a large number of workers, a huge number of workers he's terrible. I can't think about the consequences of what's about to happen. Once again, I would like to ask you, I would like to appeal to you to come out, and we are facing some arguments, because all MPs are from a field, we didn't fall off a pear, we didn't fall off a pear, we didn't want you to try to show it to us and convince yourself. You don't have to convince us. I understand that you have some directives that have to be voted on, but let's try to reach an argument in some exchanges whether these bases are as they are, durable. Go to scientific institutions, to the "Geozavod" Belgrade, which has the 30th Doctor of Science, see if the foundation of the 12,000 dinars of the institution can bear on the basis of work so far. When he pays his contribution at 12,000 he won't be paid. To go back again depends on what it is and where it is. This may be good for some ideas and I won't doubt it from this place, that it is, but for real work, for the functioning of the pension system, for the social one, I think this increase in base will be counterproductive from the initial intention, if that was the intention, to raise more funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5508	He has the word National MP Slobodan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5509	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I thought I'd speak unlike Mr. Tom Nikolic under the chairmanship of the vice president, but I wasn't lucky. A few days ago, one of the Serbian Radical Party MPs took part in the debate and warned that he had gone a little off topic that each exhibition had an introduction, development and conclusion. I agree with that finding and everyone who deals with these affairs must certainly accept that it is. I think it was Mr. Arsic, but I don't mention him giving me a replica because he won't have a reason. I am about to present my presentation on the principle debate on the employment law and the exercise of the right of unemployed persons in that order. In the opening part, I would say something, and when it comes to previous laws, that the resolute minister, in this case Mr Milovanovic, as last time, came out for a pay phone, read the prepared text of the bill's reasoning. With the utmost respect for his personality, we don't hear anything new and no new arguments that would shed light on what is in the law. After that, this time it was not, since Mr Ceda Jovanovic was not there, and I apologize for having to say, as a rule, on behalf of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr Jovanovic rightly expresses the views of the parliamentary majority, as president of the parliamentary group, but very often he explains and defends the views of either the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Secretary-General, which I do not think is business and is not right. The bill should defend those who propose and all MPs and all MPs have the same right to speak of the matter. Of course, most people have the right to pass the law, and there's nothing else we can do about it. Then we come from opposition parties, opposition MPs, we criticise the law, we give amendments, then we declare that there is criticism for criticism, we usurp the right, we disrupt the work, and so on, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia would accept our amendments, give them as its own, and then we adopt them and give an answer to everything. In the second part, it is a colleague - development, there is no need for anxiety, in the light of the employment law and the achievement of the rights of unemployed persons, it is said that this law is being passed for reasons -- the introduction of gross earnings, which requires a change in the area of compulsory social security. Furthermore, that the scope of the right depends on the size of the investment of each individual, then that the principle of solidarity is allegedly present, then that a single basis is established, hence the gross basis for paying taxes and paying contributions and so on. You'd say everything's fine from the point of view of the promoter and so on. But don't lie down. Already the first member to propose and pray that what I am saying is not now declaring that I am some working mother, so now we Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia or other opposition parties are fighting more for workers and workers' rights than these others, but we only point to the truth, Mr Bogdanovic. And it is true that, therefore, the first member, as everyone said, is immediately proposing to abolish the existing right of unemployed workers. Instead of being – the right to cash compensation at the Institute to new employment or pension, the law now proposes the right to 24 months’ wages on condition that he has 30 years of employment. And now the logical question is -- what are the unemployed workers going to do, with over 30 years of work experience. Who's gonna take such workers to work? In what companies can they hire them? And that's a better economic situation, let alone in this one. Furthermore, on the basis of which the argument in the argument is very imperative, that they were not stimulated to seek employment, that they were working "on black", and I must say that such a claim is small and inhumane, incorrect and irresponsible. Secondly, in Article 4, or as Mr. Toma Nikolic read, 27j-1, and I read 27jj-1, what I want to talk about is the employer's obligation to pay contributions according to the basics, which are given in table 1-8. They are as one of my colleagues explained, that they have increased, from two for the first category, to six times for the eighth category and are obliged to pay, whether the workers have received the salary or not. I'm asking-- where else does that have such a solution and what arguments can that be defended? This team before the basics have been established and we don't really know, the rates haven't been established. I can say that it is not disputed to pay a contribution at the lowest rate in that variant, but if the employer doesn't have the means to make a profit, he won't be able to contribute. Perhaps it is good for the government of the Republic of Serbia, proposed by Minister Milovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, the majority who will adopt this, to consider making changes and additions. In that sense, we have submitted amendments that in that variant the employer has at his disposal, possibly divided, so part gets the workers, and part goes for other purposes. Otherwise, it's going to be what one of my colleagues already said, and that's -- the state pays the commitments you have, and for everyone else doesn't matter, and I have to say, it's not even reformal, it's not humane, it's indicative and it leads to something third, and that's third (that's now the conclusion I'm going to make in my presentation) about the following -- not approximately, but very precise. First, it is obvious that this law, as well as the Labour Relations Act, as well as other tax laws, which Mr. Milovanovic was not the author and promoter, but Mr. Djeric, is the consequence of everything being unreal and too high a budget adopted for 2001, which I am about, and other MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia, in this parliament, as well as other opposition partners were talking about, it must now be filled. Everything that is now proposed, both in terms of taxes, and in terms of contributions, and in terms of public revenues, goes for such a budget to be filled. That's one. Two, there is no dilemma in the proposal to increase the obligations of both current and future employers. Mr. Vukic made a parallel about how it can be explained now, that the growth and obligations of employers, and they reduce the rights of workers, he explained and not disputed, I agree with his assessment and I confirm it, but it is obvious that the obligations of employers, compared to what was proposed, are two to six times greater. Third, the rights of unemployed workers are reduced, everyone has proven that and there is no dilemma. Fourthly, what is given in Article 5, and so far no one has spoken about it, and I want to particularly underline it, which is - Article 5 is given the rights to resolute labour ministers, social security, to prescribe ways of accounting and payment of contributions, so that we don't really know - firstly, there are no explanations, no arguments in the law at all - when will the ministers agree, how will they agree, which figures will be agreed on, and lastly, and what if they don't agree at all with a common agreement of relations? What's behind it - so the law can't be implemented. With that in mind, I also mention Article 18, which provides for the law to enter into force on July 1st. Given all that I have said and what has been written, I propose to the Proposer, I propose to the parliamentary majority, that this law be withdrawn from the procedure, or that Article 18 be amended and that it be applied, as someone has already proposed, since 1 January 2002, to create conditions for it to be realised and to correct these things that have obviously been missed in the basic proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5510	How'd you get this up to date?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5511	Look, please, give me a public commendation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5512	It's a public commendation. The word came first from Mr Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that we are nearing the end of today's session, and that we have accepted that tomorrow we have a session, which we have now received a meeting, I have to point out that in this conference we are talking about, Mr. President, about some resolution on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, which we have not seen, which we do not know who the promoter is, which we are supposed to have today, so that we may be able to discuss tomorrow prepared. The theme is so serious, I'd ask you to control your low passions for at least five minutes. It's about Kosovo and Metohija. I'm not going out to hurt anyone, but I'd like to have a serious debate tomorrow, a serious topic. Tomorrow we'll tell each other who's to blame, and what should we do, but in order to be ready for tomorrow's session, please Mr. President, at least tell us -- who's proposing this resolution, why haven't we already got it, if you have it, what kind of session that you know will arrive at the motion for a resolution? Who is this authorised promoter, who spoke to you and told you that he has some text resolution (this was still this morning), which is why you have already scheduled the session, held a press conference, and we still don't have that resolution. If the government, the government had enough time, as soon as it sent a spokesman to the public yesterday, Momciel Trajkovic, to hint at these sessions, could first write a motion for a resolution, I agree that the government can also deliver a motion for a resolution, but that tomorrow we have one thorough, serious debate, as people who, along with all the arguments about labour laws, taxes, have a serious view of what is going on in Kosovo and Metohija and what we should do. So I ask you, Mr. President, not to part ways without giving us at least basic information, to prevent a debate about it tomorrow morning, when the people should get the impression that we are serious people, concerned about the fate of the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5514	Of course, the question is quite appropriate, it is technical reasons, i.e. the reasons of technical nature. No one has any intention of having this session, with such an important point, which we have in this way and agreedly scheduled for tomorrow, in any way speeding up. Simply, when you get the text of the motion for a resolution tomorrow, and one draft is done today, it has been reviewed, it has been discussed, however, very briefly, at the meeting of the president of the parliamentary groups, the definitive proposal will be given tomorrow, we will determine enough time, that all MPs, which is about one-and-a-half of the text, are not too large, to study, that they can prepare for the discussion, and then we will continue to work, so there will be no problems in that part. Otherwise, the proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Minister Milovanovic picked up the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5515	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs, listening to the opposition's presentations, I was impressed (the ambassadors of the Serbian Radical Party are leaving the session)... I would remind you only that this is about amending the Employment Act, and that the law was written earlier, and adopted by the very representatives of the opposition, who were then in power. In this law only proposed certain changes, related to the gross system, so that all these stories, which have been made here, should be understood as a rebuke to the opposition. Why is that? Because all of these members have already been in that law, and we're just doing a little of it. You must understand the situation, that we, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia sees the future of this country in a much better light than you are looking at. We have no intention of encouraging unemployment here, but we intend to encourage employment. In this direction, the government of the Republic of Serbia is working. I must remind you and tell you that what this government has done so far is going in that direction, in the direction of employment. A few days ago, the government made a decision to invest 100m marks in Serbia's economy, with the goal of large employment and economic incentives in this country. I must remind you that this government has formed an internal debt regulation commission, and these debts have been incurred during the rule of today's opposition and these debts amount to 835 billion dinars. Because of these debts and because of this situation in the economy, we have this situation, that a large number of workers are forced to receive small salaries, that a large number of workers are now at the Labour Market Office. We with our policy want it to change and it will change normally. Some of you from the opposition attended a meeting held in the Chamber of Commerce, where an internal debt issue was discussed. This means that this government will allow the economy to function successfully. This means that this government will make it possible for the economy to have pure jury accounts. This means that this government will take care of itself to encourage development. The government intends to form a transition fund as soon as possible. The transition fund aims to take care of the so-called surplus workers. That means those people will be taken care of. These people will be the concerns of the state and their only task will be to qualify, overqualified and that when retraining is carried out they will be employed in those opening jobs. That's what this government is planning to do and that's why I don't think there's room for so much concern by the opposition. If everything isn't as black as you represent, I'll just say one thing about compensation, which stands out for the unemployed. The current law provides for compensation to be paid at between 50% and 100% of the net amount. Currently, net earnings are 4,070 dinars, which means that 50% is 2,035 dinars, and normally a maximum of 4,070. When the gross system is applied to that profit, it amounts to 8.120 dinars, 40% of which is 3,250, and 80% 6,400, which means that workers who are at the Bureau will receive more compensation than they have received so far. When it comes to workers who have more than 30 years of employment, and you know very well that employers are in fact the most esteemed and respected such workers and that such workers are not fired, for the simple reason that they are involved in all technological processes and that their experience is very valuable to the employer. But this is where you mentioned the Privatization Act. I would remind you that the Privatisation Act provides for workers to have the right to 400 marks of free stock for each year of work. Not more than 35 years old, which means that the worker will receive nearly 14,000 marks of action, but true values, which gives them one security. That means they won't stay as unsettled as they claim here. In any case, this law is just one transitional solution to the new employment law that this ministry will do, as is currently the case with the new labour law. These laws are done respecting tripartism and respecting social partners, trade unions, employers and the state. I expect that such a law will benefit all three social partners. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5516	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that we make a decision and put it to a vote in line with the representatives of the parliamentary groups that today's, so we interrupt the Second Session of the First Regular Session and continue it Monday at 10 pm. Of course, we'll make that clear by voting. That's why I'm saying, let's get this straight. Let me remind you that for tomorrow, just a moment, there are other suggestions regarding the sequel, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5517	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to propose something that one of the MPs has brought out today in his performance, namely, the Republic Parliament has never worked in the continuity in which he is working today. I'll remind you that for the past two and a half months, we held more sessions in this assembly than was the case in three years of the previous assembly. I would like to say that there is a need in the work of the parliamentary groups for one day off during the working week, so that MPs can meet other obligations. In some of the consultations held today, MPs asked that the day be next Monday, so that they could make up for what was left unfinished, and since we worked in continuity for three weeks. So, if we can continue the session on Tuesday and Monday we can have the day off. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-03-0.u5518	I am proposing that the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly be terminated and that we continue with the work of the Second Session at 10.00 p.m. on Tuesday. I ask the People's Messengers to declare it. I am concluding the vote and I am saying: for 162 against one, the abstentioned one, did not vote 8, a total of 172 MPs were present. So, we interrupt the session, we continue on Tuesday, and tomorrow is the third session of the first regular session at 11.00 p.m.
