ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7629	Mr. President, before you turn on the clock, I'd like to ask, under Article 89. Rules of Procedure, if you'd let me speak longer or put together an opening and closing word, I wouldn't really answer for a word afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7630	I think it's just fine, that's the kind of practice we've had before, to put together an exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7631	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Serbian citizens, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group has tabled a motion for a vote of mistrust to the minister of justice and local self-government Dr Vladan Batic, and to know who it is - this is the minister who appears at the National Assembly meetings only in the prime time of 19.00. We ask that there be no minister, a man who hates, who does not hide his hatred, who is guided by hatred, influences all the moves he makes and who directly destroys the lives of many Serbian citizens and members of their families. He came to power with October's demolition demonstrations, whose consequences he was responsible for both what he did and what he could do, and he didn't. Here's evidence in the News of October 8, 2000. I quote Vladan Batic, "Before midnight in the room of the Democratic Christian Party in downtown Belgrade", it is October 5th "the police captain went in pale and scared. He asked me to do something to prevent the lynching of his 20 colleagues trapped in the city's SPS Committee building on Student Square. The father of Vasilija, a representative of the Raško-Prizren diocese, who found himself there," where he came from, "and 15 of us from the party were immediately on our way. The atmosphere in the building was catastrophic. Half-glazed glass, tear gas smoke and a mass that was printed in the hall and on the stairs. Cops were in a restaurant in the basement, completely freaked out. I told them not to be afraid, that we'd get them out of the building. They looked at us first with the infidel, but they came with us anyway. I spoke to the crowd, explained that those officers were also victims of this regime, which people without a word let us through. We took them to our party's premises, where they headed safely to their station." So it was up to him. He could have saved the Federal Assembly building and Serbian Television. His appearance and call would be sufficient for people to stop the terror, to destroy, to burn and to blow up the property of the people. This team was behind the pay phone at the time of the burning of the Federal Assembly building and saw what was going on. But how do you expect that from the man who's been making recommendations for the post of minister of justice and local self-government, he's got armed incursions in Galenika, the Zastava car factory in Kragujevac, wherever he wanted and where he thought he had something to get away with. On 11 October 2000, about 9.30 a.m., with three luxury cars, Vladan Batic and his escorts, armed with helicopters, who are now unauthorized and supplied with police badges or fake ministers, entered the Galenika to steal it from Serbian citizens and give it to Milan Panic, a client of attorney Vladan Batic, the honorary president and investor of the Democratic Party of Serbia, whose Vladan Batic is president. According to Slobodan Rondovic, general director of Belgrade's security company, which was provided by Galenika, Vladan Batic called on security to put down weapons, waving papers and shouting that a Paris court had ruled that AD "Gallenika" had their property and had to surrender immediately. Since then, the lobby that is trying to kidnap Galenika from Serbia and hand it over to Milan Panic has deceived workers and the public, and the factory is further away from us. Here's the evidence. Serbia's government did not appoint its representative in the forced administration, but that is why in late April, when the commission of Vuk Obradovic unequivocally found that in Galenica, the majority state capital was announced that the government would appoint a factory director. Vladan Batic knows that forced administration has been introduced in the factory and that the director cannot be appointed until the court has abolished the forced administration, but he is not responding or perhaps reacting by misleading Zoran Djindjic and citing him to the wrong steps, or perhaps Zoran Djindjic is taking part in all this. I call upon him to plead and remove the indictment from his name. Zoran Djindjic suspects me because at the time he was in opposition, he accused the state of Serbia of kidnapping Milan Panic's Galenika factory. If Zoran Djindjic were clean in this, no one could prevent him from presenting a judicial solution to the government, under which the government is obliged to appoint a member in the three-member body of the Galenika factory's management on behalf of the state. Worse, before the eight-day deadline, which the government has ordered to appoint a factory director, the court is opening a preliminary procedure for setting the conditions for opening the liquidation procedure. "Politics" says about it in May 8th and 10th numbers. If that's true, the government can no longer appoint its member in an emergency administration, even if it wants to. Whether this court is acting on its own behind the back of the government and without its knowledge, and especially because there is no reason to liquidate the factory. Would the court have committed itself to blatantly breaking the rules and compromising itself, it is hard to believe and it is obvious that it is the rope between the court and some people in the government, Vladan Batic, surely, and Zoran Djindjic owes the plea. While the government firmly promises workers that it will appoint a director, behind the back of the entire public, forges the liquidation of the factory, which will lead to her surrender in the hands of honourary DHSS president Milan Panic. Why did this lobby decide to push the whole thing to court? Because they can't go to Paris arbitration or anywhere else to make a decision that Panic's capital is in the majority factory, which would be enough for him to take over the factory permanently and manage it permanently. It's their only chance left. They want to isolate the case, remove it from the public and hide behind illegal court decisions. Explaining the demagogues that the court did all this on its own initiative, that the court was independent of its work, that no one should interfere in the work of the court and that we are all obliged to respect the court's decisions. Then what's waiting for us? It is likely that the Galenika factory's court will liquidate and delete from the court register, while the state and Panic establish a new factory, according to Vladan Batic, that anything is possible as the state and Panic agree. On the day of opening the winding-up procedure, the employment relationship of all employees by law shall cease. The court may be in charge of the winding-up procedure, but will not finish it, but it will end the procedure in the following practice with healing measures, including certain layoffs of all workers, and then the return of 1,000 similar, as Panic publicly declares that he does not need more workers. Then he will likely re-evaluate Galenika's assets, as Vladan Batic said ten days ago on TV that he would solve the problem by hiring a very prominent foreign company to re-evaluate the value of Galenika. These manipulations will increase the living percentage of Panic's role to over 50% of the total value, and then Galenika will become a commercial company that will deal with imports and packaging of foreign medicines. Vladan Batic is Panic's man in the Serbian government and the main culprit for the state of chaos in Galenica. That condition, since his lawyer's office represents Milan Panic, is in line. As minister, he protects the state interests as a goat would guard the cabbage if someone trusted him with such a task. With a factory kidnapped by the people, he repays Milan Panic, a member of the Mun sect, the honorary president of the DHSS for everything he has done for him with his bosses in America. Using long-range weapons with his second sponsor, Miodrag Savivić, he broke into the Zastava car factory and publicly announced that from that moment on DHSS is taking care of production and workers. Now it's produced on the lowest branches since the factory exists, and workers can't wait to see their savior in a factory circle with or without hackers. At the head of the Mejdanpek copper mine, Batic set up his own man. Since then, of the 2,918 workers employed, only 780 were employed, and the cause of the four handicrafts on transport systems. When representatives of the labour union tell the director that he is responsible for reporting, neglect and incompetence, he responds that they can't do anything to him, because his political party is the head of justice. There's another hijacker of Zorka Farms, etc. Since 5 October, Batic has been using their organized and masked armed bandits, provided with official IDs - real or false, ministers, to achieve their interests. The last incursion was on Palm Television, Belgrade, which it had completely under its control, immediately abolished three political shows that included representatives of the opposition. Whether a man is prone to violence and self-government, who does not accept constitutional and legal limitations, can perform those functions. "Evening News" on November 9th 2000 reveal the true essence of Batic's personality. Citiram Batic: "If, however, Radomir Markovic does not resign until Friday, November 10th 2000, I think it will be high time to apply the reserve plan, which is the definitive shift of Markovic in the Serbian government or ahead of it." How he behaves as a representative of the authority of the man from whom human fate depends. He's not stopping. He's used to extra-institutional action, and he's willing to apply it even when he's part of the institutions himself. If there's no consent, dress up the bulldozer and kick ass. In the Serbian government, there is no more two-faced minister, and his statements are mostly made at different times. Politics, 19 January 2001: Police and public prosecutors and courts are said to be not responding because they are waiting for politicians to give them a sign. Batic: The new government has adopted certain rules of conduct. It is forbidden for any member of the government and any resolution minister to interfere and influence the work of the courts, the media, the police. It's going to be heresy, and because of that heresy, we're going to lose the resort, we've introduced it as a new rule. Voice, January 22, 2001: You are mentioned as a minister who will enter history, which will be brought to justice during your term as a member of the former regime. Vladan Batic: This will not be done by the government and ministers, but by the courts, because we will create a system of independent and free judiciary. You'd say man, the principles of taking off his hat. But the Voice, January 28, 2001, Vladan Batic: In a few days, the resolution of those prosecutors and judges who compromised under the past regime will begin. "News", 30 January 2001: Vladan Batic announced changes yesterday at the top of Serbia's judiciary and stressed that judges who, according to him, have been relieved of duties will be rehabilitated and some of them will take up high functions. "Blic", February 18, 2001: In Parliament's session, although people were named for the highest functions in the judiciary and abolished the laws, DOS did not respect the procedure and regulations under which the Assembly must operate; will you also behave in the future? Vladan Batic: I mean, you know, you know what, it... It's something that's secondary, it's new services that are being stalked. There's these tiny technical failures, but when someone wants to find something for you, they're looking for hair in the egg. Many accused you of accusing you of accusing and condemning Slobodan Milosevic through newspapers, without court, and that you should answer for it, do you feel guilty? First, this, what Slobodan Milosevic did to his people, will be decided by the judicial authorities, and the damage he caused us was my political position, which I gave until I was minister of justice. There is no reason to regret it, Milosevic should repent of everything he has done to his people. You also said that Milosevic should be responsible for abuse of office, occupation, capitulation, spreading false news. Vladan Batic: Yes, but I am not... I'm not accusing, I can express my personal position, and that was my personal position. It's normal for me to be able to say what I think about it, it's not pressure. I didn't invite and train anyone, and that's how the minister of justice and the entire government will be. The Voice, April 30, 2001 - Priboj - People think that the minister of justice can change everything by some magic wand. It is not so, given the current laws in the area, to the complicated procedure of changing judges and holders of judicial functions, but we must do so. We did it at Belgrade level and you immediately saw what the shift was. How many people from the top owned the defendant's bench and in the custody of Central Prison. Did you change to find people from the top of the former government on the defendant's bench, Mr. Minister? According to him these days, a selection will be carried out at the level of all holders of functions, the president of courts, district, municipal and economic, district and municipal public prosecutors, as these people, Batic, claimed, were the extended hand of the government. And they were making up for it. "Blic", 31 March 2001: The minister of justice announced that Serbia's Supreme Court will hold a public session on the Đakovic group of 140 Albanians, sentenced to long-standing prison sentences at the end of April, where complaints of the defendants and defenders will be discussed. How is it that everyone is released, and what is the impact that the Supreme Court has the direct interest of the minister in this case? Vladan Batic is now meant to say who has been compromised, who cannot perform judicial functions, judges who have ruled the disputes against his clients and judges who are members of the senior regime's political parties. Vladan Batic demonstrates the ability to organise mounted court and political processes. The laws for him are not an obstacle and obligation, where law or judge cannot follow resolutions and find new judges ready to act immediately on the orders of Minister Batic. He's constantly threatening judges to get rid of them because they're part of the former regime. Threats are illegal, but backed by criminal behavior, gangs, they're serious and scary people who work their way through families. Vladan Batic does not agree to an independent judiciary. It requires the absolute subordination of the judiciary at all stages of the procedure. He believes that as a minister now he has the opportunity to recover from all frustrations of a failed lawyer and that all judicial cases must end with the means in the way he did when he was a lawyer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7632	Mr. Nikolic, I just asked you not to use disqualifications and things like that today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7633	As a lawyer, he rarely appeared in court, so let him sue me, except for cases he has agreed in advance in court offices or halls and today it is unimaginable to represent citizens in cases as justice minister. Just one proof. According to cases 686/97 and 567/00, which are headed in the Municipality court in Valjevo in the private prosecutor's case against the prosecutor, Kosana Radojcic of Lovcanik, whose lawyer is Vladan Batic of Belgrade. The verdicts were reached on 2 March and 3 March 2001. The words of the solution state the name Vladan Batic. Minister of Power, that's the only way to get at least one dispute. Vladan Batic as justice minister and local self-government against the Constitution and laws held a press conference informing the public that he was arrested as head of the State Security Service Radomir Markovic. This arrest was also required by the public to inform the interior or public prosecutor's representative, starting with legal authority on lighting, disclosure, initiation and conduct of criminal proceedings against suspects. The minister of justice and local self-government is not authorized to disclose this and similar information to the public. With this statement, Vladan Batic proved that he was not handling the Constitution and laws in his work, that he acted irresponsiblely and unwittingly, and that he was knowingly misusing his function in order to persecute non-insistents. The statement shows that it has an unhindered impact on the work of other competent state authorities, with a desire to extend its functions to other areas that are not within the power of the ministry, whose head it is. "Politika", 25 February 2001: A recent head of state security of Serbia, Rade Markovic, one of former President Slobodan Milosevic's closest associates, was arrested at a press conference last night by Republic Justice Minister Vladan Batic. Rade Markovic is the first senior official of the former regime deprived of liberty, on the grounds of suspicion that he committed the murder. That Rade Markovic was arrested at his house Friday night around 7:30 p.m. "Politici" confirmed his wife, Ivo Markovic. They came and arrested him in front of me, told us there was a 30-day arrest. The lawyer wasn't here and we weren't charged. I was told later that it was picked up on Saturday. On the occasion of this information that lightningd both the country and the world at 10:00 p.m. last night in the Republic government, an extraordinary meeting was held with journalists, attended by Cedomir Jovanovic, the head of the DOS parliamentary group in the Serbian Parliament, except for Vladan Batic. Probably as a police officer. A case against Radomir Markovic, former head of the State Security Service of the Republic of Serbia, was launched to conduct an investigation on reasonable suspicion of committing the murder, etc., Justice Minister Vladan Batic said at a late-night press conference in the Serbian government. "According to my knowledge," I quote Batic, "an intensive hearing is under way and I expect the investigation to be completed very quickly, in two or three days, after which we will be able to provide other information," Batic said to numerous journalists and added that everything is now in the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities, and that for a criminal offence for which the suspect Rade Markovic is scheduled by law to punish at least 10 years in prison, but also the death penalty. Since 1 March 2001, "The Voice of the Public" has been conveyed under the heading "The Conspiracy of the Government and the Prosecutor's Office" by Radet Terzic, an official of the district attorney in Belgrade. The deal with the government is not to provide information, Terzic explained in a corridor where journalists waited for him for more than two hours. This is the attitude V.D. The prosecutor is provoking a surprise in legal circles, as prosecutors under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are a separate body and that the judiciary is separate from the administration. The power is governed by the principle of division into legislative, executive and judicial power. Vladan Batic would have to know that as a representative of the executive government he cannot and must not interfere, interfere and influence a judicial authority that must be independent. Vladan Batic does not know on the basis of which provisions of the Constitution or of any co-zakon he has the right to inform the public of the details of the investigation. How can he know details that must only be known to the judicial branch of power, which is independent? Vladan Batic acknowledges that he is directly involved in carrying out tasks that exceed the powers of the justice minister and local self-government. Vladan Batic proves that with Prime Minister Djindjic and Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, he is some archbishop of the absolute government, subject to all branches of government. Why do the three within the DOS take up starting positions at the expense of their coalition partners? The minister revealed this in a statement in "Blica" on 18 April 2001 in a text entitled "DOS on elections in several columns". Will DOS uniquely welcome new elections? Vladan Batic: DOS is a dedicated coalition that has done the main part by winning the elections and replacing Milosevic's regime. What foreign force or alliance did she do this job for, Minister? What does Vladan Batic say when he is in Serbia? "Blic", 13 March: The changes and additions to the Criminal Law of Serbia will be held at the next session of the National Assembly, according to Vladan Batic, justice minister and DHSS leader at yesterday's press conference. Where's the law so far, Minister? Speaking of announcements and demands for the arrests of Slobodan Milosevic, Batic stressed that the trial against the SPS leaders would lead a free and independent judiciary, regardless of public opinion and pressure from the political parties and the UN tribunal. He said there was no time limit on anything, especially not criminal proceedings. We'll make that clear to the people of The Hague and I think we'll come to an understanding. It's not March 31st, he said. And it was for you and your socks, Minister, that night you arrested him. The bishop of Rasko-Prizren Artemia (where he came from) criticised the new authorities in Serbia at the conference, saying -- people living in Kosovo had previously been left to themselves and said that the solution to the Kosovo problem could not be found without a new democratic authority. The government has now arrived, but democratic changes have not yet arrived in Kosovo. It's like they're on foot. I don't think the new authorities in Belgrade know what to do with us. The bishop Artemis added that he did not see a good reason why Milosevic is not still in prison. What Vladan Batic, affected by the syndrome of a small man who shaved at the master's house, said in the Netherlands. "Glas", 21 March 2001: Justice Minister Batic said on his arrival in the Netherlands -- a circle surrounding Milosevic closes. The arrest is expected by March 31st or shortly afterwards, after the round around it is closed, Batic told the Amsterdam International Airport for Dutch TV NOS. Batic added that Milosevic will soon be on the indictee's bench. In addition to Batic in the Yugoslav delegation were of course also Momcilo Grubač and Rade Terzic. "News", 21 March 2001 - The Hague - Serbian Justice Minister Vladan Batic said yesterday at the international war crimes court's headquarters in former SFRY territory that an intensive investigation into former SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic is being conducted in Belgrade. A large number of his close associates give us interesting information and it is very likely that a criminal trial will be launched soon, Batic told reporters after a two-hour talks with UN chief prosecutor Carla del Ponte. He noted, however, that he is not in his jurisdiction to discuss arrests and investigations. Co-operation with The Hague is the crown of a striking head and is completely revealing the task that Vladan Batic has been financed, although the president of the minor political party. His task is to extradite Serbs to The Hague and provide you with evidence of this claim. In statements conveying public information, Vladan Batic announces the names of a person to be delivered to The Hague tribunal, although he is familiar with the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia that a Yugoslav citizen cannot be deprived of citizenship, expelled from the country, or extradited. So Vladan Batic, as Serbian minister, directly helps those who bombed us and who, through the UN tribunal, are trying to free themselves of responsibility for war crimes committed during NATO aggression. To make things even weirder, just when the public opinion of Western countries is being built on by NATO bombings and admits the mistakes and crimes of the US administration and its President Bill Clinton, Vladan Batic seeks to act and declare, contrary to the Constitution and laws, to announce and prepare the delivery of our citizens to the UN tribunal where he should, with our allegedly greater guilt to wash away the shame of Western democracy. When individual members of the United Nations Security Council demand a further review of the existence of the UN war crimes tribunal at the premises of the former SFRY, Vladan Batic, as minister of affairs and statements, struggles to preserve an institution aimed at persecuting Serbs. "Today", 23 January 2001: Vladan Batic, president of the DHSS and future minister of justice in the Serbian government, will see Carla del Ponte, chief UN prosecutor of The Hague tribunal on Thursday, DHSS Vice-President Zivojin Stjepic said yesterday at a press conference. The tribunal is an institution established by the United Nations and is accepted by the international community. The DHSS has always advocated co-operation with the international community, which is, after all, a pre-election promise from the DOS. It's our principled attitude. He added that the topic of Batic and Carla del Ponte's talks will certainly be the contradiction of the domestic constitution that does not allow the delivery of Yugoslav citizens to the tribunal, with an explicit request from the chief prosecutor to be tried in The Hague. DOS is likely to insist on changing Serbia's constitution, Stjepic concluded. "Blic", January 25th, 2001, title -- There are no obstacles to the co-operation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia with the tribunal. Vladan Batic, the DHSS and the future Republic Justice Minister, who is scheduled to meet with Carla del Ponte, chief UN tribunal prosecutor, believes there are no obstacles to the co-operation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia with the tribunal. As he explained, in the Yugoslav Constitution and the laws there is no ban on handing over criminals to the UN court, but only to the courts of other countries; and that is why he should not have been elected as minister. "News", 30 January 2001 -- former Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic will certainly end up in The Hague, the only question is whether it will be immediately or shortly later and how it will leave, voluntarily or will be delivered to the tribunal by the new authorities. This is what Vladan Batic, the newly elected justice minister, speaks for "News". The minister believes it would be best for Milosevic to follow the example of Biljana Plavsic, and if he does not do so to The Hague, he can get there immediately, if the Dayton Agreement is properly interpreted, or in two or three months when regulations are passed in Serbia as well as in Croatia, in which it is possible to deliver our citizens to international institutions. Carla del Ponte in a conversation with me has shown her understanding and has not insisted for any quick moves at all. It is only firm in the view that the defendants must appear before the tribunal, Batic says. She promised to prosecute Albanian terrorists, not including Hashim Thaci. A promise of crazy joy. It is only necessary, he says, that all evidence of crimes against Serbs, not only in Cosmet, be delivered to the tribunal's office as soon as it is opened in Belgrade. The finger of justice -- says Batic, a future Serbian minister -- must arrive all those who committed crimes, both Milosevic, and Thaci, and Ceku. You've laid those three together nicely, Minister, so you'll be replaced today. "Telegraph", February 7, 2001 -- aren't you afraid that a large part of the people who are against The Hague court will stick the label to the traitors? Batic - we've heard enough of these stories, and I've had enough division of patriots and traitors. After all, who should declare us traitors? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Those who voted for you before you announced the delivery to The Hague. And Batic answers: We always said that thieves should go to prisons, lunatics to asylums, and war criminals to The Hague. We're not going to suffer as a people for a few possible war criminals. As a 70-year-old lady like Biljana Plassic had the conscience and courage to go there. There, she showed, nothing is scary, nothing hurts - Vladan Batic is cynical about human fates. How many prison sentences could the highest-ranking officials arrive? Batic answers: I can't say anything in advance, I'd get involved in the court's affairs. Vladan Batic forgets that this principle has also violated Rade Markovic's case, and for many others, when he cut the fines during the investigation. Do you personally think that Milosevic, except, as you said, is a mobster and a war criminal? I can't assess something that needs to be assessed by the court, but if someone's accused, then he should answer. If the procedure finds him not guilty, then he's not guilty. It may be found in The Hague that there is no evidence against him and that he is released, completely normal. If the president hadn't banned some rude words from being used, I would have said what Mr Batic said. It is hard to believe -- a journalist says -- that no one has come free from The Hague yet, and there are currently more than 30 Serbs. Batic: I know, so does Biljana Plavsic, who left and why Milosevic would not follow her example, and besides, I told Mrs Del Ponte that a negative relationship with the tribunal was created here because NATO aviation commanders were not tried for crimes against the civilian population. That this court is not ideal, it's clear to everyone, but why should the whole people suffer for a few people. You announced a recent amendment to the legislation that would allow our citizens to be delivered to The Hague, when will the proceedings be completed? Batić: In two months. There are no two months, four have passed, Mr. Minister, no law. And that's when you're gonna start arresting and delivering to The Hague prosecutors? Batic - we will see, this will be decided by the Federal Assembly. Maybe the law doesn't pass. The fact is that someone's children died while Milosevic's son built discotheques. It all happened because of his ingenuity and stupidity. Well, this is the height of cynicism. He has to pay for it, no matter how high the price is. Unlike you, says the journalist, President Kostunica remains very strongly opposed to handing anyone over to The Hague. This was before Kostunica for who knows which time he changed his attitude. His views are closer to Svilanovic and Djindjic, will the DOS be shared on this issue? We all at DOS are aware that we have to take the mortgage off ourselves, that we are generally war criminals. Finally, it's not about the extradition of the entire people, it's about a few people. No one in their right mind likes The Hague and it's no secret that the DOS differences exist, but I believe we'll end up agreeing. Are you in favour of Milosevic being tried in Serbia? I'm afraid where Milosevic will be tried will not be decided by us, the UN tribunal will decide on that on its own. Then why do we need a state, why do we need a government, Minister, if you blindly accept that our fate has the right to decide someone else. "Blic" since 13 February 2001, a subtitle -- the new law will allow the extradition of the tribunal, according to a statement by Vladan Batic. Zoran Zizic is not authorized to decide who will be extradited to The Hague tribunal, and who won't, Serbian Parliament Speaker Vladan Batic, the republican justice minister, said yesterday. Ah, Batic is like a merodat. He said that Slobodan Milosevic would not be extradited to The Hague tribunal, while he characterised SRJ as undosed. A federal law on co-operation with The Hague tribunal will soon be passed, in which a provision on the extradition of our citizens will be incorporated. The justice minister noted that according to existing laws, there is already the possibility of handing over The Hague, persons located in the SRJ, but is now being retiered by the minister and says -- they are not Yugoslav citizens. Asked whether this applies to Ratko Mladic, former Chief of Staff of the Republika Srpska Army, Batic answered -- it refers to all people who are not our citizens. However, I received information that General Mladic has SRJ citizenship. It itches you, Minister, the sweetest would be to hand over Karadzic and Mladic. Why would they ask if Mladic has citizenship? Vladan Batic is angry at the federal prime minister for once informing him that while the prime minister will not be extradicated, there will be no extradition. It reminds the federal prime minister that he is not authorized as a representative of the executive government to decide who will be extradited to The Hague tribunal. Fight to keep it right to yourself. It announces what will possibly contain future federal law because it knows better than the federal prime minister who is obviously not in charge of Batic. It informs us that it will allow our courts to prosecute war criminals. The courts have so far been unable to prosecute war criminals, and since Vladan Batic announced, we can expect the independent judiciary to start searching. Of course, the problem will be, only on the orders of Minister Batic. "Blic" since 18 February 2001, in an interview with Vladan Batic, entitled - We will judge war criminals - a journalist: you co-operate with Federal Justice Minister Momcilo Grubac to draft a co-operation law with The Hague tribunal, is there a shift in the drafting of the law? Unfortunately, no - says Batic. He continues to say: I am not optimistic because in the federal government not everyone wants to pass a co-operation law with The Hague tribunal. Desires are divided, both in the government and in the Federal Assembly. It only took a few days for Vladan Batic to find with regret that there are problems in the realization of his wishes. To show loyalty to his employers, Batic does not give up. It cannot be reconciled with the fact that every day the senselessness of establishing institutional co-operation with The Hague tribunal is increasingly seen. Therefore, beyond all constitutional and legal powers, it continues. "Blic", on 6 March 2001, Vladan Batic: I expect some of the indictees before the tribunal as Plassic, to go to The Hague alone, realizing that they can no longer hold Serbian citizens hostage. He stressed that a high delegation of representatives of the federal and republican governments will soon be formed, and she will visit the tribunal's president to agree on basic assumptions of co-operation with The Hague. "Blic", 11 March 2001: Shabac -- justice minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia Vladan Batic, announced better co-operation of republican and federal authorities with the tribunal in The Hague yesterday. Batic said five UN tribunal investigators, with whom he spoke yesterday, as well as chief prosecutor Carla del Ponte, had made the impression that they would seriously consider the Yugoslav authorities' request to press charges against Hasim Thaci, Agim Ceku and Ramush Haradini. He suggested that some of the retired citizens of the SRJ would turn themselves in voluntarily and thus remove the anthem, but did not want to make their names known. The international community, whose member we are, is looking for its own, and I don't see why the whole people would suffer for the individual. Some criminals from the previous regime will be tried in our country, not only because of financial affairs, but also because of war crimes, because there are possibilities in the law, Batic said. With reference in the press to individual extradition deadlines, the justice minister stressed that the tribunal is not insisting on extraditions, but on positive steps by 31 March that new laws would allow. For Vladan Batic, the previous regime had war criminals. He determined it, declared it, and condemned it. According to Batić, the courts are unnecessary. That's what we'd do if we had a minister like this. "Blic", on 22 March 2001 -- answers the question whether the Republic government had contact with war crimes indictees, which Batic said earlier that there was a possibility of handing themselves over to the tribunal, the minister of justice said there was no contact but that it was his assumption. Since there is already a possibility that indictees who have already given themselves up may be relieved of the circumstances during the investigation and trial, I believe that the defendants will turn themselves in. The justice ministry also has no record of foreign citizens currently in the SRJ and are charged with war crimes because it is within the scope of police work. If we have to suffer for our citizens, we don't have to do it for other people's -- Batic added. Carla del Ponte announced that Minister Batic said authorities in Belgrade would take steps to banish non-Yugoslav citizens who were indicted by the tribunal. She specified that it means that the defendants will be carried out to the border where they will be taken over by the tribunal. Del Ponte said that there is a chance for better co-operation and messages - I hope something important very quickly and that the process of arresting and handing over indictees begins very quickly. When Karli del Ponte pledged to banish foreign citizens, he fulfilled the promise by arresting Milomir Stakic, a Serb. Vladan Batic did not respect the SRJ Constitution. "News", 7 May 2001: Serbia's Justice Minister Vladan Baticdemanted in a letter yesterday to UN chief prosecutor Carla del Ponte that in his earlier letters, he claimed that the court shared selective justice, noting that he only pointed out that the tribunal did not press charges against any political leader of Croats, Muslims or Albanians. We want to co-operate with The Hague tribunal. We will get the strength to admit that some of our countrymen, on behalf of the Serb people, committed crimes. We do not want the new democratic Serbia to rest on the foundations of foreign blood-infused -- Batic underlined. By acknowledging this sin and going through a kind of moral catharsis, we have the right to be accused and political leaders of others who have committed crimes against Serbs. You yourself mentioned that co-operation should be two-way, according to the end of a letter sent by the minister of justice to Del Ponte. To justify the arrest of Serbs, the minister constantly mentions some members of other people who, to God, are not charged, and there is a promise that they will be indicted. "News", 22 March 2001: The Hague -- Serbia's Justice Minister Vladan Batic, said yesterday at the International War Crimes Tribunal's headquarters in the territory of the former SFRY that Serbian authorities would work to hand over to The Hague-based people who were not SRJ citizens, who were indicted by the tribunal for war crimes. Authorities in Serbia have decided to take measures to hand over indicted non-Yugoslav citizens to the tribunal, as there is no reason for Serbia to become an oasis for war criminals -- Batic stressed. He did not say when Belgrade would begin to extradite the indictees to The Hague court, but added that there are indications that the other indictees will voluntarily surrender to the court, modelled by Blago Simic, former Bosnian Samic mayor. Shortly thereafter, Serbian Milomir Stakic was handed over to The Hague, guilty because he was a Serb, because he had confidence in Serbia, because he lived in Belgrade and attended a parenting meeting with his daughters at a primary school. Hubert Vedrin, Javier Solana, Robin Cook, were not arrested because they came to Belgrade to check the accuracy of the NATO air strike, because only the Serbian court condemned them and because Vladan Batic did not want to seek their arrest. He didn't want to or didn't dare, the devil would know him. Then who in Budapest would be opened to the register. Where's your soul, Minister? Or do you think it is enough to tell the citizens - Christ the Easter, happy Batic, that it is enough to involve some Orthodox priests in politics, so that all sins may be forgiven. Minister Batic's statements should not be interpreted. He's not hiding anything. It's all clear. He admits everything and confirms it. He is impressed by Carla del Ponte and investigators with a diplomatic statement that he will seriously consider something that Karla knows better than Batic. He announces that some of the Yugoslav citizens will soon voluntarily surrender to The Hague tribunal, and the next day on March 12th 2001, that is what Blagoja Simic does. Vladan Batic did not randomly announce Simic's surrender as a prophet. For days, he persuaded, pressured and guaranteed Simic that it was necessary to surrender to open a process that would imply that it was perfectly normal for Yugoslav citizens to be tried in The Hague. When he is not allowed to perform publicly as minister, Vladan Batic is not limbic of other methods. Praise Simic's act of surrenders and says it's patriotic. From The Hague, he brings fictional and sinister messages, under the name of all the arrested Serbs, that all those who are not arrested should surrender themselves and shut down their lives. That is how he puts pressure on other citizens, saying that the patriot is anyone who surrenders to The Hague tribunal, regardless of whether it is on the tribunal's public or secret indictment, which is based on an anatising of the Serb people. Yesterday, by listing a 1994 stenogram, I found that Socialists were accusing Batic of being a war criminal because he was talking about broken churches in Kosovo and Metohija and that mosques should be brought into such order. He was then a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia. Is there a regulation that empowers Batić, threatens, convinces and exposes the pressure of our citizens? Is there a constitutional and legal limit for Batic to which he can extend his revolutionary powers? How can Batić's actions and desires be hampered, restricted and placed within the frameworks that the Constitution and laws prescribe? By example, he is dangerous in the environment and legal order, and as such we must isolate him. Because a precedent like this during DOS can become a rule. Imagine what would happen in the country if all DOS ministers followed the example of Minister Batic. Parliamentary democracy would move every day into an ever-increasing revolutionary dictatorship of DOS oligarchy. Recently, the public was shocked by the skill that General Dragoljub Ojdanic had avoided kidnapping in Pančev. It is reportedly unknown who organised and attempted the kidnapping of a general on the UN tribunal's list of indictees. Citizens are intimidated by the fact that there are hunters on our citizens. We were able to find out about the bounty hunters about the chaos in the Wild West, from pioneering times, the time of conquest of space in America. We think of them as cowboys from Western movies, who bring in and kill blackmailed faces for money. They are allowed to exorcise justice and justice by applying force without any responsibility. They're allowed to kill without responding. Unfortunately, these people are walking our streets today. The public has so far not been familiar with the harsh fact that Minister Vladan Batic is an organiser, a financier and a top-ranking gang of criminals tasked with catching Yugoslav citizens and handing over to The Hague tribunal. When he cannot under the law or allegedly voluntarily, Minister Vladan Batic activates his own organised gangs of criminals. He's paid to do the dirtiest job and he can't stop it, because he's probably also blackmailed if he doesn't do the job he's already paid for. Of course, Batic will deny this. And would that be the first time Batic has denied something everyone sees. Let's remind ourselves, for him the burning of the Federal Assembly building was two curtains set on fire. Anyone who tells him that it's burned up a lot more can count immediately on having a lifelong enemy in the minister of justice and local self-government. After all, Batic has his own personal apparatus of physical coercion, so let him who objectes to the minister think. Justice and Local Self-Government Minister Vladan Batic has formed a special gang of criminals tasked with making 5m-dollar cash blackmails, issued by Americans, the kidnapping of Slobodan Milosevic, Ratko Mladic, Radovan Karadzic, Dragoljub Ojdanic, and other indictees indicted by The Hague tribunal. In the gang are Milan Narandzic-Limun, one of the leading members of the so-called Surcin mobster Petar Panic, a former member of the SRS, who we kicked out when he engaged in criminal activities, and there are also some suspects in the assassination of Vuk Draskovic in Budva. Interestingly, in the gang and Ljubomir Jovanovic-Staklin, who shot the above mentioned Peter Panic in early 2000 and fled abroad. He returned to Serbia after an October coup, reported to the court and formally released to defend himself from freedom, leaving the criminal case to rest and fall into oblivion. All these facts were learned from a member of the SRS, whom Minister Vladan Batic tried to recruit to join the gang. Vladan Batic does not respect the National Assembly, MPs, political insinuators and the independence of the legislative authority. The list "Polymlje", from Prepolje, 11 May 2001 -- "In four eyes with Vladan Batic, minister of justice" -- "Anyone who says that Milosevic is in prison for some kind of political retribution, this disgusting lie, he is in CZ because of the unprecedented crime that has just begun to be exposed, there will be many more places there. They're the ones who want to visit Milosevic all the time, so we'll give them that chance. They can hold the tides, the meetings, the congresses, whatever they want, but in CZ." As far as I know, MP Branislav Ivkovic often asks to visit former SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic in prison. This threat probably refers to him, that he'll be able to participate there. Journalist: "Very negatively echoed the statement of MPs and Radical Janjic, sent to MP Omerovic, you know what I mean. How do you view this kind of behavior of radicals in parliament, all those yellow tapes, observations, obstructions and remarks of the type "DOS is the worst", and so on? "Batic: "Seselj is a false duke, a false monarch, a false radical, and in the end, a false Serb. He works very well for the national matter of the Croats. I'm just surprised by his followers. It's a shame and a shame what they've turned parliament into. Either he'll behave, or... "What Minister, what "or", what "three points"? What are you planning, as minister of justice, to honor the MPs of the SRS and not do it immediately? "News", 21 May 2001: "We must change the assembly's rules of procedure" -- says Batic, minister of justice and local self-government, to change the assembly's Rules of Procedure -- "because Serbia has become a hostage of verbal terror from assembly speakers. The judiciary has become a hostage to anachronic provisions concerning parliamentary immunity, which cannot be a front for those who have committed crimes. They will be deprived of parliamentary immunity and will go to prison like white tulips, as our people say. He's got a Central Prison to work as a jeweler. He's just laughing at you, Minister, I'd be ashamed to say this, "until all those who have committed crimes are brought to justice." Who are you, Minister, to change the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an act that governs relations between those who control you and the entire government? "Blic", May 15th 2001: Commenting on the work of the Serbian Parliament, Vladan Batic announced the possibility that daily obstructions of parliament could put an end to daily TV. "We will consider the possibility of transferring only important sessions of the Republic Assembly, which decide on state and national issues, and the other sessions are being organised by the assembly chronicles," Batic said. Vladan Batic forgets what he said about ending TV transmissions while he was in opposition. On what basis does the executive power threaten the legislative authority, ministers and gentlemen MPs? Batic is an immoral man, a false believer and a patriarchal Serb, who sets for himself entirely other moral principles, much more liberal than those he requires of his political rivals. "Polymlje", 11 May 2001: "Mr Batic, the question opens - is it for our judiciary to properly carry out a complex and difficult process of preparing charges, not only for Milosevic, but for other officials of the former regime? "Batic: "By the end of May, we will end major staff changes in the judiciary, we will set up new presidents of municipal, district and public courts and district and public prosecutors, and there is potential. I hired such a group in my office of the Justice Department. Young, beautiful, speaking languages, following the Internet." What it looks like in reality, reveals the "Exclusive" list, May 16, 2001, in the article "The Change of Vladan Batic". I quote: "The petoctobar revolution fundamentally changed life in Serbia. While ordinary Serbs are convinced daily that democracy is a expensive toy, some other Serbs, less ordinary, even though they were tiny patterns by yesterday, today important parts of DOS's state apparatus are important parts. Vladan Batic made it from the province's lawyer from Obrenovac to the ministerial chair. October's changes took an extremely radical view. He left his family, wife and two children in Obrenovac and now lives in a rented apartment in Belgrade, with his official." Probably because of the Internet, Mr. Minister, but I expect a new letter from Zoran Djindjic, addressed to the National Assembly, with a request to resolve Vladan Batic, because the government wants to carry out its tasks uninterrupted and without scandals or affairs. "Polymlje", 11 May 2001, titled "Hag, Cruel Reality" - "What is your relationship with the extradition of Milosevic to The Hague? "Batic: "We won't wait long for this law, and what I do is his responsibility to domestic courts, for the crimes committed here, according to our laws. It is the priority of the Republic's justice minister and of all the republican judicial authorities." Why so faceless, Minister? What is true, when you were in "Blica", on 18 April 2001, to the question -- how much, as a minister of justice, you were involved in the process of bringing Milosevic in and whether you now directly or indirectly have some contact with him, answered - about the arrest of Milosevic I learned from the media and was not directly involved in everything that was happening. I don't interfere with other cases either, and if you want to trust me (and we won't trust you), I don't know who the judges are who run the proceedings against other officials. And is it true that it's your most important task, or is it true that you don't interfere at all and you don't know who does it? "It is believed that DOS ranks are in the nightmare, because the new government did not hope that by seeking to expose Milosevic as a criminal, they would actually dig up a war criminal, as well as because of Milosevic's alleged promise that he would not be extradited to The Hague (the journalist says). How much truth is there in that? "Batic: "As for the extradition of The Hague, there are only principle differences. Mr Kostunica did not promise Milosevic that he would not be extradited to The Hague. Many, however, believe the law on co-operation with The Hague is not necessary. DOS always, when things get serious, is once again homogeneous and compact and always makes a consensus on all the important issues, regardless of the differences that exist between us. "I think it washes real homogeneity. "And it is good that there are differences, who is, after all, an alternative to DOS today. JUL no longer exists, Serbian radicals are shutting down and disappearing, and as they are, they shouldn't even exist. "Is that the minister pleading for a ban on the SRS, when the idea of a fictitious congress, which would have chosen Batic's leadership for Serbian radicals, failed in public? As Vladan Batic cares about local self-government -- "The government of Serbia will introduce a forced administration in all municipalities, where local authorities do not work," he told Blic on February 26th 2001, Vladan Batic, minister of justice in the Serbian government. He stressed that the introduction of a forced administration would go where municipalities have not yet been established or where there is strong evidence that the government cannot function. "The forced administration has already been introduced into the municipality of Bosilegrad, and this will soon be done in Batocina," Batic announced. To the question -- how will the government react to the violent takeover of local authorities and threats to the committees of the left, which has been happening in Raška and Dimitrovgrad in recent days, Batic replied: "We will not allow violence and something that has nothing to do with the conduct of local authorities to impair anarchy. The government will prevent someone from taking power because of political ambitions and there is no real standoffs, that is, cannot be taken over by force, if it works successfully and there is no solid evidence that laws are being violated." The minister of justice did not want to talk about individual cases of pressure on the committees of the left and incursions of citizens to the assembly meetings of municipalities, noting that this has not yet been discussed in the government. He added that all problems will be resolved, depending on the case. "Blic", 31 March 2001: "Vladan Batic said that yesterday the Serbian government educated a municipal council in the municipalities of Zubin Potok and Zvecana, located in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, saying that the composition of these councils was in line with UNMIK." That's funny and sad, Minister. "Blic" since 19 March 2001, under the heading "Repeated local elections no later than 90 days", quoted Vladan Batic as saying: "The crisis headquarters has been formed in Leban, which requires the removal of the Yugoslav Left Authority, which has 29, out of 31 council members. The crisis headquarters broke into the municipality's assembly building a few days ago and asked for the shift of municipal leaders." The supporters of the local authorities then beat up DOS supporters. They responded by blocking the main road road Leskovac - Medvedja and are asking for the arrest of municipality president Gojko Marjanovic and police chief Srdjan Mitic. Minister Batic pointed out yesterday in Valjev that the government did not give the green light to form a crisis headquarters in Lebanon and does not support the violent takeover of power. He also said that criminal charges have been filed against the JUL beatings. Dude has no intention of hiding anything. He publicly acknowledges that he is involved in the formation of DOS crisis headquarters, which are tasked with removing or removing legally elected power under the "bullocer" methodology. The difference is that in some places crisis headquarters, according to Minister Batic, "have received the green light", and in some places are waiting for Minister Batic's command. So if there is another municipality in which DOS is not in power, we can expect Batic's green light and it's over with legitimacy and legality. Of course, there is a forced administration, which Batic will propose, and the government must comply. She knows who she's in charge of and who she's in charge of. Who defends the election will of citizens at the local level and throws Batic's thugs out of the premises will get a criminal report, and those who rushed before Batic's green light are damaged, which Batic through his independent judiciary will protect. With legally elected and legitimate representatives of the people in the municipalities of Bosilegrad, Ub, Batocina, Kladovo, Irig and several other municipalities, Minister Batic finished the job. DOS crisis headquarters have created riots, blockades of local self-government and terrors. Minister Vladan Batic comes immediately afterwards with his prepared proposal for the introduction of a forced administration. Batic's revolutionary and violent scenario comes into effect immediately. It is not bound by the national will and the results of the local elections. It is presented as the savior of the organization of state affairs, which must be intervened for the sake of the people. That's Batic. There are no regulations that respect. He's only in charge of achieving the goals set and trying to be effective, to prove his ability and loyalty. According to Batic's announcement, local self-government in Likovac is the next municipality to show its effectiveness. The DOS crisis headquarters in this place has, according to Batic, "green light", the light of the DOS government or Batic, is irrelevant. In the working dispute of Prof. Vojislav Seselj against the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, in order to annul the decision v.d. The dean on ending the working relationship, Minister Vladan Batic had to get involved because he believes the full judiciary is his property. Along with Minister of Education and Sports Gaš Knezevic, he decided in one day who in the Supreme Court of Serbia will judge and decide on the administrative dispute suit. They have educated particularly large for this administrative dispute in the composition: Milena Savatic and Olga Đuric, as judges, who are publicly declared members of DOS, as well as Aleksandar Doncic, as president of the Council, who is a man who is afraid and afraid of his shadow, whom everyone can scare and convince. This was also decided on the day of formation by Batic and Knezevic, as it was obvious that the work dispute would be settled in favour of Prof. Vojislav Seselj. Since there was no legal reason to reject the case of Prof. Vojislav Seselj, and the verdict must contain at least some explanation, they realized that they quoted in the explanation the solution of Minister Gaša Knezevic. In this way, the larger admits that there are no reasons why the lawsuit is rejected, and quoting the solution by Gaša Knezevic is evidence of the state's presupply, influence and subjugation against the current DOS executive authority. Batic, Knezevic and their larger administrative disputes are aware that all their decisions are illegal, and because of the hatred of political insinuators, they do not see that they have disputed and annulled the decision to elect teachers to join and work, which is the previous act of a complex administrative act, a solution 02-No. 42/10 of 11 February 2000. On the direct order of Vladan Batic, President of Belgrade's First Municipal Court, Vojkan Simic, who is now a member of DOS, has been known for years as a very bribery judge, after a hearing and a closed public hearing, on 14 March 2001, took the complete record of the working dispute of Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj and retained him for days, preventing the verdict from being made, as it was clear to Vladna Batic and Gashi Knezevic that all the arguments available in this dispute were on Shessel's side. A man like this, who gets stolen from a car by a sock cut just for his eyes and nose and hekler, a weapon forbidden to carry, does not deserve to continue to serve as justice minister and local self-government. The reasons we cited, the protection of the principles of the division of power, honor and responsibility in the exercise of public functions, forced us to submit a motion for a vote of no confidence to the Minister of Justice and local self-government Vladna Batic. If you vote by conscience and personal belief, it will be resolved, and if you vote as they command you, behold, you have not earned better. It is important for us to prove to Serbian citizens that we Serbian radicals have nothing to do with him and his actions, except that we are the object of his immense hatred and persecution. When his son went into the world, his father told him to guard the wicked, the wicked, the wicked. The son asked him how I would know them, and the father told him, "God has marked them." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7634	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just want to tell you that it has been planned for those MPs who want to escort the lithium that is moving through Belgrade, that's what we're going to do. However, there has been a change in their program, and I have just received notice that we are too late for that. They were due to pass at 11:30, we would have the opportunity to escort lithium, and this is the only way we have left to congratulate all of Belgrade's citizens and the Belgrade City Assembly here together. According to the Rules of Procedure, justice and local self-government have the right to respond, Mr Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7635	I'd like to speak after the president of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7636	The debate can go on. They can answer the words of the president of the parliamentary groups, and then the MPs. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has a minister of justice and local self-government Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been said to be a man who hates. I really hate everything and I hate lies the most. He wrote to the bishop Nikolaj Velimirovic in his book "O God and People" one sentence saying, "When you tell lies at the expense of another man, that man knows you lied -- and you know you've told lies at the expense of that other man -- and God knows you've told lies at the expense of another man." So there are three witnesses to every lie spoken. Since I am a believer and is saved today, in connection with this item of the agenda and this whole tirad we have heard, I say, God help him who said this to me, or God help him who lies and his children. Because listening to each other doesn't really make any sense. The fact that my family is mentioned, that the Radicals of Obrenovac are printing "Death Batić" passwords, that you gave some pamphlets, because you haven't read the whole text, the most prominent people from a political scene in some "yellow press" are being discredited in the most ground floor way, and that's an argument for you. Of course, it's an argument to someone who's been working on an analysis of the work of the minister of justice, a man who spent his entire life with honor and integrity, who at the age of 30, even though he was never a member of the Union of Communists, was a doctor of science, and a pamphlet reads about him by someone who failed any exams at the Faculty of Law and who had previously been the secretary of a party organisation in "22 December". So, as for October's events and October's demolition demonstrations, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, I'm proud to be at the pay phone on October 5th when what happened happened. That's what millions of Serbian citizens wanted. With joy I remember that day and thank God, no one died that day, the price could have been terrible, the price of historical theft. Two people died in an accident. One man had a heart attack and another man was killed in a car accident but no one was killed as a result of an attack by demonstrators and anything. So, it's even mentioned, I suppose, to the detriment of me, something that every man can serve for pride and honor, an event when I succeeded from a single mass that was uncontrollable to get out of the city committee of the Socialist Party of Serbia building in the Student Square, twenty police officers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7638	Please do not throw away, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have agreed to work in full order today. We've had that kind of order so far, and I'm asking you to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7639	I was asked why the father of Vasilija in the rooms of DHSS - so naturally, because DHSS took part in its rooms to the diocese of Rasko-Prizren, which records Kosovo and Metohija exiles, former regimes and NATO alliances. Therefore, it is a high moral act. People were grateful for that. I can't see, and that was supposed to be commendation, not criticism. Let's start with something that was the main part of the exposé, of some patriotism, or betrayal, of The Hague, of the NATO Alliance, etc. Open letter to Richard Holbrooke: Dear Mr Holbrooke, on November 19, 1998, I attended your lecture at the Washington Institute of Peace. The theme, of course, was Kosovo. On that occasion, you said that Milosevic had capitulated, that he had annulled the referendum, that the international community could do whatever it wanted in Kosovo, that you could literally force him to do anything. He accepted everything unilaterally. He made big concessions. You mentioned how you bluffed him in Dayton, you said you were directly negotiating with the KLA, not interested in the Security Council. You've invited those present to inform you if they know Albanian national police officers to be directed to Cosmet. You compared Rug to Gandhi and Martin Luther King. You didn't know the answer to the question why the United States doesn't deal with Kashmir, not Cosmet. Why don't you respect the rights of the Kurds and not the rights of the Shipar? You were uncomfortable when I introduced myself. I thought I might be an unpleasant witness. Em Serb, em opposition. The deputy Yugoslav dispatcher was also present, but he did not respond to your story. Not to read the whole letter. NATO's intervention, the DHSS whose president I was, every day during NATO bombing, did what its powers were. Every day and the first day before the bombing on March 23rd, we said the DHSS believes that the first NATO pact bomb began to bring down the European system of values, European civilizations, basic Christian fluids. Javier Solana, Wesley Clark and others have abolished the primary ethical values of European society and conscience as the highest moral category. The Orthodox Serbian people, as one of the oldest in Europe, are among the founders of the European civilization, which has been witnessed by numerous historical monuments in Kosovo, etc. On March 25th, we find that the UN order has been annulled, and on March 30th, we are seeking to call a peace conference for the Balkans, under the password of the Balkan-Balkan peoples. Meanwhile, I file criminal charges against Louise Arbur, then chief UN tribunal prosecutor for NATO intervention, asking him to accuse NATO leaders. For your information, I file a criminal report and here, to the district attorney on 11.4.1999, registered under the number Ktr. 764/99, and just after that tragic incident with the train to Vlad's Han and the monster crime that those responsible for it are responding. You can find it in the Belgrade District Public Prosecutor's Office's records under this number of criminal charges by Vladan Batic. Furthermore, we are addressing the UN and Kofi Annan, asking Knut Volebek, the then secretary general of the OSCE to influence the suspension of the fact. We address the democratic parties of Europe, I address the Secretary-General of UNESCO, about everything that happens with the fluids that are meant to protect UNESCO in local areas. I address the democratic parties of the Danube countries, Bavaria, Austria, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria and Ukraine, so I propose that a Belgrade tribunal be formed for what is happening in Serbia's territory as a consequence of NATO intervention. Then, I address Lehu Valensi, president of the Democratic Party of Poland with a request that as winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, along with other Nobel Peace Prize winners, respond. Lech Valensa, in Rome, gathers other Nobel Peace Prize winners and calls for NATO intervention to be suspended by a joint statement. There's a lot of it, NATO will make Bopal, etc., etc. So we asked every divine day to stop something that we thought was inappropriate and that we thought was an attack on a single country. Romano Prodi has even accepted our initiative on the Balkan peace conference. The idea was also supported by then German Foreign Minister Joska Fisher. I was speaking, and I can't find just that letter, the parents of children who were killed in that monster crime in Colorado, and I reminded them of the deaths of innocent children here in Serbia from bombs arriving from Colorado. Here's the letter, I'll be free to read just a few sentences "DHSS calls on parents of children killed in a mindless crime at a school in Colorado to turn to Bill Clinton, the State Department and the Pentagon to stop the bombing of Serbia. The entire United States is shaken by this tragic event that has taken 15 lives, forgetting that innocent children throughout Serbia are killed by American bombs every day. Gina just because they live in Serbia, they die, and they loved Walt Disney cartoons, and burgers, and gum, and Whitney Houston, and Vander Holyfield, and Michael Jordan, and Formula One and the Internet. They liked to go to school, play, live. All that was taken away by American bombs. DHSS fully understands the grief of parents, relatives and friends of children suffered in a terrible crime in Colorado. However pointless, their deaths can mean life for hundreds of children in Serbia, if those who loved them raise their voice against Serbia's further bombing. It's the only way I can repay myself to my tragically injured children." So, I don't have to talk about patriotism anymore. Everything turned completely. Those who have been drilling into patriotic breasts have become the greatest traitors, and those who have been accused as traitors (and today while we are discussing this, we are entering the last 350 square miles of zone B) return sovereignty to the country that you have lost as a previous government. So that's the story of patriotism. It's about The Hague. Yes, gentlemen, The Hague is a cruel reality, The Hague is a brutal reality, The Hague is something that no one in their right mind can love. He who loves The Hague should be in his house. We can't be intimate with the whole world. I'm standing here open and free now and I say, gentlemen, we must admit that some of our countrymen have committed crimes on our behalf. It's hard to admit. When you find a freezer in the Danube near Tekia, when it's found, at least that's what it says in the paper, another freezer in the lake at Koki's boat, then we have to go through that moral catharsis and we have to take that anthem and take that mortgage off ourselves. It was never done by the Serbian people and no one on his behalf has the right to do so. So, as far as Carla del Ponte is concerned, "Dear Mrs. Del Ponte, I have received your answer to my previous letters, in which you express disappointment that I have allegedly claimed that the international criminal court shares selective justice, that investigations have been launched and crimes against Serbs, that the charges cannot be filed by public pressure without evidence, that they are not raised for political purposes, which I allegedly suggest is counterproductive and that any politicization is counterproductive. Your Honor, Madam Chief Prosecutor, I'm sorry you didn't understand the meaning of my earlier letters. I made only claims, which you did not dispute in your answer. Only the Serb political leaders, four presidents -- Milosevic, Milutinovic, Karadzic and Plasic and others, Krajisnik, Sainovic, have been indicted by the prosecution so far, but no political leader of Croats, Muslims or Albanians. Therefore, public opinion is normally given to the selective justice of the UN tribunal. In The Hague, you told us that Franjo Tudjman would have been charged if he hadn't died. Why don't you release that indictment, such as the posthumously declared indictment against Zeljko Raznatovica-Arkana. You're saying that in order to determine command responsibility, they need evidence. Is sufficient evidence of hundreds of thousands of Serbs exiled from Croatia, hundreds of killed in "Blash" and "Storm", Europe's largest exodus in the 20th century, death of the loved ones, lost property, home, country, desire and hope. Is there sufficient evidence of a photograph of mujahedin in the Muslim army holding the severed heads of Serbian young men in their hands? That picture went around the world. Is sufficient evidence of Serbs being exiled from Cosmeta, outside their homes, in which to celebrate Djurdjevdan today, one of the greatest Orthodox holidays? "It's written on Djurjevdan. "In Kosovo, there are no bells in hundreds of Serbian churches this morning, because they are almost all broken down. Agim Ceku killed Serbs in the war in Croatia, and is now the KLA military commander, a terrorist organisation formed by its current political leader Hashim Thaci. The evidence for his crimes is countless, but you haven't charged them yet. There's no politicizing, there's no pressure on public opinion, it's just cruel truth, niyl possumus contra veritati, there's nothing we can do against the truth, neither you nor I. You say you're disappointed. How do you think I felt three days ago when I met with the families of 1,300 Serbs kidnapped by the KLA, with silent eyes no more tears, with silent leclerc and sobbings that paralyze the soul, with the last ray of hope. How can I answer them where their children, their fathers, their brothers? How do you explain to them why the defendants of the KLA who did this, who continue to kill and kidnap? For days, they have been plowing through Belgrade looking for truth and justice. We want to co-operate with The Hague tribunal, we will find the strength to admit that some of our countrymen have committed crimes on behalf of the Serb people. We do not want the new democratic Serbia to rest on the basis of the blood of others. By confessing that sin and going through a kind of moral catharsis, we have the right to demand that they be accused and political leaders of others who have committed crimes against Serbs. You mentioned yourself that co-operation should be two-way. It's time to go the other way." So it's a letter sent to Carly del Ponte and I assure you that very quickly there will be the accused leaders of the KLA, all those mentioned in these and other letters, because there is no defense against it. Our witnesses leave, our pathologists leave from June 3rd to June 10th to testify about the crimes in Gloden, Klejka, Voljuk, so the circle closes. The investigation against all three has already begun. So, you just have to be realistic and you have to look at the whole thing and realize that for a while, it's for us to realize that it doesn't take millions of people to continue to be hostages of that time, but to look into the future, to want to live like all the normal world, in their homes, on their own country, with their children. I didn't leave my family. I go to the Obrenovac every day, so it's gossip, intrigue. Unfortunately, ugly and sad, sad to see you do it, but I said - if that's true, so help you God. Furthermore, the famous Galenika, Zastava, now Majdanpek, Palma, hackers, socks, automatic rifles, etc. is mentioned. Again, unfortunately, a bunch of lies. I've never held a hekler in my hand, I don't even know what he looks like. I was a power of attorney when I was a lawyer, ICN Pharmaceuticals, and I'm not hiding behind it at all, and there's no reason to hide. So I was a lawyer, a professional for 17 years. I was born of course in Obrenovac, in a family whose parents, the late father and mother, or their family, were victims of political persecution. He graduated high school, graduated law school, postgraduate studies, master's degree, doctorate. I worked in the congregation of the municipality, I was morally politically inappropriate, because I was not a member of the party and I was a doctor of science and reference. I built the house with two large loans for residential construction, long-term, as it was allowed then and how it was possible then. One raised by the late father, the other by me, the wife, the mother cooked lunch for the workers, my comrades came in at four o'clock in the morning to dig up the foundations, to pour out records, and I'm not ashamed of it, so everyone should do it. When I had a third child, I got an apartment, one bedroom, 40 square feet in Obrenovac and lived with my wife and three children in a one-bedroom apartment, in an apartment block in Obrenovac. When it was 10 years of my work in Obrenovac Municipality and when I obtained the condition to keep that apartment, Vladan Batić returned the apartment, returned the apartment of 40 square meters, went to his house, where I live with my family today. They know it very well, my Obrenovci I drink coffee with, play football, hang out with, and they know it's all cheap fraud and lies. As for everything you put on someone's burden, well, you need to deliver evidence. Is there one single witness for the alleged incursion of helicopters in Galenic? Give his name and last name, not some falsified documents. One single witness. I'll tell you about this event very gladly and very easily, but let me tell you about prehistory. The agreement between ICN Pharmaceuticals and Galenika was concluded in 1989. Under the contract, the US partner had 75% of the capital, i.e. the share in the company, and the Galenika or the Republic of Serbia, 25%, and that took 10 years. Then someone figured out, Clan Bojic, Seselj that through his people, who were at the capital rating agency, 4 February 1999 and his people at the Ministry of Health, his people in the Chamber of Commerce in the image of Milena Arežina, simply say the dots don't apply, now 65% to 35% to the state, i.e. for Serbia, the health fund, the Galenika, is not important, for us, and 35% to the ICN. It was a classic kidnapping. OK, I have no reason to protect Milan Panic and has no right to protect him, the interest of the state must be a priority. I don't understand this story at all, nor do I know that these temporary measures have been initiated, nor have I been in any legal relationship for a long time, for almost a year and a half, two days, nor have I done it. The government has found that Serbia is the majority owner of Galenika, but since it is a mixed company and since the proceedings are pending in Paris, some experts must assess the size of its stake and will be so. Or a chamber in Paris, which also has to hire a professional, or if two partners agree to find an expert, an agency capable of analyzing it, reporters, and it's quite simple. There's no mystery there, and how the courts rule, as the witches determine, that's how it's going to be. By the way, that day I was with my intern and Mrs Krstajic, who may be a witness, if he wants to say so, I made a decision by the Management Board, or the ICN Shareholders' Assembly. I was invited by a woman to drink coffee and what black heclares, when I went out came Mitevic, Rakic and the people who continued to talk to her. No word on any weapon. As far as the flag is concerned, that's ridiculous. Those of you who have been collapsed from the flag, in agony, taking money from a donation, you mention the invasion of the flag. Ask the presidents of all the trade unions at the flag, they asked that Miki Savicevic, the man who was the biggest manager in these areas, try to help something out of that agony. I don't know about Majdanpek at all, and I don't know that the man you're talking about is the president of the DHSS Municipal Committee, but I also know that Bor is in agony. Why did you let the flag, Bor, Majdanpek, come into such a catastrophic state as they are now. I really don't know anything about Palma TV. I know that recently the people of our party were guests of Palm TV. I don't know who's editing the program, or who changed the software concept, or if someone banned the shows, and why they banned it, there's no need. Yeah, you know what, the story of creating some kind of criminal gang of bandits, human-head hunters who were planning the failed kidnapping of Ojdanic, which, by the way, because of the money that America promised to kidnap people, is the biggest nonsense I've ever heard. I don't understand why these people are being potent and apostropheed as criminals, I've never heard or seen or heard a word from anyone in my life, nor did I speak to Peter Panic, or Milan Narandzic, or Milan Jovanovic, these are the people you refer to as Limun, Svilenni, and I don't know what they look like. So, my eyes have never seen them in my life, I've never spoken to them, and if that's not true, Mr. Nikolic, so much has God helped me, and if true, so much has helped you and your children.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7640	Are you answering? I didn't hear anything offensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7641	Maybe talking about me and my kids isn't the basis for a replica. I, Mr. Batic, am not the man you can scare, and in particular you can't scare me to God and I've never ascended to say that I am stronger than God, nor have I said that I am a greater or weaker believer than you. Who is a believer speaks of the soul and is not enough to have one eparchy under your control, so that you may now be a great believer. You keep that eparchy under your control, politically, and I don't care. Here's the basic question you're avoiding, and I didn't apply for you to be removed because of what you did while you were in the opposition. I don't care about those letters you wrote while you were in the opposition, although I cited them here as the basis and as proof of how much one man has changed since he came to power. If you write a criminal report against certain NATO persons, and the state of Serbia condemns them to prison sentences, and you become a minister of justice, they come here, and you shake hands with them, then don't tell me what you wrote as someone who was in opposition. I ask you what you have done as minister of justice that they may be brought to justice. So your human desire was to have them convicted. The state did it, and whether you or anyone else, it doesn't matter at all. Now, when they're convicted, your groundwork ends with them. Now they're no longer criminals to you, now they've no longer killed our children, now you're not writing them any more letters. Now say goodbye and kiss them. That's what I'm pointing at and why I'd like you to be replaced. You mention the sovereignty of the land zone B) security and I must now mention my sons. They called me last night and said, "I have something to say today." Don't take those pictures with those frat and unity uniforms, us and Shipara, there's a last name Nikolic who doesn't belong there. My sons won't let Malichi write in front of them and Shachiri behind them. I recommend this team composition: Kostunica, Rugova, Covic, Batić, Djindjic, Ceku, Haradin, Trajkovic, whatever you want, male or female, Artemia, Leshi and Thaci. So write those uniforms and broadcast in front of every "Dnevnik" and after every "Dnevnik", and say, and speak both in the Shiptar and in Serbian. I won't give up Nikolic's last name, because it's Nikolic. The reserve could be someone else who agrees with what you're doing. One more thing, Mr. Batic, I have no interest in which Shiptar will be convicted of war crimes. I don't care that you write here it will be. I'm interested in why you're persecuting the Serbs, not attacking or defending the Shipars. They already have KFOR, and they will have their own state and let their country pass the law. You have made it possible for them, and the constitutions and the laws, to decide whether they will be extradited or not. I am interested in Serbs who have found refuge in Serbia, whether they are Serbian citizens or not, but they are there. Those who had until you came to power, complete security... (President: Time. Now they feel like persecuted animals. There's something else I'd like to ask you, Mr. President, I think you went out on purpose when Mr. Secretary spoke. He only had the right to speak for 20 minutes, and I don't point to that, I allow and let Mr. Secretary speak as much as he wants today, but it wasn't right. At least it could have been said, Mr. Minister, you've got 20 minutes to go. We don't insist on it, and we'd like this debate to take place today, we won't interrupt anyone, we won't stop anyone from talking, but we'd like some rules to exist. It says twice, except you don't know that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7642	He knows the president, that's why he wouldn't come out, God forbid, and he'd be coldly warning you and Mr. Secretary. The point is that in this part of the Rules of Procedure, it is very imprecise. When we changed the original Rules of Procedure, we didn't see that inaccuracy and we didn't change it, and when you wrote it, it was probably not meant to be such debates in the Water Assembly, so that part of the discussion of the Government's trust is very imprecise and writes only that at the beginning of the session it has the right to propose to explain the proposal and the Minister, or the Government's representative, to respond. Everything else is being applied, so it would be logical that at the same time it be given to whoever answers, as well as to those who justify their accusations. Mr. Ivkovic answered, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7643	I asked the president to let me have a comment on the Rules of Procedure before he turned on my microphone. In 1994, as far as I know, the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which this assembly majority, DOS, voted in, have, however, reduced the rights of MPs. From what we hear, he's trying to reduce himself even more. It's just so much for comment. After all, you've turned on my microphone now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7644	I've got to. I've canceled it. You'd lose your speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7645	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, just when I wanted to agree with you, that we should not divide our people into traitors and patriots, you did that division in the end. It is precisely because of zone B which has been deliberately served as a trap for the old American administration, which the government of the Republic of Serbia, is transitional and present, has flown out of all strength and precisely because of Kosovo and Metohija, this country is also needed. I appeal to it, and to you, and to everyone here not to be divided into traitors and patriots, on either side. If there were any mistakes in the election campaign, that mistake has been made by the party I represent, and here is the public and I admit it. About zone B, just one correction. Zone B was in full sovereignty between SRJ and Serbia. The B-KFOR zone couldn't get in. In Zone B, it was only our militia, but because of the citizens of Serbia to know -- this same KFOR, making a trap for this people, this transitional government and the current government, has missed 1,500 terrorists, not extremists. It is a misery to read the word extremists today in the paper and listen to Serbian officials speak - extremists, and it is about the murderers of our soldiers and our militias, about terrorists. Our militia was only allowed to be there. The second thing is that KFOR missed terrorists to create the problem, and the misery is that we celebrate the return of our army when it is known to be commanded by KFOR and that NATO controls the whole situation. Dear Minister Batic, you are as minister of justice and local self-government because of a function you are doing a mirror of justice and justice of the DOS regime. Not as a man, but because of the function you're doing. Your government colleagues worked and worked against you. Your government colleagues have done a lot to the public about justice and justice and how to think, and you have to bear that responsibility because of your function. Your government colleagues at the Benign Positions, Minister of Education - Arrests, Minister of Construction goes to Kragujevac and instead of talking about the Kragujevac bypass, he arrests in front of two hundred citizens. The Deputy Prime Minister is arrested, and even the Prime Minister allows himself to say -- he has indications that Milosevic is guilty of individual murders. Is there an independent judiciary and a judicial system? In that country where you're the minister of justice and local self-government. In fact, because of its impotence, due to the fact that in April 2001 production was 10% lower than during a disgusting regime that did not know it was working in April 2000. As a result, and due to future political clashes, which appear to be inevitable, there is a legalisation of the extermination of political inexperiences who are perceived as political opponents. In every state, legislative and executive as well as judicial authority are normality. In this country there is only party power. That part of the party government and you, as minister of justice and local self-government, belong to you. As a result, that authority exercised a forced administration over the judiciary. Why? Because the processes that are being launched explain, judge, in the media under the full control of this government and are essentially part of the political terror that is being carried out against political insinuators, who unfortunately feel like political enemies to be removed, under various excuses, as soon as possible, from a political scene. The employees of the judiciary and the prosecution are essentially in the worst situation, and there is your responsibility as minister of justice and local self-government. You see, employees in the judiciary, the D.A. can work here or be lawyers. In some cases, other situations are very rarely possible, or impossible. But lawyers can't work because the Bar Association has decided that for four years whoever was in the judiciary, the prosecution can't be a lawyer, it forbids former judges and prosecutors to do so. The proposal for a new legislative project even says that those who worked in the judiciary, the judiciary in the former regime, be careful what they do, can't do for four years. What do they think the prosecutor is doing his job, how the judge is doing his job, when he listens to the president of the Serbian Supreme Court, the president of the Serbian District Court, who is now visiting the courts in Belgrade and saying that the current judiciary organisation will be abolished and a cassation court, appeals court and all others (although I am a construction engineer), and in this story, apparently, a certain reconstruction will be imposed. So there are even about 1,000 judges, prosecutors less in this country, of course those who worked in the previous regime. About independence in such a situation that we don't even talk. Because the result of the story that he can't work as a lawyer, that there will be appeals, cassation courts, that they will be re-elected judges, is fear. The result is fear, resulting in either obedience or apathy. Today is really the hardest time for people in the judiciary. Honorable and honest, to a large extent, to a large extent, they know that they can easily lose their jobs in the cleaners that DOS plans, meaning about 1,000 people are being replaced. If they lose their jobs, they can't do their job in law enforcement for four years. They work under the worst possible conditions. They're supposed to be conducting investigations on the DA's orders. And government members and obedient media are already arresting, pressing charges and judging. Worst of all, in the media, someone's secret hand shares criminal charges in a political account, normally, and of course orchestrated, of course tested, with whom they need to know by nature things selectively selected political targets by the DOS regime. You're a doctor of legal science, and you know that the first step in the investigation process before its launch, that the investigative judge meets the potentially accused of what's in the criminal report. Many potential defendants have already been convicted, convicted because criminal charges have already been made public in the media on the same day. Not only did criminal charges, but the media conducted the investigation, filed charges and ruled against the DOS political opponent. They know very well that these same judges and prosecutors will soon be controlled by what they were doing during the DOS regime. It is simple, today, while you are the minister of justice and local self-government certainly the hardest for those who are employed in the prosecution and the judiciary. It is clear to them that through various ways, through the reconstruction of the judiciary, through the necessary new elections, through the abolition of possible chances of working in law, it says - be obedient. A huge number of them are honorable and they want to do their job fair and square. But how to do it fairly when the government representing the executive government orders, already arrests and judges. Even one minister in Vienna says that someone will answer, even convicted, may be on death row, and we read that in newspapers that are coming out of this country these days. Therefore, Your Honor, you must resist it. You had to stand up against it. You were the first to tell your colleagues in the government and publicly through the newspapers -- no one can say anything about any criminal report, no misdemeanor, let alone arrest people, say there's an indication, even that they're going to be sentenced to death. Because, then, you yourself know, Mr. Batic, there is no independent judiciary, as unfortunately it is not. There are, unfortunately, many honorable people in the judiciary who find it terribly difficult and pray to God that this time is over as soon as possible and that they can do their job properly. If the salary was a little out, I admit, in some earlier periods, it's gone completely to the other side now. They only have two exits, or to calm down, and you didn't do it, or the extreme will be completely different. About the events in Konvanjanska Street on 30 March, when strangers appeared in front of a residence in which the president of the SPS and former president of Serbia, former SRJ President, did not even speak, even you allowed yourself at the conference, next to the prime minister, to talk about the indictment, although it is clear to you as a lawyer that there is no indictment of speech. She's not even here today, because they're terribly slow to go investigating for all those who have been arrested in advance, so of course they've been arrested and put in custody, so that they don't, ironically, influence witnesses. As Slobodan Milosevic, who was guarded by the VJ, the national security, whose phones are all controlled, who has been charged by Madeline Albright, it doesn't matter to you, The Hague Tribunal or Madeline Albright, it's the paradigms of each other, and the kidnapping of five million dollars, promised, how he can be the one who affects witnesses when every conversation can be recorded and recorded, when every movement knew. (President: Time. I'll move on to the next two dates.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7646	He has the word Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7647	Mr. President, honourable Members of the People, I would like to try this debate of ours to focus on those facts that are in themselves precedent and to which it is necessary to point. New parliamentaryism in Serbia entered the 11th year, but in 11 years of parliamentary life in Serbia, it has never happened that MPs debate, decide, criticise or support one of the government's members, because such an initiative has been launched in accordance with the Assembly's Work Rules of Procedure. I have a report from the Assembly that says that, for example, only between 1993 and 2000, 10 proposals were launched for the resolution of one of the ministers of the Republic government and one proposal to recall the entire cabinet, but never those points were found in the agenda points to be discussed by MPs. I think that what we have done to the parliamentary majority, to the best extent, we have denied all that in its essence could be this fundamental criticism that is being addressed today to DOS, which defines the situation in society as illegal, and the country we live in, as an illegal society. Such facts, mentioned here, cannot in themselves support such speculation, which stems from the motion to recall Mr Batic. If we were to speak only of Vladan Batic, then we, as MPs, would not be obliged to defend him. He himself is capable of something like that and quite certain, the fact that after 11 years he is a supporter in a political struggle that was, by all means, difficult, exclusive, uncompromising enough, he speaks of his ability to deny everything that is put on him today, as an individual, a parent, a believer, a citizen of this society. However, it is much more important that the other, resulting from the conviction of Mr Batic, and as regards the trust that we, as a member of the DOS, have given to Mr Batic, in doing and doing a very responsible job. We can talk today - whether we live in a country that is legally regulated and whether this society is run by a government, behind which is the parliamentary majority, who wants to further regulate it in accordance with the law or in accordance with their own personal interests, which can, but let's say, do not have to be the consequence of our efforts to keep everything in line with the law. We live in a society that wasn't ready, with the will of those who are criticising us today, to arrange a constitution, to live in a society that was ready (I'm talking about the Republic Constitution) that relations between the two federal republics offices at a party meeting, the Constitution which is essentially the cause of a major part of the problem, which we are trying to solve today (I mean the unsettled relations between Serbia and Montenegro). Then we live in a country that has prevailing legal solutions, overcome above all because they are only the fruit of changing that legal practice and the rights arising from the communist arrangement of our society. You will admit that it will be difficult to find analogy between communism, law and justice. I have listened carefully to the reasoning of this initiative and it seems to me that the most powerful motive, which deserves comment, is a motive that explains itself by insisting on honor and responsibility for those who perform public functions. That is true, and that is why we must clearly point our finger at each of us who opposes this principle on which we must rest the democratic society in which we live today. But is it possible to talk about honor and responsibility, and then judge those who do not only think about personal honor and personal responsibility, in which, for example, it produces some kind of political benefit for what they do, or what they do, but responsibility for something that will happen in the near future or beyond? Was it responsible to engage in conflict with the greatest part of the world, while avoiding the answer to the question - what is the real outcome of such a conflict? Is it responsible to say today - The Hague tribunal does not rest on the principles of international justice, The Hague tribunal itself does not know how many times it has changed the procedure through which the procedure of its operation is defined, or should be said - despite all that, The Hague tribunal is an international community institution, and for Serbia there is no happiness and future beyond the world. Criticising Mr Batic for disrespecting the electoral will of citizens, which is expressed through the introduction of forced administrations in some local self-governments, is, in fact, a criticism of DOS on the same topics and issues that we have criticised the previous government. Be assured that DOS today would not exist, that one, not a word, but a letter of criticism that explains the necessary measures introduced in some local self-governments is true. True, forced measures have been introduced into 17 local self-governments because they and such local self-governments have not functioned. It didn't work because they didn't come from the electoral will of the citizens, but from the electoral manipulation. Otherwise, the citizens, who came to the municipal offices and your election headquarters, or your party, would support you, not exorcise you. These are circumstances that are not good, which change, these are circumstances that are regulated in accordance with the laws that exist in this society. An emergency measure has been taken in local self-government before. I'll tell you, let's just say, about everything that's happened in the Old Town municipality -- according to the same rules, according to the same law, the Republic Government, not just the Justice Department, has introduced local self-government in those environments where normal functioning was not possible. You often quote here the results of the repeated local elections in some election units in which municipal councils' committees gave up their mandate and left the position of representatives, most often of all of your parties, in local self-government. In these reelections there is a DOS somewhere, somewhere in the SRS, somewhere the Socialists, but the elections are being held, and that is a crown argument that denies all that you have in terms of criticism of the misusing of the Justice Ministry in dealing with political inexperiences said. Today, there is no point in talking about the purpose of an idea that considers everything that is happening in the "B" leeway sector to be a command and will of the North Atlantic Pact. Those who told the assembly speaker that NATO is now commanding the Serbian army and police who are entering the land's security zone, completely, I'm not sure they'll be able to do anything to repeat it to those who are doing it today on our behalf. It is important to say that this is not a DOS political project, it is the national interest of our society, our civil society. The return of peace and stability to that part of our country's space and territory, which, in itself, was not the space in which so far lived. We don't need tutors, and that's why it's a good thing that the authorities of this society, the institutions of the state are law enforcement, and they're seducing order where it hasn't been so far, to the extent that it was necessary. It's not the will of the NATO Pact, nor is it the will of any foreign country, it's the sole position of the ability, the wisdom of the state leadership that under circumstances, which were similar to the circumstances in which you led the country, found a different way out and, certainly, a much better solution. I would like this congregation debate to be conducted in the spirit of the facts of the precedent, which we have reached out to today, and I am absolutely confident that the citizens of the country will be able to understand the message we have given them in this way. We hide nothing from the public, at any moment we are ready to make an account for what we are doing, and even this argument and fact, we deny all those who say that the new Serbia is a country to be ashamed of, because of those who lead it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7648	Minister Batic picked up the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7649	It really is a difficult position for people in the judiciary. But unfortunately, the position of people is difficult in both health care and education and all other social activities and companies. It's a tragic legacy of the past. Unfortunately, that's what we inherited. In happy countries where there is a change of government, a new government or a new government inherits a full register, full of funds, a good economy, developed infrastructure - we inherited a wasteland everywhere, and in the judiciary. There ain't no tricks on the people in the judiciary. The very fact that since the formation of the government has been three and a half months, and that only a few presidents of the courts and several prosecutors have been changed in the best way confirms that no hack has been conducted, there is no repression, but it is perfectly normal and that selection is being conducted. It is perfectly normal that, first of all, those who did not do their job well are replaced by those who were in charge of judicial functions. Because if anyone knew, and he knew about, say, the colder in the Danube on 6 April 1999 and he was a district attorney, the district attorney, the president of the court, the investigative judge and kept quiet, it's normal for such people to have no place in those functions. It's an accurate finding, I've repeated it countless times, and the vast number of judges is fair, honest, and responsible for doing their job. They were apathetic, they were demoralized, they had poor wages, but I mentioned -- unfortunately, that was the state's attitude towards justice. Not to say that I guess we're the only country in the world where the Supreme Court of the country doesn't have its own building, and in which the President of the Constitutional Court of the country is not a lawyer, but an economist. So these are the truths, the facts, and our reality. So, no retribution, no rematchism. What Mr. Ivkovic mentioned, I have to tell you that in transition countries a re-election of judges has been carried out everywhere. There is a draft law on courts and judges, which should be a completely different way of affirming a free and independent judiciary, because it will practically be the Supreme Judicial Council that will select the holders of judicial functions, or the selection of judges. It will, in practice, be without the influence of executive power. So that's how it was in almost all transition countries. We probably have to make a cut at some point, but there's just no retaliatory action. I was honored to go to court, to the judges. I haven't turned a single phone to any judge, I haven't spoken to one, I haven't spoken to any president of the court, I haven't called any public prosecutor. Feel free to say the name of someone the minister of justice influenced in any way. As for the arrest, I've threatened nowhere with arrests, but I've pointed out the principle of responsibility and I point it out today. We must raise the principle of responsibility to the level of the Gospel, and as a parrot, I repeat it over and over again. Before responsibility, no one, no former, no current, no future authority can be immune. Responsibility must be a principle that everyone must accept. Otherwise, there's no free and independent judiciary, there's no rule of law, there's no democracy, there's nothing. That's how it's gonna be. If anyone thinks that this debate is going to sway me -- no, it's going to be an additional stimulant for more intensive work for as effective a judiciary as possible and for as fast as possible by establishing the principles of responsibility everywhere and in every place. Because, as beneath the statue of the goddess Justicia, it says, "Let there be justice, even if the world fails," so it must be in Serbia, and that old Roman maximum: "The bread and the games" here is the people, watch the polls of public opinion, read the newspaper, turn into a new syntagma: "The bread and the justice". That's how it's gonna be and so help me God.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Batic really has the right to speak after each of us, and I have answered the line, I think Minister Batic admits that he mentioned me. Mr Batić, you would be a good minister of justice and justice to me if, as justice minister after the first statement of any of your government colleagues (targets of any of the leading people, especially from the opposition parties) about the arrest, you said publicly that you condemn your government colleague's statement, that you do not allow this to happen and that the judiciary must work independently. That you said and publicly reported to the press that no judge, no prosecutor will be left without a job, except for those special situations where the Supreme Court president has the right to initiate the procedure, with the Assembly's consent, for resolution. I'm not interested in transition countries. These countries lived in the system of the Eastern bloc countries, and since the judges were elected there, I have no idea, especially that I am a builder, but here, in this assembly all the judges are elected so that their work is guaranteed. You're the ones who have to take them for protection and you have to feel that they feel one insecurity, because they're threatened by the Bar of Lawyers that they won't work for four years, and there are cases like that that they're basically forbidden to work as lawyers for four years. They are threatened with a new legal solution, a similar shameful legal solution from the draft law on the university, that for four years those who were deans, produced, members of the board of directors cannot be elected to office. He's threatening judges and prosecutors that they can't be in law enforcement for four years. At the same time, the President of the Supreme Court and the President of the District Court are visiting and talking about the reorganisation, and you are not answering, Minister Batic. You have to answer it. You have to be clear, it's about reorganization, it's not allowed to work, so fear has entered them. When fear enters them, it is clear that it will either be in apathy or will do as they are told. You have to protect them. You had to go out and tell them through the papers -- no one can arrest them, no newspapers can publish criminal charges or who can deliver them, no newspapers can judge, because then the media hack and the pressure is on Serbia's justice system. As justice minister, I don't allow that kind of pressure. I don't allow government members to do that. I'm not letting any judge or prosecutor get fired. Everybody's gonna do their job. If you had provided these conditions, I would, as well as the citizens of Serbia, have the right to think that an independent judiciary is possible. However, since it is not there, my great confidence is, and believe me, many citizens of Serbia, everyone is happy on the street to talk, that it is the worst and the hardest today. Not only are they even worse off with salaries, because their salaries are less valuable because their taxes are higher, so the standard has fallen, but the pressure on them is terrible and uncertainty over the people who work in the judiciary is great. You didn't protect them enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7651	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please understand me in my best interest. We've opened this debate and we'll have a debate without a time limit. So, the promoter is entitled to an hour plus ten minutes for another announcement, the president of the parliamentary groups three times ten minutes each, means a total of half an hour, Minister Batic, of course, how many needs he needs to respond to remarks. But I have the impression that we're slowly getting away with the basic subject. We're starting to talk more about everything else than what Minister Batic puts on the line. Please keep that in mind, I'm really saying this in the best way, we all planned to finish this session together. We already have 14 registered MPs, so please make sure that we avoid repeating arguments, avoid a story that is beyond what is on the agenda and that, as far as possible, we have a session on Monday to pay attention to the situation in Kosovo, since we agreed that we will not work tomorrow. Please, let's start going back to what we're doing today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7652	Mr. President, I find you misread the Rules of Procedure. Of course, the minister whose trust we have submitted a motion for a vote has the right to respond. He can use that right, since every speaker will mention it. But it's a straight line to the replica. He's one of the speakers per article 88, where we're all classified in certain categories. The minister is classed as a member of the government, which is not subject to the registration order, but concerns a time limit. The difference between the minister and the president is that there is no order for the president, but he has no limited time. So every speaker here can speak once, and the exception is a proposing that speaks twice three plus one, the exception is the committee's experts twice one, the exception is the president of the parliamentary groups three times one. Then when it's over, the minister as a speaker can ask for a word again, if you don't think it's clear enough. Article 88. That's all the rules of procedure he's talking about -- there can't be a single minister on a number of occasions on a agenda to go out for a pay phone. He can't. It wasn't an emergency for the Rules of Procedure to come out once, and for the minister to come out as many times as he wanted. It is simply said that the minister can speak twice as much from the MPs and does not have to stand in line to wait for the pay phone. It's just a matter of work, if you would interpret the Rules of Procedure so that the minister can go out for a pay phone countless times. He can't. But Minister Batic has the right of course after every speaker at this point, but only on replica. Not according to the Rules of Procedure. Then I'd ask you to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7653	Well, yeah, there's a problem with the last position of article 88, which hasn't been changed in the Rules of Procedure. So we inherited it, where it says -- the government's president of the National Assembly gives a word when they ask for it. Their exposure can last twice as long. You think when they ask for it once, and I think it's still in the circumstances when this part is related to the resolution. Of course, it doesn't matter to you. He's always entitled to a replica. Every time it refers to him and will be mentioned. So it's not a dispute in essence. Mr. Kovacevic answered, same in the Rules of Procedure? He gave up. Mr. Wolfie, first call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS Parliamentary Group has tabled a motion for a no-confidence vote by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Vladna Batic. It is not the exact information you provide, given by the president of the National Assembly and the head of the parliamentary group of the ruling majority, which says this is the first time that any minister or government has been replaced. There were more examples in the earlier period, so don't take that kind of exclusive right yourself. I will remind you of 1993 and the debate on the government of Nikola Sainovic, which initiated the SRS. The debate lasted 20 days and the government fell then. It was 1993, when we submitted it as an opposition party. We have submitted an initiative to replace Minister Vlajko Stoiljkovic and this should have been put on the agenda, but Minister Vlajko Stojljkovic has resigned because of the arguments and because of everything we have brought here, from this assembly pay phone. Earlier, and this was the period when the SPS supported New Democracy, then proposals for radicals to vote for mistrust with the government and individual ministers were not put on the agenda. That's true. That's what's really true and nothing else. This is not the first time anyone has spoken of, that someone would want to do it in such a way as to show all their democracy and say that this is the first time in Serbia. Nothing in Serbia happens the first time, not even this. We thought a lot of bad things were over once and for all, but here we see them repeating themselves and getting much worse. Minister Batic, speaking from this speaker, is responsible for what he said in his exposé as a proponent, i.e. a representative of the promoter, Tomislav Nikolic, showed exactly what Mr Nikolic was talking about. He showed that he spoke with hatred of political opponents, of those who think differently. He showed it, he couldn't hide it. I graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, with the highest marks, with the highest success. I say Tomislav Nikolic is more educated than I am and knows much more. You shouldn't have, and you couldn't have treated your political opponents the way you acted. It is not true that Tomislav Nikolic was ever a member of any other political party, except the SRS and before that of the People's Radical Party, when there was unification and never the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia. According to our data, it is true, according to Mr Batic, that he was not admitted to the party, but he twice submitted the request in 1982 and 1983. Because he was unscheduled in solving administrative cases, he was not admitted to the bodies of the congregation. There is something much more important, which Mr Batic here did not talk about, which neither Mr Jovanovic nor anyone else spoke about. It is the fate of the people delivered to The Hague. I'll talk about it. By what law? According to the constitution, Serbia, the SRJ, which is the country's Milomir Stakic, was arrested in a raid when he visited, that is, when it was said at the open door to his son's school. Who made this decision, and in what way and who implemented it? Milomir Stakic is in prison outside of this country today. According to Minister Batic, we must make peace with the fact that there are some of our people who have committed crimes. How does Mr Batic know that Milomir Stakic committed these crimes? How does he advance his sentence? It's not an investigative procedure, nor is there an indictment accurate or anything, but it's known that the man is guilty. He's been known to commit crimes. What's his kids gonna do? What's his family gonna do? What will the family of Blago Simic who, according to Mr Batić, do a patriotic act? He did not do it because he will, because Mr Batic was not a psychic Zorka, so to say - some will surrender themselves, as you invented in the election campaign for the Kreman prophecy, they saw a Kostunica or I don't know what, which doesn't even say in the Kreman prophecy. So Minister Batic knew that some would surrender exactly three days later in society and accompanied by Minister Batic at the airport, the man surrenders to The Hague tribunal. With obvious discomfort, with obvious fear for everything that's going on, for everything that's threatening him. Today this man is in the case of The Hague, and it is about Blago Simic. He didn't surrender voluntarily, but the criminals and the armed men took him directly onto the plane, only when he got on the plane, then they were all removed. These are key questions, these are essential questions. No one here spoke of any Svilen, in our proposal we talked about Lemon, Peter Panic and Glass, if Svileni was one with a sock, of those who arrested someone somewhere, he might have. I haven't heard of this silk and it wasn't written in the SRS proposal. Furthermore, Minister Batic says he has never seen a hekler. All the papers have been published. We wouldn't know that. Your DOS newspaper, everything in order, has been announced that a hekler was found in your car. In your car. Well, after that, there was a chase that he was chasing, whether someone stole it, whether it was found or not, etc. Where they hid that heckler, if you don't see it. How can it be hidden in a car without you seeing it at all and not knowing what it is? It's what represents amazing things and something we can't agree on. I would now say something about what Mr Batic was talking about, about Kosovo, NATO and everything that happens to his decisions. Mr Batic said, among other things, "Glas", 30.1.2001 -- "Just give us your free hands", which is the title -- "NATO leaders' verdicts are legal farces and farces. They'll be revised. "It is an insult to the full judiciary and to all those people who have worked in this procedure, to all those people who have reached that verdict. Therefore, a judicial verdict, that is the problem, and although there is no procedure, no request for review of the proceedings. The problem is only because NATO leaders are convicted, only because their people are convicted, because those who brought DOS to power have been convicted. That's why they can't be convicted, but they need their orders to be fulfilled, and these are orders to be led to The Hague tribunal. It is something that cannot be accepted and something that, I think, no one in Serbia, and not only the Serbian radicals that are already quite spoken of here, cannot agree with that. I'd like to say a few more things. Since his time in power, Minister Batic has told the Federal Assembly that two curtains or several curtains have been burned there and several livestock have been broken, and then the President of the Council of Citizens meets us that it takes more than 40 million marks for damages to be paid for these two-storys and for several livestock. Is that the understanding of democracy and the damage that's being said here? What kind of question is that? What kind of responsibility is that? The question arises where are 262 automatic rifles, 239 guns, 23 snipers, machine guns and rifles over 20, and three helicopters? Are those the ones that were already talking about here? I have to say about Kosovo and Metohija, the NATO Pact, everything that was said, that we are traitors, and that they are patriots -- not the Serbian Radical Party accepted the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan, but were already accepted by the opposition parties, as well as by some parties within the government, without distinction and accepted the UN Security Council resolution. We didn't do it, and now you're saying peace will flourish in southern Serbia. He won't. Tell the people that out of 400 multiethnic police officers, 330 will be Shipari. Why don't you tell people, that we're going back to that old Tito time, in a much worse way, and in Kosovo and Metohija than you said that the demographic issue is no longer a democratic issue, but it's a matter of Shiptar and their mentors, as well as how they're going to decide. Because in your time, a gift is brought, the central bank of Kosovo and Metohija, their flag, their constitution, their anthem, their coat of arms, etc. Mr Batic said the radicals wrote - the death of Batic. The radicals didn't write it, it's not true. It's not true because radicals never invited anyone to kill. Our password - DOS is the worst, not the death of Batic. And no one has ever died or died in any demonstrations, myths or anything organised by the Serbian Radical Party, and that's a lie, it's not true. I'll tell you something, and I had no intention of telling you. I didn't even tell anyone, even though some DOS people here know that. When you took power, I went out with my son three-year-old Daniel and a friend. I was attacked by two men and one of them called for your party and one of them attacked another party. I didn't transfer it to you either, but you're talking about death, Batic, so I'll tell you what they did. They physically attacked me. I happened to be able to defend myself physically, but my kid yelled at me three days later -- Dad, Dad, and he cried. But I'm telling you right now, that's the terror you've seduced in Serbia, Mr. Batic. It's a hickey you seduced in Serbia, against political opponents, but my child is not a problem. The problem is the child of Milomir Stakic, the problem is the children of Blago Simic and those who will not return soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7655	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and then by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7656	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Alexander Vukic is right. Serbian radicals have raised the issue of trust very often, whether individual or government ministers did so on several occasions. Remember that procedure, the 20 days we shot down Sainovic's government, when we asked for an examination of Minister Vlajko Stojljkovic's trust. There were other demands from Serbian radicals, but they were not put on the agenda, only at a time when the SPS had a coalition partner New Democracy and then, at the request of New Democracy, it was always removed from the agenda, and today the new democracy is part of the DOS coalition. Minister Batic, justice minister and local self-government are finally on the agenda. Of course, we would like to discuss something else today, how to improve the efficiency of the economy, how to improve the social status of our citizens, but public behaviour, public appearances, public appearances, the work of Vladan Batic in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that is, his dissatisfaction in that government, forced us to ask today to put this point on the agenda. I am convinced that many MPs, all MP groups will participate in this debate and that we will eventually come to the belief that it is necessary to carry out the shift of Minister Batic from the government of the Republic of Serbia. However, one parliamentary group today does not participate in the work of the National Assembly for reasons they have presented or for some other reasons, so they will be denied the fact that they too are discussing Minister Batic. I will begin with the behaviour of Minister Batic towards the MPs, according to the respect of the National Assembly. He is often not present in the National Assembly, or rarely there. It comes sometimes, and it's a habit from when he was in opposition and was in the Democratic Party of Serbia, before the end of his working hours around 19.15, he gives us a fire speech, insults the MPs of opposition parties, and then smiles satisfactorily as a man who, behold, proved something, as a man who is strong, powerful, etc. He's trying to be quiet today, to be quiet, to be like a lamb, to be like a Smurf, but that doesn't go with his hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7657	Mr. Stamenkovic, I warn you what terms you use. You must be careful, I warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7658	I didn't insult anyone. All right, I'll be careful. Mr. Vladan Batic, the minister of justice and local self-government recently said at a meeting of the municipal board or the assembly of the municipal board in Valjevo that he advocated and that he always advocated that criminals would be put in prison, lunatics in asylum, and criminals in The Hague. The trouble is that Minister Batic takes his exclusive right to personally assess who the criminal is, who the lunatic is, and who the war criminal is. In his public appearances, and as he likes to take pictures and always lead cameras, he announces that extradition will be made to The Hague and even lists the names of the persons to be extradited. In doing so, he does not think that the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia prohibits that Yugoslav citizens are expelled, that their citizenship is taken and that they can be extradited to any international court. He even openly says that the bill on co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which will be discussed in the Federal Assembly, will make no sense unless it provides for the possibility of handing over our citizens. It even announces the possibility of a federal government crisis if DOS coalition partners in the federal government, the SNP do not vote in favour of such a bill. While KFOR forces, the international community, these days with the help of Covic are trying to train Cypriot terrorists to train Serbian police uniforms, while Cypriot terrorists and criminals are being released from Serbian prisons, while at the same time being tried by Serb soldiers and police officers, Minister Batic also talks about The Hague. I think Mr. Batic is obsessed with The Hague. I see in this an attempt to amneste the behaviour of the international community, 10 years of severe and bloody sanctions, the destruction of the Serb people in Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, Serbia. Minister Batic says he wrote a letter while in opposition. You may have written the letters, but nobody seems to be cutting you down, Mr. Minister, there's no answer to those letters, and if you've listed in those letters all the crimes committed by members of the American administration, the German army, the French army, why don't you let them arrest their criminals first, let them put them there in The Hague, let them be tried, and then we'll judge if there are criminals in our ranks. It may be The Hague's reality, but The Hague is not a reality for all of us. Maybe it's just for you. And if some Serbs have committed some crimes, our courts will judge them, let them answer in their own country. Like this, you'd have Serbs in The Hague, madhouses and dungeons, and Americans for friends. I think Mr Batic is one of the greatest American lobbyists, lobbyists of The Hague and lobbyists of the United States. We know how much damage the Serbian people suffered from American lobbyists, from lobbyists at the American Congress. lobbyists never work for free, they don't work for pretty eyes, lobbyists always get paid for something. American, or Shipatarian lobbyists were paid the money earned from drug trafficking, from blackmail, theft, robbery, kidnapping and confiscation of Serbian properties. Maybe Mr. Batic works for nice eyes, maybe he has special sympathy for Carla del Ponte, they're both young and beautiful, and masculine, so maybe that's where he draws sympathy. I'm right...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7659	Mr. Stamenkovic, you still have to keep in mind what's on the agenda. You have not made yet, not just any new argument, but you are using expressions that are not for this pay phone, and I am reminding you for the second time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7660	I didn't say anything ugly, and you're not authorized to interpret and assess whether I made an argument or not. The People's Messenger makes arguments as he believes. It's about discussing Minister Batić's trust, and I'm presenting facts that I think are valid and proportionate. I'm trying to convince the MPs that they accept my arguments and vote for mistrust, Batic. Mr Batic did nothing to bring to justice those who admitted on public television and on state television that they burned state television. He calls them revolutionaries, and he himself says he is proud that he has participated in such a revolution and that he is a participant in these events. Let me remind you, Maki publicly admitted that he was wearing a bottle of Molotov cocktail and that he couldn't steal because his hands were busy throwing those bottles of gasoline. Finally, let me tell you that Vladan Batic is one of the creators of these crisis headquarters that are still active in some municipalities, in some companies, and that one of the people who leads the abductions of the Serbian Radical Party's business space is one example. It is a small town of Merošin, the end of Nis, a former communist fighter Toncic, is now a DOS member, illegally holding property, trying to drive Serbian radicals out of business space at any cost. Of course, we won't let that happen, like we won't let anyone try to take that business space from us anywhere. I call on you today to replace Prime Minister Vladan Batic, so that tomorrow we do not regret everything, because for me he is an extremely dangerous man, a man who hates, who does not speak in the words of a moderate politician and for the damage he can do to all Serbia. There's obviously something going on with Vlad Batic. I remember well, from some earlier years, when he was an MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia, he was sitting here in the second row, but then he came before the end of the working time, but he talked about patriotism, he talked about democracy. It's not the Vladan Batic anymore. He'd like to extradite, banish, arrest, and tomorrow, even if he were to judge and what's worse, maybe he'd execute punishment. That hekler that was found in his car that he denied he ever had, that he owned, those sniper rifles, those automatic rifles that were stolen from the police station in Belgrade, scares me, because imagine that Mr. Vladan Batic came up with the idea that he would personally be an executioner, that he would execute all these penalties. Voting for Kostunica, for SRJ president, citizens voted for Minister Batic to be justice minister, to make Zoran Zivkovic a federal interior minister, so that all others who take these seats today are who they are. I think one of the consequences of such a vote is sitting here today in the front row, otherwise it is not usually there and it is necessary for the MPs after the debate to vote against the Minister of Justice and the local self-government, Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7661	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, followed by Stevo Dragisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7662	Don't -- time -- please, I haven't even stopped for a pay phone yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7663	I'll give you three seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7664	Don't add anything to me, but don't take it from me in advance. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, every man speaks best of himself, his looks, his ways, and his actions. In 1999, at the time of NATO aggression, April, in "Long", an interview with Vladan Batic, where he said he had accused Javier Solana of four concrete crimes on the basis of applicable international law standards. He sent a criminal report to the International Court of War Crimes in The Hague, at the hands of Mrs. Louise Arbur. Because against Javier Solana, he's asking a reporter here. He issued an order to start wartime acts and bomb targets in Serbia, acting contrary to the Charter of the UN and the Statute of the NATO Pact, says Mr Batic. First of all, it is the work of genocide, because there is a Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of Crime and Genocide adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1948, and I accuse him of both aggression and another act, accusing him of war crimes. For war crimes, which is the third type of crime, says Batic, who has committed the Geneva Convention on the Protection of Victims of War. The journalist is still asking - are you expecting an answer? According to the UN tribunal's regulations, they are required to give an answer. I expect an answer and it will be interesting what they will say, says Mr Batic. Did you get the answer, Mr. Battice? Asking whether they realize they are destroying our democratic potentials, Vladan Batic says this about the democratic West -- we misjudge Western democracy. It has nothing to do with what we think of this democracy. It's just interests, there's no "d" here from democracy. That's what Mr Batic said in 1999. He becomes a minister in the Serbian government and on January 30, 2000, in the "Glas" titled - Just give us a free hand, says this - the verdicts to NATO leaders are legal farces and laurdiers. They'll be revised. Yes, it is a farce because you did not arrest Solana as soon as he set foot on our land, Mr Batic, and that the verdicts will be revised and that you will amnesty them, as well as those few hundred well-infected terrorists, we Serbian radicals, and we do not doubt. On the same day, you make another statement -- former President Slobodan Milosevic will definitely end up in The Hague. The only question is whether it'll be right now or a little later. How will he leave, voluntarily, or will the new government deliver him to the tribunal. You have forgotten, Mr. Minister, that it is your utmost duty to defend and apply the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. (Vladan Batic, from the post: I was not a minister then. ) It says nicely that a Serbian citizen cannot be deprived of citizenship, exiled or extradited, Article 47(2). The Constitution. The Hague is seeking Milosevic, and we all know that, to create, to secure an alibi for NATO's aggression of the pact and collateral damage as they call war crimes. In Telegraph, on February 7, 2001, under the title - We will not decide where Milosevic will be tried, you say: I fear that we will not decide where Milosevic will be tried. The UN tribunal will decide that. Mr. Batic, you allow someone else to decide such an important matter, because you actually agree with Carla del Ponte's position, and otherwise you would say something else entirely. What one minister, a sovereign state, would have to say if it holds to the integrity of its state, which is that no Serb should be delivered to The Hague tribunal. Vladan Batic, this is my conclusion, is the blind listener Carla del Ponte and the mere executioner of her orders. "Blic," March 11th, these are all your words, Mr. Batic: "Milosevic must go to jail by the end of March. The United States told democratic authorities in Belgrade that if they expect to continue US financial assistance after 31 March by the end of the month, they must arrest Slobodan Milosevic and co-operate at the same time in the extradition of at least one other war crimes indictee on the territory of the SRJ, as well as the release of all Albanian prisoners." Was Milosevic arrested by that deadline? Yes, it is. Was another Serb delivered to The Hague? Yes, it is. Mr. Stakic was arrested at the moment and in a way that is known to everyone, when he attended a parenting meeting with his child. Have they been released from prison by the Shipatarian terrorists? They did. "News", 21 March 2001, Serbia will hand over foreign citizens, a subtitle, Minister Batic's desire to go to The Hague and meet with his dear Carla del Ponte, we see in the photograph how he smiles happily. He's got it all figured out. In Belgrade, an intensive investigation into the former president is said to be under way. A large number of his close associates give us interesting information, and it is very likely that criminal proceedings will soon be launched against him. And he adds that he is not in his jurisdiction to talk about arrests and investigations. That's what he always says, but only after he announces an investigation or arrest. In "The Voice" of March 21st, Vladan Batic said: "I expect Slobodan Milosevic to be arrested for the crimes he committed." He knows he's committed them. If not until March 31st, it's that day of "D," then shortly after that. Already the next day, in "Glass", Vladan Batic said, after meeting with Karl del Ponte, that war crimes indictees other than Yugoslav citizens would be handed over to the tribunal and announced that some of them would turn themselves in. He knows who some of them are, those over whom he has put pressure. He already knows what he is doing and what pressure Simic is exerting on Simic, to surrender voluntarily to The Hague tribunal. Whoever wants to connect the facts can clearly see who and how they knit the net around what The Hague is looking for. On April 2nd, again in "Glass", it is your favorite magazine looks, at a press conference, has expressed satisfaction that the action to arrest Slobodan Milosevic has passed without spilling blood. Did she pass without spilling blood? And based on a criminal report filed by the M.O.P. on March 30th. "It is not true that I made a promise to The Hague tribunal that I would deliver it." Does anyone believe you? If anyone in this country trusts you, Mr. Batic, after all these previous statements you made. You did everything you could to kidnap, so as she failed, a criminal report arrived, so a solution to conduct an investigation, signed by investigative judge Goran Cavlin, the same one that resolved the functions of the previous regime, the periances of the judge's society, which was funded by the Soros Foundation. In the "News" of 21 April, under the title "Justice for All", Mr Batic asked Carla del Ponte to reconsider the responsibility of the so-called leader. The KLA also demystify the widespread belief that only Serbs are tried in The Hague. For Vladan Batic, it is not disputed that Serbs are war criminals and should be tried in The Hague for this, but it would be much easier for him to go to The Hague if the Cypriot terrorists went to The Hague. We don't care if the Ship's terrorists go to The Hague. Vladan Batic's statement on constitutional frameworks also comes in turn. The title "Hakerup too boast", says Batic, referring to haughtiness in the performance and unilateral decision-making. Well, he says -- it's still leading to the creation of two special entities in Kosovo and Metohija. In a few days, I will go to Kosovo and hope to meet Hackerup, and we will see what the trends are about the final arrangement of institutions in Kosovo. Like, he's exactly the one, Batic, who's going to tell Hackerup - well, don't say it like that. At the same time, Covic advertises with the same idea of creating two special entities in Kosovo and Metohija, while Democratic Party Vice President Rada Trajkovic confirms that this is the only correct solution, expressing his Democratic Party's position, I guess. In Serbia, Mr Batic, thanks to you, your Sundays, he ruled fear among citizens, both for personal safety and for property security. That fear is first of all what you do, with your behavior. Let the MPs and the public themselves assess whether there is room for abuse of the official position here and whether that is sufficient reason for Vladan Batic to be relieved of the minister's functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7665	The word has a National MP, Stevo Dragisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7666	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS voted against the Serbian government's election, led by Zoran Djindjic. We voted because we are the opposition and because we are obliged as an opposition party to criticise the government and vote for the personal composition of the government's programme. But today's proposal, which we are discussing, is not just a fragment of the struggle between the authorities and the opposition. It is not only a way to draw attention to the government's faults as an opposition party or to draw attention to our qualities. Today's proposal, first of all, aims to halt the formation of a custom in the functioning of the executive and judicial authority, to prevent the minister's self-government, from jeopardising the independence and independence of judges. That's the point of today's initiative. We were able as an opposition party to apply for government resolution, so we could discuss globally the effects of the government as a whole. But we felt that the priority goal was to prevent this self-government and this violence demonstrated by Justice Minister Vladan Batic. He began to form a custom in relations between the judicial authority and the executive authority. The custom of law is primarily formed by continuous repetition of a particular procedure, and in order for that practice to be obtained and legal power there must be awareness of the obligation of such a type of behaviour. Of course, what Justice Minister Vladan Batic is doing has no foothold in the current legal order. The Minister of Justice is not the highest authority in the judiciary. The minister of justice is part of the executive authority, and judges and courts are a special body of state authority. It is a branch of the judicial authority that is independent of the executive authority under the constitution. So Vladan Batic, as minister, cannot appear as the supreme arbitration officer in the performance of judicial functions and in the affairs of judicial authorities. It is not Vladan Batic, or the minister of justice, anywhere near what could be said about the MUP. Because the police minister has certain powers in doing the police ministry's work directly. Vladan Batic is an economy, he makes sure that courts have conditions for doing their job normally. It is the main duty of Vladan Batic. Vladan Batic must not declare guilty, Vladan Batic must not comment on the course of the investigation, Vladan Batic must not comment on the outcome of the trial, as it is a direct interference in performing his judicial function. In his work so far, in addition to interfering directly with the work of judges and judges, Vladan Batic showed a high dose of violent behavior. It all started with that famous intrusion into Galenika. At that time, Belgrade-safety director Slobodan Rondovic wrote a letter under number 1831/2, from 11 October 2000, saying: "On October 10th 2000, around 19.30 hours, three luxury cars arrived at gate 2, in which there were appropriate persons: Dusan Mitevic and Vladan Batic. On arrival at gate 2, unknown persons came out of one car, armed with a semi-automatic gun and demanded that they be provided with a passage to the AD "Gallenice" management building. On that occasion, they showed our police badge workers. If those badges were real or speculative, we don't know. Vladan Batic also left the car, waving his hands with some papers and saying that a Paris court ruled that their ownership of AD "Gallenika" had to be handed over to them immediately. Our workers didn't want to open the gate, but they did it by force and entered the circle of Galenika, heading towards the administrative building. Given the fact that part of the people who followed Vladan Batic and Dusan Mitevic were armed and showed police badges, our security, as well as the Galenika security, did not resist because human casualties would likely occur. After this event at gate 2, our controller tried to enter the management building AD "Gallenika", but was met there by unknown persons armed with semi-automatic guns, heklers, and disabled every approach to the director of AD "Gallenika", Marija Krstajic. Immediately after this event, AD worker Galenika, who was assigned to the security of Galenika, Vlad Mutic, ordered that our workers ("Belgrade-safety") be withdrawn from security at the AD "Gallenika" facilities. Violent behaviour, demonstrated immediately by Vladan Batic after the October revolution, continued and later, when he took over as justice minister. This was told by others about Vladan Batic, this is a testimony from others about what Vladan Batic is ready to do, and now here is what Vladan Batic said about himself, confirming his violent methods in performing functions and in winning power. The already famous case in Leban, written on "Blic" on March 19th of this year, titled "Repeated Local Elections No later than 90 Days", conveys a statement by Vladan Batic: "A crisis staff has been formed in Lebanon that requires the shift of the Yugoslav left authority, which has 29, out of 31 council members. The crisis headquarters broke into the municipal assembly building and asked for the shift of municipal leaders. The supporters of the local authorities then beat up DOS supporters. They responded by blocking the main road road of Leskovac-Medvedja and asked for the arrest of municipality president Gojko Marjanovic and police chief Srdjan Mitic." Minister Batic, who was found in Valjevo, noted that the government did not give the green light to form a crisis headquarters in Leban and did not support the violent takeover of power. He also said that criminal charges have been filed against the JUL beatings. In the same way, the DOS already knows whose consent and coordination took over in some other municipalities in Serbia, where it did not go as it did in Leban. Where the mob from the street manages to enter the building and take power from those who won it in the elections, those who lost power didn't deserve to have it. Only in Lebanon did those who had authority decide to defend what they had, so the mob was beaten from the street. (A voice from the O.R.: How long did you have a councilman? This isn't about who had the councilman, and it's obvious that you only had two councilmen, out of 31. I'm not Lebanese. I'm not saying you're Lebanese. I'm saying you had two councilmen in Lebanon. Of the 31 DOS councilmen, he had two, so the two decided that the government was wrong, gathered the crowd and kidnapped the government, and then Minister Batic said they didn't get the green light. Who does that have to get the green light from you? He's speaking to Minister Batic. () Say, say that everyone can hear you, do you need to get the green light? You say -- it was electoral manipulation. If there were electoral manipulations, I will remind you that these are the results of the September elections, when you won power, when Kostunica won the elections. (Minister Batic, from the post: It was seen in December. And it was seen in December, so why don't you call the local elections now, not organize the crowd, give them the green light and say, "Well, now chase the building, and we'll file criminal charges against those if they defend themselves." These are your methods. What would you do in another situation, in a situation that is much more important than the government in a municipality like Lebanese - you would be ready to fire, only if someone gave you a green light. It seems that the green light is the basic principle in the functioning of your government. So, this is obviously about the need to prevent the creation of a dangerous custom that one minister takes justice into his own hands, even if he was a minister of justice, because in that case, every next minister will also allow himself as much degree of como and self-government as Vladan Batic has allowed himself, so who knows what ideas he will have in mind. That's why we think the government has a lot more reason to replace the Minister of Justice than it had reason to replace the Deputy Prime Minister. The government of Zoran Djindjic may have sworn to celibacy, so it had to be removed Vuk Obradovic, but we remember that Zoran Djindjic here promised not to lie, not to steal and that he would act completely contrary to the former regime's representatives. What Vladan Batic did, we do not remember it from the time the SPS was in the coalition with New Democracy. At that time, MPs were kicked out of the Assembly Hall, and now they're kicking the owners of the company out of their buildings. You take private property and violate the will of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7667	The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7668	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, speak of Vladan Batic and his, only his justice is extremely difficult, for there was no person in Serbian history who has so bested to betray Serbian national interests, as does the minister of injustice Vladan Batic. Violation of the country's constitution and law are the main feature of Vladan Batic's performance. The force, the mob, the crowd, the lie, the demolition and the burning are the funds that Vladan Batic has acquired from the authorities. The burning of the most beautiful building in Europe, the Federal Assembly building, for Vladan Batic, is no harm, and all that happened there in front of the entire public is just burning a couple of curtains. On the wings of the bulldozer-revolution, Vladan Batic got hold of the authorities and functions of the minister of justice, where at every turn he shows his immorality, his dishonesty and his insane hatred for all who think otherwise of him. Vladan Batic, in his statements that are faithfully and subjectively presented by DOS media, in advance arrests, sentences without trial, delivers citizens of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to The Hague tribunal. He is ready to serve faithfully to the enemies of the Serbian people and to seek to prosecute and arrest all who were most faithful to the Serb race. With its organized gangs composed of people without any morals whose only motive is the bloody green dollar bills, it convinces citizens who are on the UN tribunal's warrants to surrender themselves and that this will represent the greatest act of patriotism. Serbia has never had a more unscrupulous state official before. Serbian patriots are sold to The Hague tribunal for as much money as their love for the country and Serbia is great. The more he loves the country, the higher the price, possibly the less love he has for his country - the lower the price, and it can be for the stamps, it can be for three waitings. Just one day before the extradition of Blagoj Simic, Vladan Batic announces it, announcing that the unfortunate Blagoje Simic will surrender himself to The Hague. Vladan Batic, by all features of his character, would also hand Stevan Sidelic over to The Hague for shooting in public and disrupting public order and peace and blowing up peaceful Turkish citizens. One of the greatest Serbian heroes, the late Milan Tepic, who blew up hundreds of bloodthirsty Ustasha beasts, would surely convince that it is not right for the Croatians to stand up to eliminate and that such an act must be extradited to The Hague. What is this and what is this idea of a leader who is disturbing Vladan Batic to become the first Serbian Judah without competition? Judas sold Christ for 30 pieces of silver and then hung himself. What is the fate of Vladan Batic? Does betrayal have a price and will Serbs forgive it when they come to their senses and when they realize what kind of officials they have at the head of the state? Should it be mentioned incursions with long pipes in Galenika and the efforts of Vladan Batic not to "Gallenika" to own the Serbian state. The formation of criminal gangs, the formation of crisis headquarters, the invasion of the Red Flag also with an armed gang, are a means of scaring Serbian citizens. The warrants, bounty hunters, desperados and apostates are back on track in Serbia, thanks to Vladan Batic. Serbian radicals are a thorn in the eye of Vladan Batic and he already has a plan to eliminate them from the Serbian political scene. We read in the newspaper, in the list of "The Witness" - from the fucara should be composed and organised by the improvised fake congress of the Serbian Radical Party, on which DOS members would make up the majority, where legitimate SRS leaders should be replaced, so that listeners and servants of Vladan Batic are chosen over those who are not at the will of Vladan Batic. Then Vladan Batic will register a new SRS as justice minister, and all SRS deputies will be expelled from the National Assembly. The physical liquidation of Professor Vojislav Seselj has not been ruled out either. Is all this enough for Minister of Justice Vladan Batic? Probably not, because the DOS majority didn't come to power because of the love of country and heart, but because of love for Europe and her crazy daughter America.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7669	I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7670	I'm glad you warned me. You've warned all Serbian radicals, and I haven't had that opportunity, I'm so glad. The minister of injustice Vladan Batic is slowly but surely becoming the most hated figure of the Serbian political scene. An anteater eats ants all his life, and eventually ants eat him. The fate of Vladan Batic will show time. For now, it is quite clear that Vladan Batic is diligently building a new cell tower of Serb heads.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7671	The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarevic has the word, and the next is MP Mirko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7672	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the time has come for Mr. Vladan Batic to act in his own style. The time for which he fought arrived on the wings of the revolution. The revolution is under way, and Prime Minister Vladan Batic is now operating in the process. The ministry of justice, led by Mr Batic, has not yet really established itself. Why and to establish when all the main moves of this ministry are made by Mr. Vladan Batic? How does he turn it into justice? All of his demands and procedures are first released to the public through the media, and then he comes after the information received, as a well-checked way of thinking broadly, and there is some idea he uses in his own way. Mr. Vladan Batic is the president of the Democratic Party. It's a weird party wing. As the great son of Serbia, he exalts himself and represents himself on the screens of our cities. Why does one great man do that if he really is a great man? This great man is going after our small municipalities and in the DOS Corps he's trying to gather people for his party. The price is familiar. No morals. Destroy DOS. Let him tear it down, because he is, in fact, a revolutionary who was brought down by that same revolution. The pathways of political action of Mr Batic are strange. He judges, arrests and locks people up, making statements that he doesn't have any information about it right now. Every time he makes statements, he seems like he's not from this environment. It's like he came from a European glass garden, where everything is clean and fine. He should pass, and he will suffer severe consequences when the people judge him. Why does he behave as a fan at our games, and he is indeed a minister of justice and then makes certain statements that some give their courts, or, after those statements, follow the criminal measures? I remember his statements in information when Carla del Ponte came. Some DOS leaders denied the arrival of the person concerned in the first place, and then Vladan Batic, who is having talks with her, as if we are all to blame for being alive. I guess it's all in his style. Certain DOS politicians make various statements about The Hague tribunal. Some in their statements want to regulate it legally, to gain time distance and probably find some new ways in that distance. Mr. Vladan Batic supports this by bringing us into Europe. Then the Hague road goes further to the institution, which is recognised in the world as a court against Serbs and the Serb people. Mr. Batic's manner in The Hague has disgraced the Serbian people. History will give its judgment on that. Why does Vladan Batic go to The Hague when he is familiar with the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia - that a Yugoslav citizen cannot be deprived of citizenship, expelled from the country, or extradited to anyone or to The Hague tribunal. There's a lot of negative manners that I can't even present myself with these exhibits. I have to name one, and that's carrying long or some other pipes, I mean a hekler, in a fireman. Is that how a minister and our government are supposed to be defended by heclerians? There's no justice, Minister, nothing. The goal of our enemies, who bombed us, is to condemn our leaders, our leaders, our leaders, our entire people. That's when the historical patin falls on the villains, and the victims of the Serbs remain guilty for centuries. That's where you, Mr. Batic, are most helpful in your statements and manner of action as our minister. As far as the war crimes trial is concerned, it would be time for everyone who attacked our country to be tried, if they were arrested under that international law. But how can you do that when you're not defending the interests of our people, but there's no one who knows who and who knows what. I'll just list a few statements: "Blic", February 13, 2001; "Blic", February 18, 2001, interview Vladan Batic -- "We'll Judge War Criminals", "The Voice of the Public", March 11, 2001. "The accused will surrender to The Hague," etc., etc. So Vladan Batic is really and quality co-operates with this institution. To make co-operation with The Hague transparent, Vladan Batic conducts some previous talks with the defendants in Serbia, to convince them that they will voluntarily agree to go to The Hague - go people will be better for you, and everything in manner - I know nothing about it. Those voluntary lectures are probably being held there on his credit card, you know, a radio man democratically. He must justify the funds invested in his political creation by foreign mentors. We will see, as MPs and as a people, that Vladan Batic will arrest and deliver everyone on those lists already recorded and who will be recorded during these processes. The arrest of these people has already been prepared and is being carried out with the worst personnel whose type of work is not a sea. I remember Mr Batic's statement that when the assembly was burned, two curtains were burned. It is the minimisation of some, for the common people, for the Serbian people of great historical injustices. With long pipes and a special crew, Mr Batic came to Galenika as well. The threat by Minister Batic gives judges and courts a picture in society to stand by and wait for something. Now, that's something judges in courts know. Because he deals with The Hague and does not deal with our problems, he is more concerned with all other problems. Municipal courts now owe on various grounds of the million-digit figure. The situation in the courts is catastrophic. Yesterday at the Belgrade Court of Justice for a situation like this, where the minister was the most responsible, there was a shooting. How can this happen in such an institution as the Court of Justice? Our people say, "If something works, the bird can't fly over it," not to bring a weapon into the courtroom and still shoot in the hallway. The reason for all of this is the unsettled relationship in the judiciary, so no one wants to do this security business, because of the low wages and everything that's related to it. It would have been better if Vladan Batic had devoted his ministerial share to such affairs than he does by making various false statements. Vladan Batic spent more hours in The Hague than here in the Assembly Hall. The judges live in a phase of some expectation. Commercial courts are in some, call, parloga, no personnel, no one will work in these conditions stemming from the resolution ministry. He doesn't have time to deal with wages and material costs right now. The local self-government system is now in the country of Serbia below any criticism. It's never been worse. Everywhere the DOS is in power, there's now a mass key and there's not a single decision that can be combined without a problem. I know the municipalities in Srem are in very difficult condition. My Irig municipality wasn't built until a few days ago, and that's more than eight months. And what would she do when it's a small and poor municipality where the ministry and the minister don't see the interests of solving this issue? How long will the citizens wait? And in these municipalities that are dissatisfied with this resolute ministry, people wonder if it's the promised organisation and the funds that need to settle the municipal budgets. It's not going to happen, and it's going to be recorded in various ways soon. And for that, the ministry is in charge of Mr. Vladan Batic. There are various pressures on municipalities by DOS, where someone else who isn't DOS is in power. Signs are being collected to go to emergency elections and who knows what else is being done there, and it is being done to strengthen Mr. Vladan Batic and his party. Vladan Batic, on the Galenika case, confirmed in the most impressive way how he respected the regulations. It is not foreign to him that his organized gangs of criminals represent as being police officers and benefiting from the threat and force to achieve their own interests. It is only strange that, immediately after the violent conquest of Galenika, no one from the interior ministry today called for the responsibility of Batic and his armed gang. Whether a man is prone to violence and self-government can bring order and law to a choice for the minister of justice and local self-government. They made a terrible mistake. With that election, he was surrounded, confirmed that violence and self-government would be a recognizable and striking style of work by this government. For these 27 working days in the Assembly, Justice Minister Vladan Batic was three times and always came with the intention of extracting certain irregularities from some of the Serbian Radical Party's files in the previous government. We've seen all his gaffs. His face is full of bitterness and hatred. (President: Time. ) Nothing else he knows but to throw moldy raids into a historical wheel. The situation these last days is about Mr. Vuk Obradovic, and there is where Batic mixed his fingers. You know everything Vuk Obradovic does and what he's given the task. Among other things, to solve Galenika. Now, you can't just get rid of Galenika because Batic Panic is a legal representative. It is only one segment in the whole series to be solved, and justice is in Batic's hands. So now justice has been transferred to the affair and let the people have a little bit of that gnaw bone. Vladan Batic is the first to have TV broadcasts removed from the assembly. Why does he have a problem with these transmissions? I suggest that this assembly vote the mistrust of the Minister of Justice to Vlad's brother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7673	The word has a folk MP Mirko Petrovic, and the next reported for discussion is MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7674	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS proposal contains notable untrues, claims that cannot be supported by evidence, accusations of issues that have not been resolved and things that have not happened. That is how the proposal accuses the UN tribunal's competent minister of co-operation with The Hague. I would remind you all here very well, that this is a commitment taken by the new government from the old government, that then Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic, including the Dayton Agreement, has established a provision that guarantees and co-operation with The Hague tribunal by our country. So I'd remind you all here, the new government has just tried to make that situation, that encountered commitment to regulate. This issue is not even in the jurisdiction of this Parliament, nor is it in the jurisdiction of the Republic Government, nor is it in the jurisdiction of a minister. The issue is in the jurisdiction of the federal government and the federal parliament, and only in a few days should a new law on co-operation be passed with The Hague tribunal, which will be discussed in front of the federal parliament. Mr Batic is being accused, as well as the new government, of allegedly organising gangs aimed at kidnapping the person for which The Hague tribunal issued warrants. What is the proof of one such claim, beware, of one such difficult and serious claim? The evidence is an anonymous member of the SRS. The proof of one such claim is an anonymous source which is a member of the proposing party. This speaks much more of the indemnity and irresponsibility of those who refer to the proposal in this way than of the one to whom the proposal is intended. Mr Batic is accused of organising judicial political proceedings in a country where no indictments have been filed so far or any court rulings have been made, that it could be claimed that the verdict was not brought on the basis of evidence of a court case, but on the political will of the new authorities. I would remind you all well here, that for the past four years, the SRS has never applied for a non-confidential statement to the Minister of the Interior at the time, even though there were several hundred unexposed murders in the country. You've been with them since 1997 in power. Although he was in the country while you were in power, there were several hundred unexposed murders, although he was killed. Minister of Interior of the Republic of Serbia, though a federal defence minister was killed. Proposers accuse the competent minister of imposing emergency measures in certain municipalities where Socialists are in power. It is thus cited as an example of Ub municipality. As far as I know, there are no forced measures on Ubbe. There are no forced measures, which means the municipality claimed to have temporary measures is listed. Proposers claim that temporary measures are being prepared in some municipalities, such as Lykovac. I would remind you all well at the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that in those situations where a session of the municipal assembly has not been convened for more than three months, but to make the matter even more serious, it is a bill adopted by the previous parliament, which is precisely on the proposal of the SRS. The Serbian Radical Party was the legislator of the law in the previous assembly of parliament, which made one such commitment. Let me finally say something here that I think is essential. The Serbian Radical Party's proposal is a political maneuver to score political points in the public, to gain some political publicity and to forget the role in the past, in the past few years of the Serbian Radical Party. The essence of this proposal is for the Serbian Radical Party to be presented as an alternative to the new government. However, whenever it was necessary to choose between loyalty to national ideas and the national programme and participation in Milosevic's authority, the Serbian Radical Party chose this second. After the surrender of the Western Slavonia by the Milosevic regime to Tudjman Croatia, following the surrender of the Republika Srpska Krajina by Milosevic's regime to Tudjman's Croatia, following the surrender of parts of the western Bosnian Croats by Milosevic's regime, following the heavy suffering of our countrymen after the signing of the Dayton Agreement, which limited the statehood of Republika Srpska and established the obligation to co-operate with The Hague tribunal, the Serbian Radical Party entered into a coalition with those who until that day called the greatest criminals and the biggest traitors in the history of the Serb people. The Serbian Radical Party has entered the coalition with one who has never set foot in our church, with one who has never visited any refugee camp, with one who has never visited any wounded or sick, with one for whom the only ideal in politics was power and its preservation. In this way, the Serbian Radical Party has become an ordinary instrument of Milosevic's policy, whose results are naturally tragic by the interest of the Serb people. Over 50,000 square kilometres of territory, the size of Belgium and the Netherlands combined, have been lost, a million refugees in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7675	Mr. Petrovic, today is not on the agenda of a proposal to vote non-confidential to the Serbian Radical Party. It ended in December of the month, and today it is on the agenda of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7676	I don't know how long you've been following me since the beginning. I was saying what the essence of this proposal is, and the essence of this proposal is to present myself as an alternative to one policy in national and state terms. I've cited arguments from the past that disprove such an essence of the proposal and that in the end, by making these arguments, I'm saying, it seems like the proposers of these tragic facts that I've presented are not interested. Instead of reviewing their responsibility, they recognise part of their responsibility for what has been done and reviewing that and such a policy, the promoters accuse Minister Batic of things they cannot prove and of issues that have not been resolved.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7677	Replica, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7678	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, Mr. Petrovic invented many things, literally lied. Namely, here you are now telling me how true it is. When was it the Serbian Radical Party in 1997 in a coalition with the SPS? That's not true. Everything you said about the Serbian Radical Party and the national interests is incorrect. It is true that we want to introduce ourselves as an alternative to the regime, because it is the work of the opposition. You're not gonna tell us that, are you? You will not forbid us to be those who will be your political opponents or wish there were no political opponents at all, to be those who will rule for ever and who will never have an opposition or choose an opposition. You're talking about whether someone entered the coalition with Milosevic or not, whether they entered the church or not. Well, your honorary president is a member of Mun's cult, and you're talking about the church. I am married in a church, baptized in church at birth, baptized my son in church, and where Milan Panic, your honorary president, was baptized, where Zoran Djindjic was baptized as Prime Minister, while you are already talking about the Church, when you are already talking about the Fortress monastery, and unlike you who know nothing about it. As for national interests and the UN tribunal, the Serbian Radical Party has never accepted anything about The Hague tribunal, never anywhere. The Dayton Peace Agreement reads a sentence on co-operation with The Hague tribunal, not the extradition of our citizens, but against the Dayton Agreement was the Serbian Radical Party, not the Dayton Agreement, and you are telling us that we do not have the right to talk about who will and how to co-operate with The Hague tribunal, because we are talking about the delivery of Milomir Stakic, Blago Simic and some others. That's the question. You're saying the federal government needs to deal with this issue. It is true, but Minister Batic in "Blica" since 13 February 2001 says -- Zoran Zizic is not authorized to decide who will be extradited to The Hague tribunal and who will not, Serbian Parliament said yesterday in Vladan Batic, a republican justice minister. Who, then, is in charge, if it isn't the federal administration that will propose a bill to the federal parliament on the UN tribunal? Anybody else want some? Would you like that, Mr. Petrovic, or would you like someone third to come out again and suggest that? (President: Time. ) Of course and we will always try and try to say what we think, what's most important, what's best, what we think is best for our political party. Whether you like it or don't like it is another thing, but don't deny it to us, don't take away our right to a political fight, don't take away our right to a different political position. The hatred you show and the impatience...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7679	Mr. Wolfie, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7680	I'm finishing up, but don't let the secretary wave his hands. This is the tenth time I've seen a secretary wave his hands and threaten someone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7681	He's got ticks.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7682	Is that what his ticks are? It really doesn't make sense. I end up in one sentence, but I really have to point out the incredible behavior of the secretary of the assembly and it's not the first time, but I accidentally turned around, so I saw them waving their hands. I'd just like to say one more sentence. It's true that we were guilty and we couldn't do anything else at that point, so we were in a coalition with the Socialists and we were guilty, the people punished us, but our biggest fault is that we allowed you to win, that we allowed you to gain the trust of the people. It's our fault to the sky, and the people will never forgive us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7683	There's more replicas? If we can at least, this is a replica regarding the birth certificate, that all MPs bring the christenings from the church and close that debate. Mr. Ivkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7684	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is very interesting for us Socialists to observe the duels where someone is accusing himself of being with the Socialist Party of Serbia in the coalition, where someone is defending himself again, as if there are lepers sitting in that Socialist Party of Serbia. I must tell you, in the Socialist Party of Serbia, Serbia are, above all, smart and beautiful, women and men and do their job very well and do it better and better, by making their mistakes clear and not repeating them again. To go back to that 1997 and 1998. In 1997, there was a massacre at a Panda cafe in Peca. Six young people of Serbian nationality between 15 and 17 years of age were killed. It was clear that the old US administration would not tolerate the co-operation of Southeast European countries that have decided to lift customs burdens, and an independent solution to problems between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Albania. It was clear and there were enough signals from the field that they were preparing through the drug mafia the Leninist-Marxist KLA and training them to finish the job, Madeleine, Schroeder and others who have harassed this people this much. Then, and that is the value of both the SRS and the SPS, a coalition is made on the national plan. We are completely politically different, we have different approaches in many things, but the national story was decisive. Come on, let's get this over with, 'cause fighting the terrorists you're beating now are extremists, that was the key thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7685	The word has Vladan Batic, the minister of justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7686	Ladies and gentlemen, just a few solutions, here is also the proposal submitted in writing to the MPs of the National Assembly and today's exhibitions, mentioned on several occasions that I have ties to the UN tribunal's voluntary surrender to the Hague tribunal, Blago Simic, or to the extradition of The Hague tribunal, Milomir Stakic. Of course, once again one of the lies and again I have to call on Nikolai Velimirovic -- when a liar thinks he's at the height of his success, that's when he's actually standing at the edge of his doom. Think carefully, you who are drilling into Serbian patriotic breasts, about these words by Nikola Velimirovic. So, I met Blagoj Simic in 1994, there was a war, we were on the corridor, bombs were dropping around and I didn't see him, and I didn't even know he lived in Belgrade. Otherwise, it's an extremely nice man, one true gentleman and a great patriot. I met him when I was in Seveningen, I was there with Momcila Krajisnik and Biljana Plavsic and with several other people who unfortunately are there. The man is absolutely, without any pressure... You know, sometimes people have nightmares, they worry and they hardly survive at a time when they're persecuted. They want that ballast off of themselves. Exactly, there's some moral dilemma and this nightmare he told me in Seveningen Blagoje Simic and you can consult people from his family and friends. I, not if I hadn't seen him and put any pressure on him, no one was doing it from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As for Milomir Stakic, simply the MUP made an arrest and I learned about it from the lawyer Igor Pantelic, who contacted me and said he would be one of Mr. Milomir Stakic's defenders who was arrested and would represent him in The Hague. He asked me about American lawyers defending Biljana Plavsic, and that's when I just found out. Like, believe it or not, when Mr. Milosevic was arrested, or on the first night of March 30th, I was here at the assembly pay phone when Mr. Ivkovic mentioned it. Really, I have to tell you, what does it matter, a little attention please, the Department of Justice with a pre-criminal procedure? What does the Department of Justice have to do with criminal proceedings? Police act in a precipice procedure, judicial authorities act in criminal proceedings. The minister of justice has no authority, on either side, nor any of my roles, except the observer in the whole story, either. Furthermore, criminals have been mentioned. Apparently, I gather criminals. Gentlemen, don't open the crime story, if we open the crime story, then we'll stay here for a few days. Criminals from the Serbian Radical Party, which you promoted in the past government as ministers. You've had a man who's been in prison six times. He was a minister. He was responsible for heavy robbery and spent six years in prison. For six years, your minister has been in prison. Two more of your ministers were in prison. You can take the reports from the criminal records. Now, don't make that a point. You're talking about guns. Here's who waved guns and who's known for waving guns and taxi drivers, and in front of students, both in front of professors and in front of the whole world. We'll talk about rusty spoons next time. As much as you like guns, here's a decision by the board of directors of the Earth Informor Public Enterprise on the purchase and gift of weapons. Normal parties and the normal world give their responsible workers something else, and the SRS gives away weapons. One more thing, business space was mentioned. Some kind of business space somewhere in southern Serbia. When you mention, gentlemen, business space, remember the long-term lease contract used by your party, the magistrate in Zemun. Contract, certified, here he is in front of the public, in front of the cameras, for 30 years. It is 2,153 m2 on a long-term lease of 30 years, i.e. 1. 356,919 dinars, or in the translation of 1,75 dinars per month per square metre. That's how you used the business space. You wanted to buy him out. You sent a letter, chairman of the Executive Board SO Zemun, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and you wanted to buy the same space for 8.5 million dinars, which is 3,769 dinars per square metre, which is five or ten times lower than the commercial prices.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7687	Replica, Mr. Nikolic, and then we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7688	First of all, about business space, don't lie, Mr. Batic. The contract is fully valid in accordance with the law and decision of the City Assembly. The price in the contract is fully in line with the prices for all political parties, and the fact that it is 30 years old, ask President Djindjic how his party holds the party's 20-year room on Proleter Brigade Street. It is lawfully allowed, and if it were not allowed by law, Djindjic would not have done it for his party. We just saw it from the Democratic Party. If you have objections because the prime minister obviously ignores you today and does not even give you symbolic support with his presence here, you give it to him. You are here alone today, and it is obvious that no minister feels the desire to help you with his presence today. (Vladan Batić, from the scene: I'm having fun with you. I'm worth a lot more than you. Your relationship with the MPs of the people is sufficient for the other messengers. Shut up, man. What's the matter with you? What did we hear here? That the minister hates an ex-SRS minister just because he's a Roma, and you were talking about Minister Roma, a minister who had some kind of offense before he joined the party. That is what you believe, Minister Batic, whom no one in Serbia trusts anymore, a word he says. Read that record, then come with clear evidence of what it's all about. You feel guilty, Mr. Batic, that you can't load us anymore that we're fascists. We didn't. The only Minister of Roma was a Serbian radical. The only vice-president of the Bulgarian Assembly was the Serbian Radical, the only MP in the Serbian parties, Hungarian at the time, was our Elvira Fekete. They're facts and they're evidence. Everything else is stories for little kids. I hear here there's talk now about how the size of your authority is in that there's not a single indictment and there's not been a single verdict since you came to power. That's why you need to be relieved, because people have been in jail for two or three months, and there's no charges or arrests. You know how a procedure is conducted when you arrest someone. It's an emergency. It's all about letting that man go home as soon as possible or being charged. And you keep people in prison for months, some on the verge of death. Whether because you're bringing them into that state or because by hunger strike they bring themselves into that state, think about it. They'll both be on your soul, Mr. Minister. We're told here by some that we were in power when Bajja was killed. They have no idea. They're talking. And that's the story of the man I saw yesterday at the federal government session. There's no function in the federal government. (President: Time. You take pictures, you show yourself. We never want you to forget that we were in the government of the Republic of Serbia. And we are not ashamed of any of our moves during our time in the Serbian government, and we will always point out that we were in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. At that time, when it was most difficult to be in the government of Serbia, when we were able to score points and attack whoever was in power, when we could kiss the hand of Solana and the rest of them, we entered the government to, together with Serbia, according to a referendum held in the Republic of Serbia, war against the NATO Pact. That's when you fought the NATO Pact, but it's nice in opposition, war, war, war. Now you've come to power and now there's no war on Serbian territory (votes - no more), now you want to make out with Solana whom you yourself have condemned, as soon as you've written a criminal report. It's a double morale. We don't have it. We're the way we are. That's why you'll be replaced. That's why those who don't vote today that you're being replaced have replaced you in their heads. They're only putting you in there because you're being put into DOS, like some kind of parasite, otherwise the Democratic Party would go with you... (President: Mr. Nikolic...) ) And the Democratic Party of Serbia, you were in both of them, so you left them for leadership ambitions. We could see that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7689	This came off in the end. We'll continue at 15 hours and 30 minutes. [[After break - 16.05 lessons]] Please establish a quorum so we can continue our work. We have a quorum. He has the word National MP Zarko Obradovic, and let him prepare Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7691	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable President, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, I believe it is necessary to vote for the mistrust of the Justice and Local Self-Government Minister, Mr. Vladan Batic, because of the objective and subjective responsibility for the overall state of justice in Serbia and local self-government, where in the past 100 and a few days in 17 municipalities a forced administration was introduced, mainly in municipalities where the SPS itself or in a coalition with JUL formed local authority. With his act and inaction, arbitrary, unprofessional statements, unexpected, Mr. Minister has helped the judiciary lose the epithet of an independent, professional, law, law and justice-based authority, to conduct judicial proceedings and the constant influence of the highest representatives of the Republic of Serbia government including the minister through statements, comments and assessments, and to have the judiciary in office of the current government. The situation in the judiciary is bad and the minister in charge is responsible. The assessment of the situation in the judiciary and the involvement or responsibility of Mr. Minister confirms the following facts. Under one, Mr. Minister's involvement in the election of leaders in the judiciary and the prosecution, past the competent bodies that declare personal changes in the judiciary and beyond the court criteria. The stance confirms a statement by one of the former judges, Mr Todorovic, published in the February daily press this year. Under two, Minister Batic allowed himself to assess one court decision. The Belgrade District Court's verdict, a group of 14 top NATO representatives, Western countries, has been discussed since 21 September 2000. the year they were sentenced to 20 years in prison for war crimes committed against the civilian population during the aggression against the SRJ and for the use of forbidden weapons during the bombing of our country. No one, not even the minister of justice, can comment on the court's decision or anything to say about the case. Only the public prosecutor, accused, so parties in the proceedings and defenders can talk about a concrete court ruling. The Supreme Court, and within the framework of the appeal, can consider, comment on the case. And that's within the grounds of appeal. Under three, the justice minister advocated co-operation with The Hague tribunal and its prosecutor long before the issue was even obtained by any legal form, trying unsuccessfully to find the basis for its views in the Constitution and laws, thereby practically taking over the jurisdiction of the federal state. When it comes to the Dayton Agreement, I must remind you that the agreement provides that foreign signatories will cooperate with each other in the pursuit of war criminals. Nothing is disputed because national legislation is meant, not the UN tribunal. Four, while attempting to kidnap the president of the SPS, the former president of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic, on the night between March 30th and 31st, by unknown, armed people dressed in jeans, leather jackets, with socks over their faces, the justice minister informed the public with an incorrect statement that it was a guard shift, i.e. That nothing unusual is happening. Fifth, the situation in the judiciary, unsettled, unprofessional, politically colored, also confirms the attitude towards a request to conduct an investigation against the MP, our colleague Branislav Ivkovic. Namely, the Administrative Board, which first decided whether a criminal case against the MP was approved, did not have more facts, or asked, at least one number of MPs, of the investigating judge to get a detailed understanding of the contents of the case. The board couldn't get the content of a criminal report to make a more complete decision. The board did not receive that criminal report, but all the daily presses did, several days after the Administrative Board, more precisely on Friday 13 April of the current year. We, members of the Administrative Board, received from an investigative judge a memo informing us that no one, nor the National Assembly, including us, can dispose of the case. Subject content is published in the daily press. The investigating judge informs us that this information does not stem from the Belgrade District Court, but from sources unknown to this court, and their statement and publication is contrary to the cited provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. There, it's a real picture of the situation in Serbia's judiciary today. Next, for the state of Serbia's local self-government, and therefore responsibility, the minister of justice and local self-government is double. It's for act and incendiary. In both cases, contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government. In both cases, both by act and inaction, Mr Batic was exclusively guided by political reasons, and his actions and inaction have produced consequences that undermined the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in local self-government. Forced administration was introduced in 17 municipalities, a local self-government unit in just 100 days of current authorities. In three municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija and 14 other municipalities, so in: Bosilegrad, Batocina, Lajkovac, Zubin Potok, Zvecan, Leposavic, Leban, Beli Palanca, Irig, Knjižvac, Kladov, Aleksinac, Titell, Negotina, Majdanpek and Čević. The comparisons work, for those who congratulate, all previous Socialist governments in 10 years introduced a forced administration in 6 municipalities, Obrenovac, Novi Pazar, Stari Grad. To remind those who probably don't remember, because if they remembered they wouldn't mention it, the municipal council for the municipality of Stari Grad was formed at the request of the then-president of the municipality, otherwise a member of the SPO, Mr. Kazic. Then, in municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, forced administration was introduced only in those municipalities where there were not enough council members, because the Albanian national minority did not want to participate in the local government. Forced administration is formed in these 17 municipalities on the basis of two legal bases, Articles 159 and 213 paragraphs 1 and 2. Law on local self-government. How the ministry worked and why the minister was responsible show the best two examples. The introduction of a forced administration in these two municipalities, of the 17th, is the first example of Titus and the second is Kladovo. In Titell, the committee relationship was SPS and JUL - 14, DOS - 10, SRS - one, a total of 25. According to information obtained from local self-government, the assembly was formed and established on 16 October 2000. The president of the municipality has been elected. There were two candidates. One SPS, another DOS. The first one got 14 votes, the second one got the rest. The vice president has been elected. He got 24 votes from all the councilmen. For the past 6-7 months, 10 sessions of SO have been held to discuss all the issues that local self-government is dealing with. I mention this because it is a formal legal basis for the introduction of a forced administration in that municipality. In 159, which speaks - if elections are not held in the municipality or after the elections have been held, the assembly shall not be established within 60 days of the day of the election. These data absolutely confirms the condition. The second example is the Kladovo municipality. There the committee relationship was this: SPS, JUL - 35, DOS - four, SPO-one. Forced administration is established on the basis of Article 213(1) and (2) which speak of the fact that local self-government does not carry out operations for more than three months or in a way that threatens the constitutional and legal rights of citizens. The government will warn the local self-government unit's assembly and ask for measures to be taken to address the perceived shortcomings. For those of you who don't know, that's where the crisis headquarters was formed. Certain requirements have been made for local self-government. The local self-government held the session, said of the allegations, and after a few days the main people of the municipality informed the National Assembly president and asked the minister to take certain measures, probably not counting on the introduction of a forced administration, because there was no place for it. Given the short time, aside from taking these measures, the minister has not taken steps to address the local self-government issue, two of the most drastic examples - Ub and Dimitrovgrad. The Ministry of Justice has remained silent on this violence and lawlessness. Of course, we informed the authorities, including the minister himself and all other institutions of the Republic of Serbia, and there was no answer on their part. We will also inform the OSCE, to see how the local self-government in Serbia works and how the democratic government changes the election will of citizens and introduces a forced administration at the local level. Because of all these things, legal and physical violence in local self-government and the state of justice, the minister should not be removed at all, he should resign, and the government of the Republic of Serbia should be based on Article 126. A law on local self-government to propose calling emergency local elections due to a violent change in the electoral will of citizens in that number of municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7692	There is a word from MP Dusan Ilic (in the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7693	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, as an MP from the Municipality of Stara Paz, I feel offended by members of 96, and I demand that the Assembly be heard. The previous speaker forgot to state one fact - he was talking about forced administrations.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7694	Well, there's no replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7695	Simply, my predecessor forgot to say that in 1993, the previous Socialist government introduced a forced administration in the municipality of Stara Pazova, which lasted 3 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7696	I didn't give you a word for the line, I warn you. I give you a warning, this doesn't make sense. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7697	Dear President, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, this assembly or rather the parliamentary majority, made by the DOS coalition, made the biggest mistake, I will not say historicly, because one day history will prove or deny it, when it elected Mr. Batic as justice minister and local self-government. If we had heard a little more then and had kept the solution so far, that there were two ministries, especially the Ministry of Justice, and especially the Ministry of Local Self-Government, perhaps at least one ministry would have preserved the minister as Mr Batic is. Because immediately after the election, Minister Batic began in his work to violate the Constitution and the law and that the minister's duties were carried out irresponsiblely and unconsciously. As justice minister, he calls for his justice and daily visits courts and judges, presses and threatens to resolve. And with the President-in-Office of the Court, there's a special story. Because they are being replaced by the order of Mr Batic, disobeying the legal procedure to examine the responsibility of these judges. I wonder, when Mr. Batic treats his colleagues like that, people of reputation, title and knowledge, what happens to ordinary people, not to ordinary mortals? There's nothing from an independent judiciary. There are only forced administrations in the courts, with a forced manager, as the presidents of the court should be called since Batic's arrival in power. We have politically similar judges, and with such judges there will be only political processes in the future, which Mr Batic announces from day to day. Over the past few months, we have mounted judicial, political processes, and the most impressive example is the arrest and judicial process that is being conducted towards our president, Slobodan Milosevic, whom you are holding in prison even though in Serbia and the world there are demands that Milosevic defend himself from freedom. Many can envy the so-mounted political process Batic. In a democratic state, where there is political pluralism, there are people in prisons whose only mistake is belonging to another party. As for the ministry or the works of the Ministry of Local Self-Government, it is already Mr Batic's specialty. Batic is the organizer of crisis headquarters, he admits it publicly, as the motion for resolution says, in order to replace, by means of bulldozer methodology, the elected power. This has been done so far in 17 municipalities, and I don't know how long other municipalities will be legally and legitimately elected by the people in the elections on 24 September. But what the people know, Batic says, and followed by the forced administration that Batic will propose, and the government must comply because it is proposed by Mr Batic. Who defends the electoral will of citizens at local level is a dilettante, because he is not aware of what awaits him in the future. He's threatened to lose his job or be arrested. Mr Batic obliges the people's will, will and results of the local elections. Your victory in the 1996 elections was confirmed by a European Commission, headed by Gonzales. And who will confirm our legitimacy? Do we have to look for someone on the side to respect the will of the people? We don't need anyone on the side, just stop the crisis headquarters that create unrest, block the work of local self-government and fail, as it was in Leban and Kladov. By the will of the citizens of 24 September in the municipality of Blace, the electoral list of SPS - JUL received the majority, and by the will of the citizens, in a legal manner, the Assembly of the Municipality was established, the executive body, subcommittee and elected authorities began to exercise power in the interests of the people. Five months later, the Ministry of Justice and local self-government came to believe that the president of the municipality was not elected in a legitimate manner and that the president was resolved, pressured by the council. There's been a formation of DOS authorities, without the will of the citizens. You claim that the will of the citizens has changed. Only elections can show that. Does anyone think he meant it, or did he change his mind, or does he have his own attitude? This country is ruled by the opinion coming from the justice ministry and local self-government. Here's a concrete example - SO Kurzumli was sent to the Ministry of Justice and local self-government for interpretation of Article 152, paragraph 1 point 1 and point 2. The Law on Local Self-Government, where an interpretation is sought - whether the committee can withdraw its resignation, until the day of the session of SO, when it is determined that his mandate has ceased, given that several committee members have resigned, and the two committees have withdrawn their resignations before holding the assembly, so in that sense we ask you to provide us with an interpretation of the abovementioned member of the Law on Local Self-Government. On 14 March 2001, the Ministry of Justice and Local Self-Government delivered the opinion that it is not possible to withdraw the resignation, following its submission. We're looking for an interpretation, not an opinion. Because of that opinion, a forced administration will also be introduced in Kursumlia. I truly accept that resignation is a personal act, but I also believe that the withdrawal of resignation before it is verified, or, before it is established that resignation is also a personal act. Why take away someone's right to withdraw their resignation, does anyone in all other segments of society have the right to resign, and only the council members in municipalities where the Socialists are in power have no right to resign? But it's "democracy." I wonder -- what happens next? And because of that -- what will be further, or better said -- what awaits us in the future, I believe that the mistrust of Minister Batic should be voted out, in the interest of justice for all Serbian citizens. And finally, in one part of the exhibition, I wondered -- what would happen to ordinary people or ordinary mortals in this society, where Minister Batic is, and I remembered -- our man respects the host, and he fears God. You, Mr. Batic, although you often refer to God, you are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7698	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7699	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think the Assembly should have put this item on the agenda for today's session, because I think Mr Batic, as an honorable and honest man, should resign after so much evidence of unconscious and irresponsible work at the place of justice and local self-government. However, I think that the great courage of the Presidency of the Assembly is, and personally, the president, which put this point on the agenda, because today many truths will be heard here that could never be heard in other spaces. I'm not talking about private life, I'm not talking about hackers, I'm not talking about crisis headquarters, I'm not talking about breaking into factories, it's not my style, and it's a lot of hearing about it. I will try to say something directly about the work Mr Batic has been doing for a long time, formally since the government's election, and before that, since 5 October informally. The one thing that I think here is that nothing has been denied is a number of statements, hundreds of statements by Mr Batic on various media, which we need to know are under DOS control, means that some media are not the opposition, so they write what they're not. Hundreds of statements made by Mr Batic in every European country would be enough for the minister of justice to no longer be a minister the next day. We remember what it said -- the minister was arrested, the minister announced arrests, the minister was on trial, the minister was doing everything that the minister in no country of Europe, which we seek and strive for, could not afford. That's how it is, and it's an impenetrable fact. It's only one sin, when it comes to the press. The minister introduced a virus into the Serbian government, which was spoken of by the president of our parliamentary group Bane Ivkovic, but I will repeat something, he introduced a virus that after the minister of justice and all the other ministers began to arrest. Every day when you open a newspaper, you have a story from the finance minister who, instead of telling the people why he introduced unsustainable taxes on everyone except the air, a story about the purposeless spending of the budget, and that he was not taught by Minister Batic that the books under the law had to be delivered to those to whom they were concerned and that they submitted their applications within seven days. The Minister of Health, instead of talking about why the drugs have collected multiple times and why they're not there, is talking about the crime in health care. Even the building minister, instead of talking about why the new government didn't make at least some turkey, some bridge, some bridge, why it didn't make some gas pipeline or plumbing, and he's starting to arrest. I think that only this analysis of public appearances is sufficient for an honorary minister of justice to resign, or for his government and his MPs to be removed. Another very important thing, which in some time we do not remember, which was very present at the head of the Justice Ministry by the arrival of Minister Batic, is the persecution of political inexperience. My opinion is that the head of the team doing this stands the minister of justice. Why? I don't mean without facts. After his every appearance in the paper, it's like when in some countries, I don't want to mention them, announcing a death sentence. After each performance, he called on whoever was to be arrested, starting with Dragoljub Milanovic, and then through the president of our Milosevic party, Šuvakovic, he launched an action against the head of our parliamentary group Banet Ivkovic. So, every arrest preceded a performance in the media of Minister Batic. These are facts and can be easily determined, the people closely follow it. In addition, I think Minister Batic may have been tasked by the DOS government to throw dust into the eyes, to keep talking about criminals, toss in the shadow of some other thing, which is a sudden deterioration of life in Serbia, and that what does not seem to replace the story of thieves. He's trying to create a picture of how in opposition all the thieves, so radicals, socialists and others, and on the other hand all the lambs, the good babies, all the honest people. The people of Serbia are political enough. Just one little signal is enough. After the end of the Commission's work on identifying abuses, when it was clear who was on which side and who was on which list, Vuk Obradovic was immediately removed. We'll ask for that report to come to the Assembly as soon as possible. We will even look for a assembly commission that will establish the list of the 2,000 richest Yugoslavs, so that the people of Serbia can see who is where. We'll ask for it to be done first with the MPs. As far as I can tell, the opposition MPs don't have two suits, and it would be nice for the people to see through the official report, not just through stories, who's where. The third very dangerous thing Minister Batic is doing, gentlemen, is politicizing the judiciary, what he has done and what he is just preparing. People wonder why there's no change in the judiciary. For days, the DOS personnel commissions are being held in Serbia to determine who will be the prosecutor, who will be the judge's president, who will perform his duties in the judiciary day and day from town to city. Open up the paper, they're clearly writing about it. So, the judges haven't changed because the big DOS conflicts are about who's going to be the judge or prosecutor from. The fourth thing, least important, is the annulment of democratic fluids that we have so-so managed to "fill" for the past ten years, and the achievements are not small. We had democracy and we had choices. You were the one who brought Gonzales in when you were muttering the election results, and today we are witnessing the introduction of temporary measures into 17 municipalities. It's a naive story from Ceda Jovanovic that it's a member of that law and that law. Gentlemen, the people are not naive. This is the story of the poison invented by the Ship's Separatists, the poison that poisons only the Ship's Separatists. If only you had introduced emergency management into some three municipalities where DOS is in power, someone might believe you. How is it that only in municipalities where socialists are in power doesn't all go well, or even where there are 30 councilors out of 31? What poses an even greater danger than this technical part of introducing measures? A greater danger is what precedes it. Mr Batic, in several jeeps, sends emissaries on various sides, and he himself, we have people's statements, threatens people, blackmails people, where they should and pays them to withdraw their bids. You have an abnormal situation - the vice president of Kursumlia Municipality, the man with whom it is the only bread, withdraws the parliamentary candidacy and creates a crisis in the Assembly. That, gentlemen, is what the fact is. As I consider myself a very constructive MP, I will vote against Mr Batic's shift if Mr Batic, as a pious man, comes out for this pay phone and tells the people of Serbia in a simple Serbian language, not to talk about patriotism and things that are quite relative, but to look, as a pious man, into the eyes of the Serbian citizen and to tell them that he was not making statements in the paper, that the newspaper invented those statements or that it should be said that a minister should do so. So he has a choice-- either he didn't make statements or that he should, or that it was his mission in front of the government when it comes to it. Secondly, to look the people in the eyes and say they are not at the head of political persecution in Serbia. Third, to tell Serbian citizens that it is not true that DOS personnel commissions are sitting in cities to discuss who will be the judge, who will be the prosecutor, who will perform the judicial functions. Let him tell the citizens, and the citizens know in every environment, from the Fireman to the Saturday and Vranj, what to do. Let Serbia's citizens know that it is not true that they are being blackmailed, bought and forced in various ways by the Socialist Party and the JUL's boards, as well as by radicals and others, to withdraw their bids in municipalities and cause a crisis in municipalities. Let him say that no temporary measures have been imposed, that no electoral will has been annulled, and I expect some NGOs, such as the Center for Democracy and others, whose mouth was full of democracy about the much smaller problems that occurred in the earlier period. If Mr Batic as a pious man says all this and looks into the eyes of the Serbian citizen, here, I declare - I will vote against his impeachment, although I am a member of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7700	The word is Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, and then Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7701	Mr. President, I ask you to use my right to reply, since I was mentioned in the presentation of fellow Members, who tried to interpret what I said. So, for the DOS parliamentary group, this is not a debate about Mr Batic, but about our honesty in defining the framework and the very essence of the rule of law. Can we agree that this parliament is a picture of the society in which we live? Famished, unmoved, patriots, traitors, educated, uneducated, repeaters, doctors of science, is that the image of Serbia we live in today? In this House, you will find no example of discrimination against the opposition MPs by the ruling majority. You won't find a single example. You'll find points where there were misunderstandings. These misunderstandings, for example, stemmed from a single insistence, specifically the Serbian Radical Party, which sought respect for its principle that we could not agree to because of the circumstances in which it demanded it. Finally, one such situation caused the fact that today we have the fifth vice-presidential chair, which has been vacant because radicals do not agree with such a thing, as well as a number of vacant seats in the assembly working bodies, which, formally, are still waiting for representatives of the Serbian Radical Party. But in this parliament, except in the performances of MPs who often step out of what is politeness, but which is occasionally the result of the criticism they are exposed to, you will find no example of discrimination, disdaining you as a representative of the citizens of Serbia, because it is for us. From September of the month when the federal elections were until December, the SPS lost a million and a half voters. Temporary measures were introduced only in those municipalities where serious incidents occurred. You mentioned Lebana and Kladov most often. In both municipalities, there was a conflict of citizens, roadblocks, a situation where practically local self-government could not work. In Kladovo, incidents only occurred after local municipal leadership refused to respect the results of elections organised in local communities. Whether it was a deal with the top of the party or some other question, but in Kladovo, the streets were blocked, approaching the city, do you want me to read you a copy of the municipal leadership of the SPS, the justice ministry, the representatives of the citizens who rebelled. (President: Time. ) Therefore, the introduction of forced measures was exclusively done in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government and were never in the leadership, the newly appointed management of municipalities was held by representatives, and today there are representatives of DOS. Not in any of the cases. As a rule, these were people who were, to the extent possible, neutral, not members of the parties that are currently in the opposition, or parties that are in power today. It is the essence of temporary measures and we will organise elections on which we will have the opportunity to check ourselves on the political market.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7702	Can I help you? (Tomislav Nikolic: Replica. ) There was no, only the SRS proposal was mentioned. It's not a replica. It's not immoral, no, no, that it's not a little principle of yours to respect, so it's not an injury or an insult, don't. It's not a reason for the replica, at all. (Tomislav Nikolic: Give me the right to reply. Read the Rules of Procedure. They mentioned the Serbian Radical Party, they misread it. No precise facts have been made. We can't talk about people's names. We can't talk about the name of the party, we've never done that, people. If it's an insult, if it is, I've given it regularly. Guys, please don't. (Tomislav Nikolic: It is according to the Rules of Procedure, read item 2. It really doesn't make sense, but I'm gonna give up now. But the next time they misread it, I'll have to react. I can't, they're just mentioned, no offense. The second question is whether the facts are true, not true, it's a matter of controversy. Please, gentlemen. I can't give you either, really. (Branislav Ivkovic: Second announcement. We can go into an awkward situation now. I don't have to give it to you, but I have to respect the Rules of Procedure. (Tomislav Nikolic: False facts have been expressed. ) False facts are a matter of discussion, but not of replication. Please don't. We've been discussing this for six hours. It's not about giving up, Mr. Nikolic, it's not in the negative context at all. You've always received your word. (Tomislav Nikolic: What is this empty chair for you? ) An empty chair is a positive context. If it's a second call, go ahead. You abuse my nobleness.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7703	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I was just about to compliment some things, but I'm going to have to cut it down a little bit now. I don't need your nobility, I just need the right of the president of a parliamentary group, whose MPs I lead here, to react when mentioned in a negative context, and especially when there are no truths about certain events. Since the truth about the Kladovo municipality is not expressed, I just want to say that surely one of the most difficult blows to democracy has been given by the Ministry of Justice and the local self-government, which in 17 municipalities where the Socialists in power have imposed a forced administration. Even in municipalities where he is, for example. 32 SPS committees, only four DOS and one SPS. As for the Municipality of Kladovo, my dear sir, and the public to inform, a criminal complaint has been filed against Bogojic Dusan from DOS, Gainovic Nikola from DOS, etc., the seven who have declared themselves a crisis staff. They made it impossible for schools to work in the city, the city to have milk, to work hospitals, and to create a complete break with the citizens of the bus, van Kladova. It was technology in all other places. There were perhaps 20 citizens of the White Palanca in the White Palace, and buses from Nis were brought by people to make rhumbs. To know what's true. As far as the Assembly is concerned, I mean, Ambassador Cedomir Jovanovic is right. Indeed, here in the Assembly the efforts of all -- and representatives of the majority coalition DOS, and the president of the assembly, and the Vice-President of the Assembly and our president of the parliamentary groups, are indeed as much trying to work towards the Rules of Procedure as is said to be the highest authority of this state. The trouble is, in this congregation, we have trips from the type Hitlers, the Jews, not to speak any further. We understand that. These trips were responded in the right way. There's no moving on from this congregation. It's not a slaughter that's dying here in the assembly, it's the greatest effort of all of us trying to calm down. That's what's not good. Since I spent one piece, or three minutes on a replica of my ten minutes for another announcement, I would again speak to Mr. Vladan Batic, where I stopped at the previous announcement. I think we understand each other. It's the hardest thing to do today for legal employees, the hardest thing to do is to make it clear to them if they lose their jobs. Number two, most difficult because they are now told that there will be cassation, appeals and other courts, and they understand that the uncertainty of employment is present. That's why some people go to apathy, and others start doing what they're told. I think Minister Batic has the greatest responsibility here. He had to be the one who would clearly have to be fenced by all of his government counterparts, who took on the role of both the prosecutor and the investigative judge and the judge. He had to and must make it clear to all the employees in the judiciary to work peacefully, honestly and honestly, his job, that no one would lose their bread and that everyone would stay in their seats. Then, in that situation, we could begin to believe that the judiciary is independent. Since that's not there, we have the right to suspect that the judiciary is dependent. For example, which took place on March 30th -- every time he was practicing law, I wasn't in law enforcement, but the lawyers taught me, he knows when the M.O.P. filed a criminal report, the M.P. has no right to do anything without a warrant from an investigative judge. On March 30th, Konvananska Street, faces were unknown. A criminal report has been filed and have been legal representatives of the MUP. They did something there, they tried something, whether to change the guards, what, God knows, but at half past three in the morning they beat up the MPs, here are these messengers sitting here. They got beat up by the militia, why? What they wanted to do according to the residence where Slobodan Milosevic was, no one knows alive. The investigating judge's warrant was denied, as the prosecutor only filed a request for an investigation on March 31st. On March 31st, Mr Batic, sitting next to Prime Minister Djindjic, spoke of the indictment. The charges haven't been filed today. It is not raised because the process is also going extremely slowly, as all processes go for those detained, so as not to affect witnesses. How Slobodan Milosevic can influence witnesses if he is guarded by the military, if he is being watched by the police, if his phone is being listened to, if his house is being tapped safely, as many people here are listening. Well, that's normal. We also know the car numbers following us, so let's not talk details. Furthermore, the Godless White has been arrested. The Bogoljub of the White has been on hunger strike for 30 days, and he hasn't taken water in the last five days. They couldn't break his arm, stab him, give him an intravenous injection. Did any of you find out that he's on a hunger strike? We are served that Kurds strike hunger in Turkish case files, and we cannot know that they strike a hunger man astounded by the fact that he has been detained for 60 days, because they are not coming to be questioned by witnesses, and all witnesses have been questioned long ago. Therefore, it is clear that today we have an attempt to deal with political insinuators, who, unfortunately, are perceived as political enemies to be deleted and are selectively chosen targets, very selectively. Many are forgotten, and many are not forgotten. As far as emergency administrations are concerned, everything is said and I'm going to give you examples and we're going to talk about it here. Serbian citizens must know that in Kladov's man who sat here organized everything, how a crisis headquarters was created, which made chaos, and then a forced administration was formed that had no one from that crisis headquarters, but they finished the job. It's the technology that was done in all the places where forced administration was introduced. The people's will was erased, and a representative from the opposition said - gentlemen, if we had told Gonzales that we had got London, he would have put London on the list. As for The Hague, take and read a similar law in Croatia, read the one in Bosnia and read this shameful law made by the Federal Minister of Justice. I can't believe the Federal Minister of Justice did this law without consulting the Republic Minister, but I won't make a mistake about my soul. I will not blame Mr Batic here, but I ask him to intervene, to ask Mr Grubač to read the Croatian law, to see that the government there decides on everything that is here under Mr Grubač's 17th proposal, a militiaman can neither blame nor be obliged to take anyone who is on the Hague warrant and lead him straight to The Hague. That's the accident, that's the right to self-defense. Is that why we violate the right of the people to self-defense? Who goes to The Hague? The one who defended his country? Who will defend Serbia tomorrow? No one or that, my dear gentlemen, is the goal. You check it out. In the end, Cosmet, but also at the beginning, and we'll talk about it Monday. While the Socialists were in power, even Kouchner was not allowed to forget Serbia, he wrote that its regulations apply in Kosovo and Metohija, but the laws of the Republic of Serbia are in force, even until 1989, but are valid. What happens now that he's been silent since January, and there's known what Mr. Hekerup is up to. What's going on? Neither Serbia nor Yugoslavia nor Serbia-Yugoslavia legislation is available. That's what this is about, there's nothing. I heard it from the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, I watched it like you did on television. At the time of Kushner, provisions of the legislation of the Republic of Serbia were in force until 1989. Today, at the time of Hekerup, there is no provision in the legislation of the Republic of Serbia. We need to be more involved. The minister of justice had to react immediately, as soon as it was heard that Hekerup was preparing something, that the public would also be warned that the international public would know that they would react uniquely here. There is no defence of Serbia or Yugoslavia without the unique appearance of all parties in this parliament. Every palitative solution offered is a weak appearance of the Serb people, and that is the essence. Therefore, gentlemen, it is not the Minister of Justice himself, Mr Vladan Batic, as a man. Here is a matter of justice and local self-government in the DOS government, which missed out on time to warn his colleagues not to do what they did, which failed in time to protect Serbia's justice system from possible influences, each has the right to doubt, which has failed to point out to the federal justice minister that it is not the interest of Serbia, the Serbian people and all Serbian citizens to send such a shameful proposal of The Hague law, which has failed to raise Serbia's citizens in time, what Hekerup is preparing to understand that part of the international community, which has persistently, even worse than before, seeks to make problems in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7704	Replica, Mr Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7705	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really thank Mr. Ivkovic for mentioning the MP from Kladov, in order to, for the sake of truth, present the facts relating to the introduction of a forced administration in the Municipality of Kladovo. The local community's crisis headquarters has been formed. Why? Because elections were held for the councils of local communities and your friend Dobromir Popovic, otherwise an MP in the previous meeting, and I was also an MP in the previous meeting, as the president of the municipality did not recognise it, and the president of the Executive Board. There's been a crisis staff of 19 meat traps. In those days Dragisa Popovic, professor of high school in Kladovo, who stands before you, was with you here, in this assembly with another MP, respected doctor Sinish Popovic, a member of the Socialist Party, and in no way am I the organizer of all this. I'm glad you attribute it to me, you attribute such great power to me, but let me tell you where Dr. Sinisa Popovic is now. He left the Socialist Party and returned his mandate. Well done to that honorable man. He's a regular surgeon, respected in the middle, and he doesn't want to be on your team anymore. As for Kladova, I must take the opportunity to congratulate the citizens of Kladovovdan, the city's glory. It is the first glory in freedom after ten years of terror and the rule of the Socialist Party. I must mention the names of the people from the crisis headquarters to see that it was not organised by Dragisa Popovic, but was organised by Borislav Petrovic-Trifke from Korbov, an exceptional host, Dragan Žjanovic, an extremely young man, like the majority of the young DOS MPs, Nikola Kalinovic from Vajuga, Dusan Bogojevic, who was mentioned by Mr Ivkovic for raising criminal charges. Criminal charges have been filed against all of these, against me and Mr. Alexic Milivoj. I have to mention this man. It's a journalist on the list of "Today", who first had the courage to announce that your president, who was in CZ, had released that wrong aggregate in Negotin. People called from the scene and it's on the "Today" list. That's the Alexic, who had the courage. (President: Time. I'm finishing up, Mr. President, just to mention these other people. Boris Srbulović...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7706	Don't mention it on the list now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7707	What did Mr. Batic do? The blockade was invisible from all three directions. Mr Batic only did what he could and should have done according to the law, to settle it according to the law. The local self-government didn't work, the city was blocked, citizens' rights were violated, and Mr. Batic has no responsibility for everything that happened in Kladovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7708	Just to let you know that we have 24 more registered speakers, that's what I'm saying. The word has a minister of justice, Mr Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd only mention a few things because it's not worth anything to answer for. Just for delivering some of our countrymen or citizens to The Hague. Gentlemen, while the previous regime was in power, gangs of human-headed hunters kidnapped in Serbia, I don't know if it happened during the former regime in Smederev or Pozarevec, and Mr. Todorovic in Zlatibor. Some may be judged by those who have been discovered, and some have not been discovered. While in power the former regime to The Hague tribunal was delivered to Erdemovic and Kremenovic, one of whom was a Serbian citizen and the other was Republika Srpska. Now, by what constitution do you keep calling on today and by what law of co-operation with The Hague? That's the facts. Furthermore, it is mentioned that the judiciary is reportedly not independent, that lynch, terror, repression, as well as the presses to an independent judiciary, to carry out mounted political processes. It's probably from previous experience, because of political processes towards DOS leaders, or the leaders of the Alliance for Change, because of political processes and arrests and beating up members of the resistance student movement, because of political processes towards editors, journalists, directors of independent media, and it was a practice and these were mounted processes, unrecorded nowhere. Furthermore, some tracking, listening, files have been mentioned. Gentlemen, I guess this is the only country in the world where this has had such a culmination, that so many people have been tapped, followed, that the Service of State Security, instead of doing other things, has dealt with certain fictions and fixations about the internal enemy. I have to tell you that there's been an indictment brought against the head of the former State Security Service just because of these classified files. I have to tell you that the most secret file reports Mr. Zoran Djindjic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and it's 800 and some reports, the second is Vesna Pesic with 600 and some reports, the third is Vojislav Kostunica with 560 and some reports, and the fourth is me, my smallness, with 559 reports. Imagine how much organization it took, how much service it took, how much money was spent, how many people were hired to take days, months, years of pictures, shoots, monitors, and that's amazing. That's why it had to end the way it ended on October 5th. Since Mr Grubač was mentioned -- it was not the Republic government that formed the task force, it was the federal government. The law on co-operation with The Hague tribunal I also read, I did not participate in any way in the drafting of the law. But I must tell you when you are already calling, and there is no Mr. Ivkovic now, to the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal of the Republic of Croatia or the Federation of BiH, that this draft law published these days and in the press, in some way, is a fairly complicated Croatian law on co-operation with The Hague tribunal. There's no automation whatsoever, it's not true that any cop can arrest, lead, extradite, etc. There is simply a precisely defined, even very complicated procedure in front of domestic judicial authorities. And finally, one option is that the federal government decides to veto or veto, and the other one is that the federal justice minister decides on what the judicial authorities do. Well, you've had a chance to look at it in the press and there's no need to convince the law. Next, I spoke to Mr. Hackerup more than once. So, multiple times before these constitutional frameworks were adopted. You're not going to mention it in the press because you're constantly quoting the press report, but you're not showing the papers, you're showing the papers, the fragments, or the parts of the text that fit to be accused. So they were published in the means of informing my letters that were sent to Hekerup. Unfortunately, if I had any more power, it would be better, but Hans Hekerup is the result of your concern for Kosovo and Metohija. He is the result of your patriotism in Kosovo and Metohija, and that is the balance of your authority and your concern for national and state spaces. One more thing... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Come on, get down, as if he were a proposing and explain. )......................................................................................................... how the justice system worked... Warn this unarticulated man here. I filed a criminal complaint against Adem Dematici on 30 August 1998 (this is the criminal complaint against Adem Dematici, who was filed under the number of KP 204/98) claiming that Adam Demaci was the initiator of Albanian separatism and terrorism. What did the D.A.'s office do? It started days, weeks and months to write to me. I deliver the original text from "The Wall of Tea," from "Bild", and from other European newspapers in which those statements were published. So that was the story of the judiciary at the time when the former regime was in power. It's no one who has the right to play with any part of state territory. If that were the case, here's one of my interviews published in April last year -- Kosovo must preserve every authority. So that's what I've said countless times, and there's no need for me to act and play patriotism in front of you. It's obviously a matter of your conscience, when you constantly refer to additional patriotism.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7710	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7711	I warned you, Mr. President, that you should respect a member of the Rules of Procedure who won't allow you to give Mr. Batic another word at all. You deliberately and consciously wish there was no sitting and no voting, so that some MPs of the ruling majority would not be in the dilemma of how they would vote. You allow, Mr. President, Mr. Batic to speak for seven minutes about what happened. That's not why we called him, it's what he's been doing since he's been in power. Furthermore, you allow him as if he were a proposing, as if he had submitted a motion for a vote of no confidence to match the individuals who are talking about the proposal. Tell us, is that what you want the session to end so you don't have any problems for Monday? I warn you, Mr. President, we will no longer tolerate this. Vladan Batic spoke, has the right to replica whenever he has the right to reply, but you can no longer give him a word by any member of the Rules of Procedure, and especially not because he doesn't speak at all about what we asked him about. I don't care when he filed charges against Dematici. I'm asking him why he didn't arrest Solana. That's the thing. I wasn't in power. [[You can't hear a comment from the gym.]] Should he come if I was in power? Would you mind if Solana came while the radicals were in power? Please, Mr. President, we will no longer tolerate this, you will see from our speakers. We'll either be in an equal position in this session or we won't. The gentleman is from Kladov, you give him the right to reply. This is an insult to the SRS. You're not giving me the right to a replica. Is this not an unequal treatment for all MPs in this congregation? Please consider what you are turning this congregation into. We can finish by 7:30 one way or the other. If it suits you, we'll end it by breaking up so we don't vote on Minister Batic, that's all. But let's put up with it more so that the minister we've proven doesn't deserve to be a minister like this. (Glass: No, you're not. () Fully proven. Here, the press says, well done, you've said everything. You said everything. What he's... There's nothing here, Mr. President, I've told you everything. The fact that he, like with a handful of his co-workers in DOS deserved even to be a minister of justice, is your problem with DOS. That you have a minister like this. I allow every DOS MP to come out here and defend him and say everything he's done well as a minister, but the minister here has been holding the Wackles for what happened five years ago, who followed him three years ago, what do you care, Minister? I was a tracking object, too, so what? I want to brag about that? That's what the state thought of me, and it's an honor to me. There's no record. And what they have about me being wrong, traveling to Budapest, bringing money for a coalition like you. That's what he's
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7712	Now let's go make a deal with the Rules of Procedure. We've already discussed this matter of right to the word. As far as keeping the topic, it is an objection, so it cannot only answer what you have pointed out in the written proposal or what you, as a speaker representative, have pointed out behind the speaker, but what others point to as an objection to the work. Therefore, he responded directly to Mr. Ivkovic's exposure. Now, as MPs who support Mr Batic's resolution support it by talking about Zone B, I don't know about this or what, anything else, and not what the job of the minister of justice is, that's another thing. That's what I warned you about five hours ago. However, if such a debate is wanted and if you really want us to finish, which my great desire would be, I suggest you withdraw your applications and at the same time we will have a vote. If you think we're running from the vote. If we run away from the vote, withdraw your applications, the argument is so exhausted. You're the one who resented me trying to set up a session so there wouldn't be a vote. I'm giving you a counter-proposal-- pull these 26 registered speakers that don't anyway... (Glasses: We won't. Please, let's get back to work and we'll finish when the time comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7713	As far as I'm concerned, I just want to point out that none of us are running away from the duel or from the discussion, but Minister Batic can get a replica. There's no more right to get a seven-and-a-half-minute word or 15-minute word from you. You have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. A replica for him can come out after anyone. After each member of the DOS and the SPS and the SRS and each other, but you cannot determine to go out and speak as much as anyone will, if the Rules of Procedure has no right. He may and may have the right to appear on the line to anyone, if he is mentioned or if he is spoken of in the discussion. But he can't use a time of 7, 8 and 10 minutes. Because every time you warn us, in three seconds, depending on what's in the Rules of Procedure. It's something that's got a problem. Do not twist things and say that there is another problem, that MPs withdraw their applications. The MPs want to speak, but you must act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7714	I can't do anything but read to you again that - the other members of the Government, the President of the National Assembly, gives a word when asked for it, and their exposure may take twice as long as time to present the MPs. I'm sorry that you...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7715	Mr. President, you're taking this member of the Rules of Procedure. This is the National Assembly. This is the Assembly of Messengers. The whole article of which you have now quoted refers to how many times it has the right to speak and how much time it has to speak. So it is predicted that the MP speaks once...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7716	Where does it say?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7717	You know. Three other members of the program reads that the speaker can speak another time if the point is not explained well enough. It all says so, so ask that Jew or whatever his name is. Furthermore, the MP has the right to speak once for 10 minutes unless the Assembly has decided otherwise. The Board's reporters have twice. The minister has the right once, for twice as long as an MP and has the right to receive a word whenever he asks. That's all there is to it. So the minister's not waiting in line, he's not filing a report. The minister raises his hand, comes out for a pay phone, talks twice as much as the MP says, and he ends up with his speeches at that session. The government only has a different treatment. Because he's a representative of the applicant, so he talks twice three and once. And the Prime Minister even has the right to have a word once, whenever he asks, but he doesn't have time. That's the whole member. No more. There's no right minister 50 times to come out, Mr. President, 100 times to come out. There isn't. He's only right once. Don't read the Rules of Procedure to us. We didn't make this assembly for the ministers and for the government, but for the MPs. The MPs of the people rule in this congregation. We made a Rules of Procedure. Of course, we appreciate that someone is a minister and has the right to speak twice as much from MPs and that is all, not unlimited times and countless times. I guess you get that. But why are you avoiding it? Because you'd have to give him the right to a replica, and then you'd have to give it to us. You avoid giving us the right to a replica, even when it is seen that the party is directly mentioned and that something is directly misread. And now you, the minister, answer the word. He's not answering here, he's waiting for the outcome of the debate, the outcome of the vote. He's humbled here, shaking in the bench. If he were a real minister, he'd feel that way. He wouldn't feel like a superior MP, not as a commander to the MPs, not complaining and throwing MPs away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7718	Here you go, Mr. Ivkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7719	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, just to remind him that zone B was mentioned by a DOS MP wanting to boast, and I just had to explain to him that in Zone B he was sovereignty long before November 2000. The presence of international security forces in Kosovo and Metohija, UNMIK is the result of the fight against all citizens of Serbia against NATO aggression and Resolution 1244, which we have all fought to bring. Therefore, Kušner and Hekerup's stay is the result of the resolution. The second is a few dangers that this part of the international community does not respect that resolution. Both this people and Serbia need unity of all parties and the minimum of national unity, to fight for that resolution to be applied. Mr Vladan Batic is involved in the battle. I read the letters he wrote and that's the truth. In another of our discussions, he showed me that file, and that's true. So, all of us, Serbian citizens, have fought that those who bombed this country return to the UN and vote Resolution 1244. The other thing is, it doesn't apply. It is our job, on all of us sitting in this assembly and all of Serbia's citizens, to support this fight, to apply the resolution and to return to Kushner level, to at least recognise the 1989 laws and move on and fix that thing. Mr. Batic, you've, uh, been answering to me, which is why I answered the line, talking about the past. We discussed the past yesterday, and the day before yesterday, about the law, because you said that the result of Hekerup was the work of the Socialist Party, which is why I explained. As far as the past is concerned, the Law on Small and Medium Enterprises and the Law on the Protection of Juveniles was not an argument that they were not good, so all DOS MPs were returning to the past. We have explained - for 10 years there has been a system disturbance and it is certain that greater responsibility than others is borne by those who were in power, and these responsibilities have not been amnestied by those who were in opposition. We reminded you that you called for civil disobedience, from going to the military to not paying for electricity. Therefore, everyone's responsibility must bear, but you've spoken of the past, corresponding to me. I ask you again -- am I not telling the truth that your government colleagues have been putting a terrible pressure on the judicial system and on the employees of the judicial system, because they have been arrested through newspapers, because they have announced arrests, because they have spoken -- there are indications; because, simply, in their political battle with those they view as enemies, they may even hate them, essentially through the media that are being controlled by judges now, they have to think about what one thinks, and what the other Prime Minister thinks. You didn't answer that, you didn't answer my claim that today's most difficult for the employees of Serbia's justice system. Why is it most difficult for them - their future is uncertain because they are threatened with judicial reform, cassation, appeals courts, that explains the President of the Supreme Court. (Minister Batic, from the post: There will be more courts. It is, but it's about rationalization, about a thousand judges less. Secondly, they are threatened that, as under the former regime, they will not work for four years in law enforcement and people are in an awkward situation. Therefore, it is better, please, to talk about what is today, which has been since you've been minister, and don't let us go back.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7720	I'm sorry, I forgot to warn you. You're way out of line. He has the word National MP Alexander Vucic (replica).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, let me tell Mr. Ivkovic that we didn't all fight for UN Security Council Resolution 1244. On the contrary, we were against that resolution, and we were against all that was in that resolution and all that the resolution was making. Here we had a closed session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Vojislav Seselj then told Mr Ivkovic everything, what will happen according to this plan and the resolution that was accepted at that time in the UN. Unfortunately, all the black hunches, all the things we predicted, that was then and at that moment, that was after that time. The Serbian radicals didn't fight for it, and we never talked about it, and we never wanted that resolution, and we never wanted their troops, and we never wanted any of their help, so it's not true that we all advocated it. God forbid. Do not give us God, and God forbid they leave here as soon as possible, that they may depart from our places, nor have we called them, nor are we in need, neither they nor those who protect them. On the other hand, I'd just say, since you didn't allow at that moment a replica about something Mr. Jovanovic spoke of. I think it's important that I say a few words about it. It was said that the SRS was looking for something that she couldn't get or that's why there's no fifth vice president's seat, not filled, etc. - The SRS, the public and the truth, didn't ask for anything that didn't belong to her. We were looking for what belonged to us by the election results, which we weren't even satisfied with. That's all we've been looking for, in accordance with the will of the people. That's why we asked, not according to the Rules of Procedure to come up with and invent a new fifth vice-presidential post, but, counting on the advantage of being president of the National Assembly and of being vice-president, in any case belonged to one of the four vice-presidential posts. And finally, to say about this Erdemovic, who was spoken of, which was delivered in the previous period -- namely, it is a man, Drazen Erdemovic, who is a Croatian national, a man who went to The Hague himself, who is otherwise very controversial in his role in conflicts in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, i.e. in the functioning of the former BiH area, because this man, working for certain intelligence services, has been doing dirty jobs for certain crimes to be attributed to the Serbian people, and he did not do so, whether I liked it or not, that was before the moment when we participated in power as a minority partner, but neither did the previous Socialist rule, however, and it was not responsible for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7722	The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7723	Mr. Chairman, I don't know if there's any point in discussing a minister who's not here? Probably that he doesn't think he's discussing his trust today, so he's not interested. However, I have a great grudge as an SRS MP on how today's session is being held in the first place, primarily because the thesis has been replaced here -- instead of discussing the agenda, therefore, the confidence of Justice Minister and local self-government Vladan Batic, Vladan Batic takes over not only justice in Serbia and Yugoslavia, but also taking the Rules of Procedure out of the hands of the National Assembly president. This is what bothers all MPs who really know the Rules of Procedure and who have read it, regardless of the political option they belong to. You really don't even know when the president of the assembly is going to give a word to anyone or not allow a replica. At least of all here at the pay phone today was the proposer of this agenda, and most of all there was talk about what was not on the agenda, because you did not allow MPs who asked to talk about not trusting Minister Batic to talk about it. For example, what would happen and who would you give the replica to if I said "Ali-Baba and 40 Hajduk", you could only give the word to Justice Minister Vladan Batic, not only because he sits in the front row, but also because he's on the agenda today. And when we talk about Ali-Baby and 40 bandits, then you know who they're talking about. The minister of justice and local self-government on this function is in this style and has come, he has come to represent the synonym restore in which he has settled, and he is absolutely the opposite. So riding as the Horseman of the Apocalypse, at bulldozer points, is not on women, but at bulldozer points, has become a Serbian cadiya. He announced through "dependence" arrests, persecutions, accusations and, of course, the execution of the executioner. In the Serbian Parliament, you are all witnesses, someone will confess, and someone will swear to God again that it is not, insulting the MPs of opposition parties, above all the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party in the most vulgar way that does not fit even the ordinary coachman. But he doesn't forget that, as the last Mojican, he defends and holds the UN tribunal's support, he's scramblingly struggling to preserve The Hague's Serbian crematorium. Here, the deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group made all the statements, in fact and argued, out of the papers, which, however, were DOS's, but which in different time periods made public by Minister Vladan Batic, and the man forgot, as he passed several days, what he said yesterday, what he said to the newspaper today, and what he said about some other DOS newspapers. Since there are collectors who have collected all these articles, they could conclude that it is not just a minister, but a man who changes his mind every evening, or every day. So Justice Minister Vladan Batic, and as a man, he does not hold on to himself and to his morals. Changing such statements and statements has also led to data that Minister Vladan Batic truly deserves cadium epithets. He is so committed to co-operation with The Hague that all his political insatiables, but before that, Serbian patriots, delivers to The Hague tribunal, saying The Hague does not hurt. I would remind him only if there were already Serb victims in The Hague who had long gone white. One of these is Slavko Dokmanovic. Vladan Batic believes The Hague does not hurt. It does not hurt people who lose their lives and do not hurt those who are not related to Vladan Batic or to his neighbour, but we Serbian radicals consider that no Serb man, so he was a patriot or a hesitant, does not deserve to be handed over to The Hague tribunal. So we think that no Serb, who is a citizen of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia or who has found refuge in Serbia, can be handed over to The Hague tribunal. That's not what Vladan Batic thinks. That's exactly what he told us today. However, he told us about what he was doing when he was an opposition. We didn't ask him that, nor did we accuse him of it. We ask him what he's been doing since October 5th, when he set the Federal Assembly on fire and we ask him, who's going to answer for it? We ask Minister Vladan Batic - what happens in southern Serbia, does the judiciary in Medvedja, Presevo and Bujanovac work and how it works? To that question, Vladan Batic answers the same question as if we were asking a child at school what you got today, and he got a bad grade and said, "Today when I came back from school, it was raining." So Vladan Batic is responsible for the situation in the south, in Kosovo, so he behaves as a child of seven years. Vladan Batic declares that the great fighter has been divided by the authorities, not to interfere with the legislative and judicial authority, to deal exclusively with his business. That's a lot of ways to deny it. First of all, he denies his statements that are contradictory, which are in collegiate, which we heard about here today, and I would not repeat them, and he also denies that he also brought to The Hague with him Mr Radet Terzic, V.D. D.A.'s attorney. So, what does Rade Terzic, a public prosecutor with Serbia's Justice Minister, Vladan Batic, in The Hague? He's not wearing his suitcases, is he? If it is true that Rade Terzic was with Vladna Batic in The Hague, and he did not, he did not deny it here today, because he is not denying anything here today but because he has no answer to what we ask him, he is accusing of something that happened five years ago, ten years ago, or he may be accusing someone from the Serbian Radical Party of something that happened 500 years ago, when his people may have ruled this Serbia. So Serbian Radical Party MPs were given a chance to talk about a vote of mistrust to Vladan Batic. They received, above all, because Vladan Batic is now not in the hall, and while he was sitting here in the front row, where the ministerial post could not have come to a word from him, not only because he keeps reporting for the word, but because he threw it to the speakers, as well as the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, telling the president of the assembly that the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group heard unarticulated sounds and strong. So if Vladan Batic is the minister of justice and has given himself such freedom to humiliate and insult Serbian radicals without argument, to hide his crimes and inactions as minister of justice and local self-government, he cannot in the Serbian parliament insult the MPs, regardless of how much he hates them. I can't say I hate Prime Minister Vladan Batic, but I'm sure if I woke up at night at some point and saw him, I'd be scared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7724	It's a warning, Mr. Kesseus. The word has been made by the MP Lazar Marjanski, and the next MP is Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7725	Dear People's MPs, I would suggest that this assembly lasts for another three minutes, it is a mild day, the glory of baptism is, Mr Batic believes in God, so I invite him to help everyone, to resign. Since he won't, I'll say a few things about Mr. Batic. On today's agenda of this assembly is a debate on the confidence, work, behaviour and behaviour of Mr Batic, Minister of Sport in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, pardoning the minister of justice and local self-government in the same government, although I am not sure, wrongly and accidentally calling him a sports minister, since it is known to all Serbian citizens that "Mr Batic is extremely well aware of the top sport in this country, especially the situation in the Football Federation of Yugoslavia, and the failure of the national football team and its former selector". This is a quote from the Sports Journal. Unfortunately, however, Mr Batic is still the minister of justice and local self-government, which he would have to know himself, especially if he had the rights and obligations of the ministry at which he is still headed. Therefore, if he does not know or, by chance, forgets, remind him that the Ministry of Justice and local self-government is an executive body, i.e. the authority of the administration which is primarily required to provide material and organisational conditions for the work of the judicial authority - the judicial authorities of the Republic. However, Mr Batic is concerned with other issues, especially those that go beyond the domain of his authority as minister or as the people say "in every chorus of peace". Mr. Batic likes to announce arrests and do so in front of TV cameras, he would like to arrest and arrest them himself, or, on the other hand, to issue warrants directly and to announce, by personal or party intent, that he replaces or appoints judges and public prosecutors. However, as justice minister, he would have to know, and if he may have forgotten what I doubted, I would like to remind him - the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, members of the 95- 106 constitutional frameworks, i.e. the administrative position of the courts and public prosecutors, the authority and obligations of these judicial system institutions, i.e. judicial authorities in the Republic of Serbia, have been established. The Constitution, as the highest legal act, stipulates that the courts are independent and independent in their work, which is also applicable to the public prosecutor's office; that no one taking part in the trial can be called on to be held accountable for their opinion in the course of a judicial decision, or in the exercise of a judicial office; that the judicial, or public prosecutor's office is permanent; that the judge or prosecutor may not be dismissed against his will unless: convicted of a criminal offence on an unconditional sentence of imprisonment of at least six months is convicted of a criminal offence which makes him unfit for the exercise of judicial, or public prosecution functions, when he carries out these functions unequivocally and unwittingly when he loses his working capacity. Furthermore, I would remind Mr. Minister that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia, and not him, in accordance with the Law on Courts, determines the existence of grounds for the termination of the judge's office, i.e. the resolution of the judge, and informs this National Assembly thereof, while, in relation to the public prosecutors, the procedure for discharge is initiated by the Republic's public prosecutor, in accordance with the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office. So, Mr Batic, as justice minister, unfortunately for him and fortunately for all Serbian citizens, can only, according to Article 48. The law on courts, to file an initiative to the Supreme Court of Serbia to initiate a procedure for the resolution of a particular judge, and in relation to public prosecutors, under the Prosecutor's Law, Mr Batic cannot even give an initiative to initiate the discharge procedure, but can be done by a republican public prosecutor. Furthermore, with regard to the election of judges, Mr Batic can only announce the court's vacancy, gather an opinion on individual candidates and deliver it to the National Assembly's competent body, while public prosecutors do not have that legal authority either, but do so by a republican public prosecutor. I underline - the choice and resolution of judges and public prosecutors only performs and exclusively this National Assembly. However, Mr Batic at the republican level, and his followers were party, whether coalition, at local level, voluntarily, by party membership and personal sympathies or led by some other personal or property interests, want them personally replaced, resolved and appointed by the presidents of the courts, judges, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. Without any legal procedure, without any relevant criteria for working, professional, organisational and other qualities of individual persons, one word is shameful, unconstitutional and against the law. Which is, after all, the best picture of you from DOS, how you're experiencing justice and how you're fighting for the legality and the rule of law. In addition to Mr. Minister, almost all local levels have extremely active local DOS leaders, both in pressure on judicial authorities when making concrete decisions in certain cases where they or their close persons or their clients, who are defending lawyers, have special interests and in replacing and setting up legal holders. What does it look like in Zrenjanin? The SO Zrenjanin Decision, held on 24 October 2000, educated the polling committee to determine the extent and content of violations of human rights of persons and family members due to a different political belief in the period 1996 to 2000. Immediately thereafter, his president, lawyer Zoran Vujin, voluntarily renames this committee to the Committee on the fight against bribery, crime and corruption in all media. He sets himself, normally, according to DOS criteria for the president. Trying to find in any number of the Official List of the Municipality of Zrenjanin I have found the existence of Vujin's board, my disappointment and your disappointment to this day, even though it has been more than six months. Which does not mean that Mr Batić, who is well informed about everything, knows where it is published or will be subsequently announced by the education of this committee, will certainly help me and inform us of it in a timely manner. However, I am not surprised either, since the president of the phantom board used the committee primarily for a good promotion of his legal office, in which he has already made a good trade as a multi-year politician just four years ago, as president of the New Democracy municipal board, promotion of SPS and JUL candidates, and calling on his membership and sympathisers to vote for SPS and JUL candidates. For everything I've said, I have material proof. Therefore, instead of changing the Constitution and the laws so that Mr Batic and his like would achieve their own will, we deny the confidence of Mr Batic, it is much simpler, and unless we do so, Mr Batic will resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7726	The word is made by MP Zoran Radovanovic, and the next is MP, Arsic Joca.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7727	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected ministers of local self-government, according to one colleague -- the minister of injustice and the minister of the republic's forced administration. Six hundred seconds as little as I have is for your 100-day ministry and something before that to explain and say what I want to say, so I'll start from the next one. When I talk about you, and you are like the minister of justice, a man who should represent the image of the rule of law and the DOS government, I must remind the MPs and the public of the following concerning the judiciary: in the manner of selecting the holders of judicial functions, in relation to the decisions of the court, in relation to The Hague tribunal, in relation to the law and the removal of immunity to certain MPs, in the manner of choosing the Law on Amnesty, in your relationship with individual media, and in matters relating to local self-government and in order to end the election will come normally to the citizens in the end in importance. Let's take this turn. Today, you yourself said that when the letter bombing began, you publicly condemned the attack on Serbs, as the twilight of European and world civilization, as the UN's collapse. How come you're later or who made you change your mind and be a Hague champion and bearer of The Hague monuments? Then, you change Serbian and Yugoslav laws and chase Serbian heroes around Serbia. Unlike you, for me, Serbian soldiers and police officers who have defended our country long before aggression and aggression themselves, and the Serbian people in Kosovo, heroes and don't deserve to be judged by anyone else, and they are not guilty of anything. You accused Solana and similar war crimes, filed criminal charges against them, but then when you came to power and became minister of the same, you waited in Belgrade with a red carpet. According to the 16th Statute of this famous court, the prosecutor must act independently and must not take orders from any government. Court President Gabriela Kirk MacDonald himself said in the US Supreme Court "We are greatly benefiting from the strong support of interested governments and dedicated individuals such as Madeline Albright. Madeline Albright, as a permanent representative in the United Nations, has been constantly working on the formation of the tribunal and that is why we often refer to it as the mother of the tribunal." The same mother, the minister, who said on state television that Serbia's bombing is an American national interest and that sending 500,000 Iraqi children to death is justified. You told federal Prime Minister Zizic that he was not authorized to decide who is going to The Hague or who is not going to The Hague, announced the adoption of a federal law that would allow the extradition of Serbian citizens. The document, which you probably participated in, is the most serviceable document in the history of Serbs. Even the Croats and Bosnians, passing similar laws, have introduced members by which the government, not the minister (and that is Minister Grubac), should decide who is to go to The Hague. The two countries also showed basic respect and proved to be normal. I think a team of dreams, which I don't think you belong to, led by Grubač, will remain remembered for sending more Serbs to The Hague than the Nazis were tried in Nuremberg after World War II. You have to tell me how much it costs for you DOS efforts to convince the Serbian people of the wise and principled policy of the former US administration and justify William Bill Clinton's thesis told before Congress and the Senate that Serbs are guilty of causing both world wars. Remember, since you said you were a patriot, the words of Ivan Cankar in the parable of "Tessica" who said that a servant who once cheated on his master would do it again and remember Serbian history and the rank of General Talic and Biljana Plasic, who betrayed the Serbian people, so after a one-time use they sent for a multi-year prison vacation. You have stated this - some criminals from the previous regime will be tried in our country and not only because of financial affairs, but also because of war crimes. I ask by what right and by what evidence do you accuse and condemn without evidence, the procedure envisaged in the procedure and what is called justice? I ask how you can, after all the statements in the newspaper and the promises made publicly, then and then, on March 31st, arrest Slobodan Milosevic, to say that you did not know that that evening without legal procedure, the team of nylon socks was moving to the right, not to Drvar but to Užička. Consciously or unconsciously, you have introduced the principle that the former president ends up in prison. Consciously or unconsciously, you are asking that the head of the parliamentary group, along with the already prepared lynch, be deprived of immunity and thus prepare a haika, which will probably scare the rest of us MPs. Local self-government is a special issue. Consciously or unconsciously, you have introduced a forced administration into 17 municipalities, with an explanation that local self-government i.e. The local government can't function. For the sake of MPs and the people of Serbia, the Socialists introduced a forced administration in just five or six municipalities in 10 years. You were introduced into the 17th in 100 days. It was said earlier that this was introduced for the sake of the people and to prevent potential fights and conflicts of citizens. Let's briefly explain this on the Alexine case. In Aleksinc, of the 55 committees of 24 to the DOS, they resigned, written resignations, which left 31 deputies who signed to work in the interest of the municipality. That's enough for most of us to have the community council working. There were no conflicts and riots in the municipality of Aleksinac, but the other day you introduced a forced administration in the municipality of Aleksinac, with a reason that the local government could not function. That's not true. In September of the month, citizens voted for your presidential candidate, the citizens gave most of your lists for the federal elections, but in the bar, for example, in Aleksinc they voted for the Socialist Party of Serbia's committees. This is what you violate and end the electoral will of citizens, this is what you steal votes from them, and all of you here in this room are mouthful of democracy and stories about the rights of citizens. In the end, since I've heard that there's not much to talk about, because there are a lot of files here, and some files can be made, I'd like as a little sign of the minister's attention, even though it's far away, probably close to the door, handing out a little gift, that the Socialist always remembers us, that he thinks of us, that he thinks of us, that he's not going to be the owner and that he's no longer the executioner of someone's orders and orders. Before I bring you a gift, Minister, I would recommend that you arrest those who have lied to the people for six billion, because - whoever lies and steals and therefore, it will be a legal remedy to help the Serbian people, and you give them that they are plastic, but they will remind you, Minister. (Employee Zoran Radovanovic gives Vlad Batic, minister of justice, foxes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7728	The People's Messenger Joca Arsic has the word, and the next is the People's Messenger Jon Cismash.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7729	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, has already been said here and I would not repeat what has already been said and about how local self-government has been introduced in 17 municipalities, with the argument that this is a change in the will of the citizens in the elections that took place after the September elections, when the local self-government committees, proportionate, where a man was elected, rather than a party, that this will is clearly expressed to the individual, means to the council, and there can be no termination of the will after that, by some party principle in the proportional elections that came after that. If we were to apply it as a principle, then we would then, after the will expressed, say, in Šapac or Vranj, where the Socialist Party's committees were given elections, maybe we should do a blockade, ask for temporary measures to be introduced there and change the voter's will in the previous period, or, say, in other places like Paz or in other areas. So let's not forget where it's changed for the benefit of these others. What I would like to say here, which is certainly the responsibility of the current justice minister, is that in the election of the judicial authorities, i.e. the bearer of the functions of the judicial authorities in Belgrade, the Law on the Elections of Officials of the Judicial Authorities, that here in the Assembly is under the patronate of the Ministry of Justice and the senior judicial authorities, has been appointed by the holders of judicial functions, and that no competition has previously been called, that the holders of the judicial functions are not elected from the ranks of the judges or prosecutors, that they did not report to the general competition and have used their democratic right to choose from more candidates the one who is the best and who is the most qualitative. In addition to that, I can say that the ministry has given one general contest and called elections for legal holders in municipal and district courts. The practice now applies to everyone else, the practice did not apply to judicial officials in Belgrade. The second thing that happened in parallel with this - at the same session of the Assembly is changed the Information Act and a new one that has two members is proposed, with three amendments intervened on those two members and the Law on the termination of the Information Act was adopted. The first thing I was talking about, and these other ones are clearly compatible. There is a need for persecution and trial in Belgrade. It is necessary to create a climate that has no responsibility in the means of public information and thus prepare what will happen, and what is already happening, which is no longer history, is now a reality. That I don't list all the things here. The second, or third, law on local self-government has been announced, that it will be passed, and only cosmetic changes have been made in that law, as regards compliance with the laws on budgets and financial laws, or the laws of the financial sphere. It has also been announced that a new information law will be adopted urgently, which will regulate this matter since it is previously undiscovered and it has been said to be undemocratic, that it is totalitarian, and now what is happening is a complete anarchy in public information. So it's all deliberate persecution activity, first of all, socialists and function holders in the SPS to allow procedures to be initiated, to be arrested, to be judged in the paper, to be judged before that by individuals, ministers or government members. Furthermore, what is indicative, which is that the current current current current minister knows nothing, has not been informed, has not been present, does not know when Milosevic will be arrested, does not know about this indictment, does not know about this or whether it is the delivery, whether the regulations to be adopted at the federal level concerning the regulation of matter around The Hague tribunal are at stake. Otherwise, as far as I know, he is also a federal MP and participates not only in the executive, but in the legislative authority, but not at the republican level, but at the federal level. On March 30th, the arrest of President Slobodan Milosevic, we have all testified that the Socialists, learning that a group is gathering outside the Konavanska Street, ahead of President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's residence, came out of here and attended the lakordier there from attempts to arrest in a totally amateur, illegal and non-critical way. This is a real shame and shame without knowing what it is that none of those responsible in this country and what's going to happen. There was no arrest that night, although it was tried with socks on its head, with masked uniforms, with shoes and sweaters, by some unknown, so far explained to no one group of people. What's most important and most important in that matter is that a serious violation has been committed by the judicial authorities. The SRJ president, formerly Slobodan Milosevic, the SPS president, has not been served, has not been notified, no indictments have been filed. The public prosecutor only does so the next day after President Milosevic's independent, voluntary departure, so only after the president left was he served the indictment, i.e. the public prosecutor launched the investigation procedure. Therefore, it is one of the most serious violations in the work of the judicial authorities, for which no one has ever toothed, nor spoken a word, for which it is certainly the greatest responsibility of the one most responsible for the functioning of the judiciary, and that is Mr. Current Minister. Furthermore, what I can resent to the current minister is an unagreed relationship to this assembly. Whenever the laws were signed by the current minister, he was not here to represent them and defend them, but therefore he came to the end of the session to give the final word, waved many times, to tell it before the session was over, to conclude the session, and therefore non-chalantly, after that speech, without the right to say anything else, to leave this room, normally because it was the end of work and the end of the session. And finally, let me conclude, based on everything that's been said, I think it would be correct for the minister to resign himself, not to suffer any more and to conclude this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7730	The word has the People's MP Jon Chismas, followed by MP Srdja Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7731	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an MP for the DOS, I will vote against the motion for non-trust of the minister of justice and local self-government, Mr. Vladan Batic, submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. If the promoters submitted a proposal based on the Constitution, I believe they could read the next Article 94 paragraph 3 that the ministries were independent in the exercise of the Constitution and the law of certain competences. As for the arguments presented in the proposal, I believe that in a spectacular and unargumented manner in the form of a newspaper report, the opposition's parliamentary group is trying to discredit Mr Batic as minister. Now I'm going to quote, "By example, it is dangerous to the environment and legal order, and as such we must isolate it, because this precedent during the DOS can become a rule." In this way, they accuse Mr. Minister in advance, as well as that they might continue to try to rule according to their established principles. Mr Batic has achieved his full political affirmation by respecting the principles of democracy and respecting the law in the process of creating a rule of law. In this sense, the minister advocates the widest civil and human rights and freedom, which includes accepting the collective will expressed in the law. For those who ruled under Hamurabi's law, in the style of the famous sayings Louis JIV-L,etat c,six moi, an anachronous application of the law is also deplaced because they continue to believe in anarchy. Serbia and the Serbian people, like all its citizens, are in a position to at the same time define both national and state interests in line with the widest human rights, to which it obliges that its own tradition of the Dušan Code and the desire of the DOS be accepted as an equal member of the international community. The accusations made in the SRS proposal are without foundation, inappropriate to respect for the right and are therefore directed against the Christian morality applied by Mr Batic in his statements. I believe that the morals, patience and tolerance, as well as the traditional values that the Serb people possess in their collective being, are basic principles that are respected by Mr. Batic. The Latin maximum that reads: "Dura Laj, Sedge" probably bothers many, but I think the minister respects her. I refuse these charges with indignity because they don't match the truth. And in the end, since the radical gentlemen love to be wise, I'm going to paraphrasing an Arabic proverb: "It boasts a goose to a snake how she can run, fly and swim, and that's what a snake will do - you're right, but you can't run like a deer, swim like a fish, fly like a hawk." That's why their review of the press is wrong. But time will put things in place, because we are faced with irreversible changes. Justice will win. And Mr Batic is here to apply the laws according to that old people's saying, "Neither by grandma nor by uncles." That's why I'm telling him my trust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7732	The word has a folk MP Srda Popovic, followed by Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7733	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, considering Mr Batic's shift initiative, one thing should be noted. He is the first minister to come after a rather long and rather dark age of Serbian justice. This dark age of the Serbian judiciary, to remind you, has been wasted among other things by Mr Mirko Djordjevic, Mrs Vesna Dabetic-Trogrlić, Mr Dragan Glavonjic, who opened the haika in their judgments under the Information Act and eventually the hajka killing of Slavko Curuvija. Thirty-nine judges of the criminal court, who systematically tortured and killed "The Voice of the Public" and "ABC Graphics," so I don't read their names. Fifty-seven are those names that were found on the pillar of shame for condemning the media, on a pillar of shame that was publicly exposed, for condemning the media, according to the Information Act, and we know whose credo was the Information Act. The dark age of the Serbian judiciary, which was drunk by several hijackers of Studio B, was therefore blind to police officers who were masculinely beating peaceful protesters. The dark age of the Serbian judiciary that led to the back of a specialis in this assembly, as the outcome of the elections was wrongly decided in courts. Of course, I'm talking about the outcome of the local elections in 1996 that the government then lost. A dark age of Serbian justice that led judges to remain silent in fear, while their colleagues -- Slobodan Vučetic, Miroslav Shera, Todorovic, without a general session of the Supreme Court, at the order of Mr. Govedarica against the legal procedure, with the reason that he is a sympathier of the terrorist-free organisation of the Resistance, and another 19 judges who supported him in it. (Glasses: Theme.) The theme? The judiciary is a subject if I'm not mistaken. Many are dishonest acts, ladies and gentlemen, done in the Serbian judiciary, and that is why it is a good subject and that is why the democratic opposition to Serbia has put this on the agenda, because we want to discuss these problems whenever a public official is asked to answer the question. Just as it could never in the dark times of the Serbian judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I've been listening very carefully for an hour this morning to explain the motionors and the newspaper quotes and the other calls for evidence. I listened very carefully and expected to hear something that interested Serbian citizens. What's the situation in the judiciary, what are the judges' salaries? Whether cases in the area of criminal and criminal law are resolved faster than they are solved. Whether criminal charges against criminals are resolved faster than they are solved. That's what Serbian citizens are interested in. Instead, I listened very carefully, even wrote, heard a lot of accusations. First, that we should replace Vladan Batic because he was not admitted to the communist party. That we should replace him because he tried to organize an emergency congress of the SRS. Well, if Mr Batic were a member of the SRS, he would never be in the DOS government. That we should replace him for a hecler with long pipes. We know gentlemen, we watched on television, and hackers and long pipes in front of this National Assembly. They beat up these heclares and long pipes, and they shot at God by someone's well-read bodyguards. That we should replace him for co-operation with The Hague, which the Dayton Agreement annex on behalf of Serbs from Serbia is committed by Slobodan Milosevic. That Batic is a "financer and chief leader of a gang of armed criminals, whose aim is to kidnap our citizens". Well, among you gentlemen, there are good lawyers. You know it's a serious crime charge. And where is your evidence of this crime? Where's your criminal record of the crime? Instead, we got an explanation -- a member of the SRS who Batic wanted to recruit told me. And that's the argument. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard several more serious accusations that the minister of justice, and some other ministers from the government of Serbia led by hatred, published in the newspaper indictments and overstepped powers. And what happened in May 2000, gentlemen, when no indictment was released in the list "Politika" on May 7th, but a state security file with Mr. Momčel Veljkovic's psychiatric records and Radojko Lukovic from Pozharec, an activist of the Resistance, who was masculinely beaten, then disappeared, so we sought them out in prisons, and eventually accused of murder in an attempt, by the Serbian judiciary. Whether it was an excess of authority, morals, medical ethics, police rules. We heard in the end a quote from a Latin wise man - Cave a signatur - watch out for the marked one. That concludes an hour-long explanation why we should replace the minister. I, however, did not understand and cannot interpret that explanation. If it was a personal insult, the speaker of the assembly should have called. And if the objection applies to Mr Batic's nose, I don't know if it is or isn't, but if it is, then it's the only true accusation you've made in your reasoning, but that's not the reason for the Minister of Justice's replacement. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs... Would you please calm down some MPs?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7734	You wanted to upset them, and now I'm supposed to calm them down.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7735	We of the Democratic Party cannot vote today for the replacement of the Justice Minister, at least not before it is established that the former Justice Ministry has increased the cost of gas by one million dinars, or whoever drank 46,000 liters of gasoline, as determined by budgetary control at the Justice Ministry. What happened to the assets of the sale of cases seized in the court proceedings, which were not paid into the budget but disappeared from the SIPR account in an unknown direction, as determined by budgetary control at the Ministry of Justice. The last one, of course. How did the former justice minister pay off works at the Court of Justice 4.8 million dinars when the labourer put the situation at 2.8 million dinars. Did those two million disappear with someone's lapus and error? Where the warehouse with tons of computer equipment was obtained from 1997 to 2000, according to the budget control report. Gentlemen, it's $4.9 million. Do you know how many computers can be bought for that money? Until he finds out, we can't replace him. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have the last hours of a marathon session that lasted almost a month. The real effort is just ahead of us. On Monday, we have a serious session on Kosovo. We have before us the privatisation law. Regardless of the obstruction, regardless of the unargumented charges, at a daily session, believe me, we'll make things go away. We will give the people what they ask of us, as one of the former speakers said, bread and justice, however much they feared them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7736	Replica, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I'm surprised, Mr. President, that you haven't said a measure of distance from the session after two warnings and taking away words from the previous speaker, who in just two sentences spoke about a subject that is on the agenda today, but that either didn't occur to you, or you have what we've been telling you all along -- a double archaic towards the MPs of the government and MPs of the opposition, and especially the MPs of the SRS. This is especially because the man who spoke so many lies before me, the most severe, the most detestable and defiled accusations, which I think no one has said since the moment this Parliament began to function, has said. On the other hand, he doesn't know the difference between courts and law enforcement authorities, no wonder, many don't know, between what should be criminal and other criminal cases, aside from which he doesn't understand what the judiciary is, but you should have warned him that it's not on the agenda. As for punishment, those sentences were much less and don't tell the people empty stories, because I'm going to tell you now that you lied to the people that someone was taken from the house, I'm telling you, you're lying, as you lied then, because no one was taken out of bed, and you've been making up those stories the whole time. You've been making up stories about how people are being kidnapped, how they won't be able to survive millions and billions. Now check how much it's taken and how it's taken. Is it a large sentence of 5 or 10,000 marks, if you charge someone with murder? Is it a great penalty of 10,000 marks that someone accused Gordan Milosevic, a certain lady, is irrelevant who she is, has nothing to do with the Milosevic family, a woman who was just because she was someone's neighbor accused of murder? Remember, by other laws, which you also know little about, or at all, by other laws, some have been accused and convicted of judicial sentences to a five-month and several-month prison sentence in criminal proceedings, not to mention procedures for compensation and civil-law litigation. As for the gun-wrestling guy...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7738	Mr. Kovacevic, how about a little quieter? Mr. Kovacevic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7739	As far as the guns are concerned, which was spoken of by Mr Popovic, I am telling you this second time - no one has ever died or been injured or seriously injured at the myths, at SRS meetings or in any political event in which the SRS participated. It is in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7740	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7741	I'm counting. You'll let me talk half a minute longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7742	Well, I just let you go half a minute longer, I guess.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7743	No one has ever died, they died at your meetings, and don't talk about the read bodyguards, because your read bodyguards wear them, so they put a gun in your mouth to the head of the hypodromic, Dragoljub Markovic from Surcin, Dragoslav Raznatovic, one of the DS leaders. What do the brothers of Burgius do, whose badge they've got now? The most famous criminals are in Serbia. What are you talking about? Who are you talking about? Now the citizens of Serbia don't know who it's about, and then there will be talk of justice or injustice. You think it's hard. If anything happens to me, they know who did it. And I'm telling you now that they are the most dangerous criminals in Serbia. Whose administration are they under, whose command are they under?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7744	Mr. Wolfie, four minutes and 15 seconds have passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7745	I'm just asking you, that's because you allowed it and it's impossible to respond in four minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7746	So speak faster or shorter. Whether it's possible or not, the Rules of Procedure are set for three minutes, so you do what you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7747	I'd only like to ask you to throw out your cynic incursions, because they don't make any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7748	They wouldn't be if you acted on the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vukic, I warned you that time had expired, after four minutes and 15 seconds, and it was foreseen by the Rules of Procedure for three minutes. And come on, please, object to my intolerance to the SRS, 50% longer than the planned time you spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7749	So you talk half the time, and then you tell me to talk, you talk about four minutes and 10 seconds to this moment. I'm done. So, don't talk for 10 minutes about what's not on the agenda, I'm not going to say, just one of the predecessors, who said that Vladan Batic is the one who should apply the laws - well, it's not Vladan Batic who should apply the laws, it's the one who has to obey the law. Just because you said so, that's why we're looking for a shift from Vladan Batic. That's the point. Thank you. [[Employer Tomislav Nikolic requests the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7750	There's no replica. I didn't give you my word. I won't give you the safe word for the replica, the replica on behalf of the SRS was used by the representative. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: he misread me. Then you answered on what basis? What are you upset about? You answered the line because Mr. Popovic... On what basis did you seek a replica? The Serbian Radical Party is a Proposer. We can't give two replicas on the same basis. You can't get a line on the same basis, you two, it's used right. I can't give you a word, really, on the same basis. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the O.R.: I was misread by Srdja Popovic. I didn't give you my word, please get off the phone, I give you my first warning, Mr. Nikolic. Mr. Nikolic, I'm asking you to leave the pay phone. I didn't give you my word while you were at it. Here, I'll give you 10 seconds to try and convince the viewers that I'm harassing the SRS. I give you a second warning, with a warning that I cannot take away your word, for I have not given it to you, and that the next measure is a distance from the session. (Employer Alexander Vukitch throws out of place.) I give you a warning too, Mr. Wolfie. We still have 25, 26 registered MPs here. It suits me personally so that the viewers can see what you're doing. He wasn't talking about you at all, Mr. Wolf got the replica, and how long are we gonna be like this? Well, you know I do what I have to do. (Employee Tomislav Nikolic will not leave the pay phone.) I'm taking a 15-minute break. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The word is by MP Ivkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7752	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, section 78 of the 1st and 2. "The President of the National Assembly by written means determines the day and hour of the meeting of the National Assembly, with a proposal for the agenda, at least seven days before the day for which the session is called." Item 2: "Extremely, notice of the time of session and agenda can be delivered within a short period of time, with the President of the National Assembly obliged to explain such a procedure at the beginning of the session". Why am I picking up? I would ask the president of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, given the number of debates reported on this point, to reaffirm the agreement with the meeting that was held by the president of the Assembly, vice-presidents and presidents of the parliamentary groups. In fact, it is known that, among other things, the Serbian Unity Party demanded that we discuss Kosovo and Metohija on Monday, and I would like to point out that we were absolutely ready to interrupt the session on Monday, to suspend the examination of the law that we have filed and to immediately discuss Kosovo and Metohija, but we have jointly understood and understood all those present, except for representatives of the Serbian Unity Party, that it is important to give time to the government of the Republic of Serbia to define in co-operation with the federal government that part of the policy that must have certain degrees of freedom, given the specific situation. It is agreed to discuss Kosovo and Metohija on Monday. Since this debate may not be completed today, I ask that an agreement be respected on Monday to discuss Kosovo and Metohija, as agreed, and we will continue the debate afterwards if it does not end today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7753	It can't happen that the debate is over today. It definitely can't be over tonight because there are 20 registered debaters, and there are also those who will apply, and from this morning, there have been 15 debaters speaking. These are the circumstances in which we work. There's a debate going on. I don't think there's any other way than what we agreed on, and we agreed it would be Monday, assuming that this session would be over on Wednesday, so it would be possible Thursday, but there's no way this could end, and we're gonna have to move the session to Tuesday, and we're gonna move this on and we're gonna end this on Monday.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7754	We didn't get any material from the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7755	You'll get it tomorrow morning or Monday morning because the MPs won't be here. The material is prepared, the frames are prepared, it just needs to be divided, but in order for the document not to be sent by mail or through parliamentary groups, it will wait for you here on Monday morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7756	Please, I don't think there should be any reason for this item of the agenda to postpone the session on Kosovo and Metohija. If this is cited as a reason, a good part of the discussion on this agenda will be withdrawn by the Socialist Party of Serbia, and we will end this evening and the debate on Kosovo and Metohija begins on Monday.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7757	I would suggest the same thing to DOS MPs. If DOS MPs join this proposal, that would be good. The People's Messenger Risticevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7758	And DOS MPs are ready to withdraw their applications for discussion and end this item of the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7759	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Batic is fortunate to hear from others what they think of him, about his political action. Usually a man should hear it from others, not that he judges himself. Maybe that's better for him, maybe at some point in honesty, that story about his political activity before, so at the time of the opposition and later, at the time of coming to power, it might, in some ways, be even worse for him. In the pre-election campaign, DOS promised a lot of things that eventually turned out not to be true. Bolshevism ruled this Serbian decade and left deep roots on the soul and severe trauma to people with his injustice. Then when it seemed to us that he slowly began to fade, that some new time was coming, that slowly some human, real values were coming to light, there was a revolution of a new, October, there was a new time, but it was hoping that some DOS promises in that pre-election campaign, especially regarding the depolitisation of the judiciary, education, police, health care, might be fulfilled. No one expected that a Nelson Mendel would be born quickly who, after 27 years of darkness, would have the courage to forgive and, in the interests of the people and the state, forget that he might start his own country and his people for some better tomorrow's time. No one expected anyone to come and say, especially not from DOS -- it was a difficult time -- and those who died and those who survived were fighting for Serbia. Perhaps those who have survived deserve not to be persecuted and not to declare some war criminals, but even heroes and heroes of some time through which one nation and one state have passed. However, we have experienced another beginning, an unfortunate beginning which, as some evil cob of Serbia, once again throws into some similar outlines of one Bolshevism, one hatred, one persecution, ideological exclusion, the persecution of all that is not in some sense related to one ideology or a group of more parties. Turns out, everything they think is against people and states. On one occasion, Mr Batic, in 1994 or 1995, quoted one great wisdom as saying about this speaker: "What guro is born of time does not correct", "which is illegal from the beginning, in time it does not become legal". That's true. Unfortunately, this has happened to us since October 5th. Unlawfully, in some euphoria, it may be brought with rematchism, vengefulness, has gone into illegal abduction, endangerment of some people, abductions outside of institutions and businesses, sparking anything that will one day probably be ashamed of many when passions calm down and when it is realized that the introduction of democracy in Serbia is not possible in such a way. It may be my biggest conviction because Mr Batic may have wanted to be that leader, the first or not to be able to silence his passion, as he says, because of some last time he carried on his soul and because of everything that was going on and using that euphoria he began to violate what he as a lawyer and lawyer should never do. That hatred and negative energy will rule this Serbia for years, and it is the greatest evil this period will bear with it. Pandora's box of hate, rematch, vengefulness will be passed on, unfortunately, to the next. When some next government comes, it's likely in some vindictiveness that we've been through lately. We had examples in 1996, when the Socialists stole from you, so they rewritten the lists, and you had Gonzales come and correct some injustice. Today, unfortunately, the Socialists don't have this Gonzales, but a similar story happens by kidnapping municipalities where they won, won the will of citizens living in these municipalities. Now in some comparison, it might be fair and fair to see what the difference between you and them is. Maybe it's just that Gonzales is the difference, that you have Gonzales, and they haven't, and they haven't, because they've been making lists, and you run and you jam the roads, you run a couple of tractors, you make a scene, and then you make up a reason why the local government needs to change. I can't say, and I'm not interested, and I'm not an expert at entering a court hearing about whose Galenika is, but the fact is that after all these events in Galenica, there were no months of drugs, that imported Chinese drugs, Chinese raw materials, that there was no insulin for months, that the production stood and that, ultimately, the patients did not have it, needed someone to feel and fit, and Mr Batic was one of those who had been in those days and participated in all this. What we could read in the paper and what remains to be cleared up again is that the president of Yugoslavia once signed and said that Mr Batic did not tell the truth about the debate on The Hague. Mr. Kostunica signed the paper and said - Mr. Batic did not tell the truth. It's something very serious when the president of the state blames the minister for not telling the truth. Perhaps in some countries that would be sufficient reason for the minister of justice to resign. The minister of justice responded and denied it. Normally, it's not our place to go into this debate, but apparently someone in it hasn't been telling the truth. When it comes to that depoliticization of the judiciary, there's a completely different story in the field. We had a one-party state for years, we had a spider web that literally choked everything that could have been constructive and independent. That spider web was supposed to be torn up there after October. It has been torn, however, some other spiders are now kniting some new net. Absolutely by the same principles, and with the same one-mindedness, once again a party state is created, it is re-emerged by the one whose party belongs to it, not the one who knows it and what it is worth. Mr. Batic, you mentioned God here, more than once. And on the great panorama it was written - thank God - after those choices. Don't involve God in politics, politics is too far from that. Politics is something that, in any case, God shouldn't have anything to do with it. Especially as God is one for all of us, and not everyone has one. I'm not going in and I don't want to go in and doubt your respect for him at all, I say, yet, there's something we should stop at. When it comes to The Hague, it's already a special story, a sad story, and it can't be justified by anything, except that The Hague is made up, that it's not a court, that it's a Serb dungeon and that it's an amnesty of NATO villains for everything they've done. Let's never say that by delivering some Serbs to The Hague in some way we take off our dirty cheeks for something that we have done as a people. At this age, we the tragic ones who were, we are not as guilty as the people. And anyone who is a member of this people who says that we bear any blame does not want good for his people. We are simply in the whirlwind of the hatred that has been supported from the outside, the hatreds that have been hidden for decades in some communist delusions and madnesss that have been activated, only as a people have paid for this naiveness that followed us since World War II. (President: Time. I'm done, Mr. President. What happened to Mr. Batic and what may or may not happen to him, which he wanted to be first in front of, the runner, there's a Russian proverb that just says -- cocks that go first, unfortunately, and end up in a pot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7761	The People's Messenger Miroljub Veljkovic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7762	I was really moved by Branislav Ivkovic's concern in front of the SPS parliamentary group and the concern of this Risticic in front of the DOS parliamentary group for the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. Especially if I remember what these two political groups had to do with the adoption of the Chernomidin-Ahtisari plan and the shame and assembly capitulation. So much for that. Dear People's MPs, Mr Tomislav Nikolic has documented and reasoned a proposal by the SRS parliamentary group on the replacement of Justice Minister Vladan Batic. The power of these arguments is such that I do not think there are any MPs in this House, who at the heart of the state, the national interest and the perception of democracy, who will not support our request for Vladan Batic to be a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to vote for mistrust. I will try to explain with three slightly different aspects the SRS proposal why Vladan Batic must leave. It's the first principled nature. The credibility of the Serbian government and its prime minister, Zoran Djindjic, is at stake. In his address as prime minister for forming the government, Zoran Djindjic promised in this assembly that the government would not lie and steal. I, however, also expressed my doubts about his claims from this pay phone, but the congregation majority apparently believed and gave him the mandate to form a government. The ministry of justice's portfolio in the government was won by Vladan Batic. It is understood that Mr Djindjic's promise also applies to Mr Batic, since he is his choice. Mr Batic, as he became minister, violates both, repeats both promises by Mr Djindjic. My predecessors have presented a sea of examples and evidence that Mr Batic is not telling the truth in public. We have hundreds of examples that he's done this in the last 120 days. Here's the "Today" statement that a freezer with corpses, etc. was found in the lake near Koki's boat. etc. He taxed it. The May 24th newspaper "Today" said: "Secondly Vice-President So Nova Varoš Lek Kolasinac has demented for "Today" that at the bottom of the lake in Kokin's Brod near Nova Varoša there is a truck of freezers with corpses of people from Kosovo and Metohija, and Lek Kolasinac added that he and Parliament Speaker Nova Varoš Milojko Šunjarević received confirmation from the chief of the pleasure MUP. It seems Mr Batic is getting information from Natasha Kandic and Carla del Ponte. He doesn't trust the official authorities of the state, but here he misinformed the public and isn't telling the truth. That when I say he's not telling the truth, that this censor behind my back wouldn't warn me, our people have another term for it, and that's why I won't use it. My predecessors then presented the sea of evidence that Mr Batic was illegally taking possession of material goods. And for that unlawful acquisition of material goods, our people have a different term. Let's mention "Gallenika", "The flag", TV "Palmu" again, etc. After such evidence, Prime Minister Djindjic is on the move, or he was not telling the truth in his speech in this assembly or Batic is not acting in line with the newly established morale of the government of the Republic of Serbia. One of them should resign, then. It's, I hope, a matter of principle and a matter of morality. The second aspect is the relationship between Vladan Batic and the legislative authority. The relationship can be briefly characterized as non-democratic and violent. Vladan Batic as an executive authority representative, I stress as a representative of the executive government is giving a mandate to the National Assembly, the one who elected him as minister to change the Rules of Procedure on Labour, to abolish television transmissions, etc. Vladan Batic, as an executive from the speaker, threatens MPs with prosecutions and arrests. Vladan Batic, as a representative of the executive government, spoke to the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party about 20 days ago on his way out of this room, with this door -- do not worry, for all of you, I have prepared a warm, beautiful room in Central Prison, for all of you there is room for you. Let him deny it. Since he's a God-fearing man, I hope he respects God's laws that say - don't lie. That's what Vladan Batic dared to tell the MPs. In the end, Vladan Batic here at the assembly building dared to attack the president of the Assembly, Mr. Marsican, a few days ago, which does not end television transmissions. Ten MPs were present, and let them deny it here. If the minister of justice in any democratic state dared to make a much lighter gesture towards his parliament, not to be replaced by the parliament in seconds, but simply run over by the public. You DOS MPs are on your own democracy exam. It is your chance to show the people that you are true Democrats and support our proposal to replace Vladan Batic, thus showing every future minister who tries to behave with the National Assembly and the MPs how it will go. It's especially important that you go to the opposition very quickly and that you don't have a radical minister threatening to pack you all up in Central Prison, so think about this. It's a little tight around your neck, Mr. Battice, it's tightening, it's tightening. The third aspect is from a domain of pure medicine. If all statements by Mr Batic from the period when he was an opposition are analysed, then from the period when DOS took power and finally from the period when Vladan Batic was in power, it is obvious that there has been a terrible transformation in the personality of Vladan Batic. Part of the evidence was given to us by Batic himself by reading those letters, which he wrote to international institutions and some influential figures in the world. So that's what he was reading today. Apparently, there was a major psychological breakdown, as if we had two Vladin Batic, one in opposition and one in power. Dear People's MPs, such a broken personality is obviously not, I stress, for medical reasons, capable of performing the most responsible state functions. As a national MP, I insist that the government of the Republic of Serbia deliver to us the results of the medical examination of all members of the government, including Mr Batic, as soon as possible. We all know that government members have conducted medical examinations due to a promise made in the election campaign. Why checks if the public and MPs don't know about these results? Normally, I don't think you can provide us with details from these medical files, but just one brief report. For example, this minister and he are in a physical and mental state healthy to perform the most responsible state functions. For example, Vladan Batic is mentally and physically healthy and can fully be responsible for performing extremely important and high state functions. That's enough for us Serbian radicals and I insist we get it delivered. It is also common practice throughout the democratic world. I openly suspect that there are major health problems with Mr Batic, and if not, I insist that the Vladan deny me, especially because of the fact that this man is going armed with a heclare and is running some underground groups. Mr. Batic, in my opinion, is a latent danger to other people's safety. I don't know what's offensive about that. I've been looking for what you promised in the election campaign and already done. His own statement two days ago from this assembly pay phone, when discussing the protection of minors, about paraphrasing the statement, as the former government, Vladan Batic, said, took care of minors by packing them into the freezers and throwing them into the lake, says that his mental problems were escalating.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7763	Mr. Veljkovic, I'm really warning you not to finish, but to watch your behavior. This is not respect for the Rules of Procedure, this is domestic education.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7764	If I have said anything offensive - Mr Djindjic himself said, it has been conveyed by the media that all members of the government have carried out medical examinations and I have not said anything offensively, nor am I looking for details from these medical records. I request a simple report to this National Assembly and the public whether all such medical examinations have the responsibility to perform high national functions. This is, after all, practice in all democratic countries, from the United States of America, which are your role models, and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7765	Replica, Mr. Ivkovic, then Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7766	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I really hate to go out for a pay phone, but I have to, because the Chernomidin plan - Ahtisaari, which is really not on the agenda today, is mentioned in the context of Kosovo and Metohija and the concerns of the Socialist Party of Serbia. I just want to remind everyone here that the senselessnesss of the old American administration and Mrs. Madeline Albright were rampant at the premises of the former Yugoslavia and escalated in 1998 and 1999. This madness has been opposed by the entire people of Serbia and Yugoslavia and has just forced those people who have been savaged (who, thank God, are no longer in the US administration, unfortunately, are some in Europe who are "handing us" now), to go to the Security Council and vote in the Security Council Resolution 1244, which is now our only chance, with our unique approach in application, to make Kosovo and Metohija a part of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia at all. We have no choice but to ask, all of us in this room, no half-determination, but only to apply Article 9. Resolution 1244, to ensure public order, peace and security and that all exiles and refugees return to Kosovo and Metohija and only then be the elections. So if anyone resents that we fought that fight, I like it because I think it's a compliment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7767	The word is Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7768	On the occasion of the previous discussion, I remembered His "Gorek Wreath", there it says: "Blessed is he who goes mad early, for a lifetime he is happy." In time, the coalition partner submitted the SRS proposal and the leader of the Yugoslav Left coalition partner gave its court on its coalition partner, on the SRS and on Vojislav Seselj. According to Mira Markovic, this is how I publicly present the newspaper and read literally, not the fragments from certain newspaper texts, in the way they frizz at me: "as people even in his party do not see that such and so aggressiveness is deeply pathological, that it is an expression of some physiological or psychological weakness and depravity." Then he goes on to say, "No, Seselj is not a Serb, he is a Turk in the most primitive historical edition, and maybe he is just not a man."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7769	Mr. Batiq, I warn you not to use these means.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7770	No, I'm just reading. I didn't say that. Though, to be honest, I don't think he's either Serbian or male. "Night and Day", pages 252 and 253 of that famous text. Ladies and gentlemen, as I read the paper in an integral form, this is "The Great Serbia", then a newspaper of the Serbian Chetnic Movement, the date of November 1990 and the text -- Serbian Chetniks ready to fight under the flag of the UN, a demonstration of the Serbian Chetnic Movement in front of the US Embassy, 1. Ten. 1990s. The text reads: "Brother America, continuing the tradition of the Serbian uncle who saved the landing of your airmen and officers in World War II, we Serbian Chetniks want to help you again. This time we send expeditions of Chetniks to Iraq to help you fight this vermin." Iraq was a vermin for you at the time, and now you're writing epics about Saddam Hussein. So, this Corps of ours, in fact, was only the predecessor of a vast Chetnik army under the command of the Duke of Vojislav Seselj, who is ready to move to the Middle East at any moment. I have to say something else, on the front page of the same newspaper, Vojislav Seselj with the late Duke Đujic, but also the late Duke Djujic, realizing the mistake he made, sends an important statement and message to all Serbs on November 1st 1998 and says, "In time" (he was from Dinara, speaking ikova), "the historic celebrations of the 600-year anniversary of the fateful battle in Kosovo, we all seemed to have begun to enjoy the national political skies of the Serbian people. At the celebration, a million Serbs and Serbs participated in Kosovo itself with their clergy, bishops and patriarchs. Among them appeared Dr Vojislav Seselj, who had already been behind them for years of anti-communist attitude and work, which is why he was in communist prisons. We gave him receptions, choirs, and congregations in the Serbian settlements of America and Canada, and later in Australia, England, and several other free European states. In this business, the movement of the Serbian Chetniks of Ravna Gora in which I was president, in particular, advocated, and we gave him an honorary escort on his trips to America and Canada, that he spoke before the masses of Serbs and Serbs, who gave him richly money. Some say that's how he raised a quarter of a million dollars, which can be true. They also claim that he left a substantial amount of contribution in foreign-country banks. One of my acquaintances, Rodoljub, says he left some of the money he didn't take with him in two banks in California." Then Duke Momchilo Djujic writes...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7771	Mr. Batic, it's five minutes. I can't give you more time than I can give Mr. Wolf. It's been five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7772	"At the same time, I ask my Serb family to forgive me for my unintentional error in the appointment of Seselj as the Chetnik Duke." I'm finishing up here, since I mentioned it, you know what, there's no first signed on the list of promoters here, because he's been doing elections in Croatia lately. This is a list from Dubrovnik's Vjesnik, for Dubrovnik County. Here are those supported by Vojislav Seselj and the first on the Croatian Party list is Karmello Seselj, Croatia. Already...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7773	Mr. Batic, I'm really asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7774	The 7th on the HDZ list is Nino Seselj, they even wrote nationalities here, I don't know why, but it says everywhere what they are by nationality. Nino Seselj, Croat. Then, the municipality of Livno, the Croatian party of rights, first on the list Denis Seselj, Croatia. So, gentlemen, you've made the wrong place to argue. You should be in charge of the debate in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-24-0.u7775	This concludes tonight's session and I'll tell you why. There's no replica on the replica. (Tomislav Nikolic: There is no point, is it possible that you are such a man, how are you not ashamed? Please sit down, I beg you most kindly. At your insistence, you asked that Minister Batic had no right to report at all times, except as a replica. There's no replica on the line, Mr. Nikolic. It can't be answered to the replica. At your request, please... (Tomislav Nikolic: He was not on my tail... Then who? (Tomislav Nikolic: Well, I don't know who. We can't spin circles like that, your MP is challenging replicas... (Tomislav Nikolic: As you are not ashamed, I have not been behind the pay phone for two hours. You'll get it on Monday, it's not worth it now. (Tomislav Nikolic: I won't, I want to talk now.) What am I supposed to do now? (Tomislav Nikolic: Shame on you. No, I was wrong, but you'll get it on Monday, what do we do now? (Tomislav Nikolic: That really doesn't make sense. You'll get it on Monday, I was wrong, you'll get it on Monday. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I'd like to inform you that according to official records, this is some old record, and today's session is attended by 127 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. There are 127 MPs present in the hall, so I find that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that they are prevented from attending the sittings of the following MPs: Miodrag Stamenković, Zaharija Trnavčević, Ratimir Svirčević, Laslo Tord, Istvan Išpanovic, Teodora Vlahović, Mihajlo Marković, Vladan Jovičić, Dragan Milentjevic, Petar Mišić, Zoran Mićović, Veselin Janković, Milka Marinković, Dragisa Marinković, Atila Juhas, Nada Kolundžija, Srdjan Sikimić, Branislav Pomorički, Zoran Bošković, Anton Biači and Vasilija Pavić, and in the morning Radmilo Milosevic, Branimir Trajković, Siniša Mitrović, Bora Stanimirović, Bratislav Đurić. The delay was announced by Milos Lučić, Pal Karolj, Mujo Mukovic and Slavoljub Matic. I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend the session of the President, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move on to the 25th point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL FOR THE PUBLICATION OF THE UNTRUDMENTAL Ministry of Justice and Local Self-Government Dr Vladana BATIĆ (addition) According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
