ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 174 MPs attend today's session. Please confirm the quorum. I find there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I inform them that the following MPs will be absent: Srdjan Sikimić, Višnja Nežić, Milos Lukić, Išpanovic Istvan, Milos Lučić, Stanko Kovacevic, Nada Kolundžija. In the morning, Radmilo Milosevic, Branko Gligoric and Mihajlo Markovic will be away and Boris Karaičić and Dusan Budisin will be late. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. You received the minutes of the 17th, 18, 19, 20 and 24 September 2001 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. Is there any objection to the record?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12899	The minutes from the previous session, on the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the third paragraph, which describes the reason for my exclusion from the session, reads: "Stjeto Dragisic, who was later given two warnings because he violated the provisions of Article 101. Rules of Procedure, took a word and gave a five-minute break." The provisions of Article 101 say: "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. It is not allowed to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons." These were not the reasons why the President of the Assembly took my word, because in what I was saying at that session, I did not insult anyone, I did not use offensive expressions, I did not address anyone, and even with no respect, I was talking about the arguments I had to explain. I didn't hurt the dignity of the National Assembly. I have here a copy of the stenographic notes from that session that shows that the president of the National Assembly took my word because I'm not sticking to the subject of the agenda. I quote, "But today it's not on the agenda, it's the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly." To my explanation, he adds, "Please don't leave the agenda topic." The third time he said, "But I am obliged to give a warning when you do not respect the Rules of Procedure, so I do." So, the official reminder that the president gave me was that the reason for taking away the words was because the president felt that I was not holding on to a subject that was on the agenda, and not, as it stands in the record, an insult to the Parliament's dignity, an insult to a person, a disrespect to others with respect. I'll remind you what I was talking about. I was talking about a Rules of Procedure that was on the agenda at the time, and I was talking about the reasons why this Rules of Procedure was proposed, or its amendments, to the Assembly. The causes, in my opinion, are that most want to hide from the public and from the MPs of the amendment they were to perform in the Constitution proposed by a group of experts whose member is Zorica Radovic, SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica's wife, and that these changes to the Constitution of Serbia are distributed to several federal units, more specifically - six federal units. I mentioned that this is about Vojvodina, the city of Belgrade, that it is about south-west and south-west Serbia, Shumadija with Podunavlje and Kosovo and Metohija. I warned that in Serbia, a ruling family oligarchy is being restored to change the constitutional arrangement of the state...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12900	Mr. Dragosic, please stick to the subject. It's been four minutes, and you're not talking about what you've been reporting for - you've called to comment on the minutes of the session of the eighth extraordinary session and you've completely missed, you're talking about the minutes of the first session of the Second Regular Session, held on 2, 3, 4 and 8 October. Please keep an eye on the record you're talking about. You've completely missed the record. Besides, you're talking about what's not on the agenda. Don't make it look like I'm being mean to anyone again, and neither do you, but you don't even know what you're talking about. Please bring an end to your presentation, which we will put to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12901	Once you get sober at the beginning of the session, it doesn't give you the right to salt other people's minds, and secondly, that record, which we now need to adopt, at the last session, when you were warned that you broke the Rules of Procedure because you didn't put it up for adoption, you told the assembly majority that you didn't violate the Rules of Procedure. I may have been wrong about the record, but now it's definitely about the adoption of the minutes. Please let me finish what I had. You've now spent another minute and a half on these four minutes convincing yourself who's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12902	How are we going to decide on remarks from the eighth session, when you are making objections to a completely different minutes, from the second session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12903	When we decide on that record, we'll decide on my objections to that record. You're not gonna forget my remarks until we get to that record, are you? Or are you saying that today is not the day when the minutes from the previous session are adopted at all? So it is clear that the service that was making the record, whether on purpose or by accident, has completely mistaken the reasons for my disfellowshipping from the session. It once again speaks in favour of the new family oligarchy being created here in Serbia. It is obvious that the president of the assembly and the services under his control has been tasked with preventing anyone who wants to talk about it. The last session, in which the Rules of Procedure was adopted, was held, the way the president led the session, as he protected the character and the work of the new dictator in Serbia, as he protected his wife's work - tells us that we will have a dictatorship such as Serbia has not remembered so far. That should be said again, in favour of making it clear to everyone, and hopefully to those who are sitting in most DOS today, who are still not aware of it. Constitutional changes...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12904	Mr. Darling, I give you a warning. You've come forward to announce your remarks on the record, and after seven minutes, you're still talking about what has nothing to do with those remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12905	You, President, obviously don't understand what I'm talking about. I'm talking about an argument in favor of my claim that your service, apparently on purpose, was wrong when it cited the reasons for my exclusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12906	Mr. Dragisic, it can't be the subject of debate. I need you to point out a discrepancy with the record...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12907	If you kept your mouth shut, it wouldn't be the subject of debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12908	I warn you, after the first warning has been made, either highlight your remarks on the record or end the debate on what is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12909	First, you need to know one thing: a man can't discuss himself. I can discuss with someone who has an argument. If you call this a debate, it's just you and me in the debate, but not about the topic I'm talking about, but about what you want to do to yourself, to take away my word, not to let me talk. That's all the discussion's about. Then you'll say how tolerated you are. Please let me finish what I wanted to say. Indeed, you are exaggerating in what you do. You're trying here to look nice. To all MPs here, especially the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, you stick to the label that they are rude and rude, and you, when you curse MPs....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12910	Only when they really are, like you at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12911	Really, you're starting to exaggerate. Your behavior now crosses the limits of any tolerance. When you tell Serbian Radical Party MPs that they are rude, you should remember that you are cursing the MPs, that you are insulting the MPs. You even said that certain MPs have headaches that serve as the only proof that they have a head. That's your word. Don't play someone here...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12912	You write me a letter, and now you're talking about what you've come to answer for.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12913	I don't write letters. You should write a letter, send it to psychoanalysis, see what the experts say about that letter. If you want to be the president of the Assembly that all MPs will respect, then you must act like one, to be respected by the MPs, both yours and your opposition. You can't act like you're playing someone who's trying to entertain the audience and those who watch them. That's all you can do is make a fool of yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12914	Mr. Darling, I'm giving you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12915	What happens after the second warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12916	Read it in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12917	No, you tell me. I'm telling you, you're really exaggerating. Your violent behavior at the place where you sit simply cannot be tolerated anymore. I'm waiting to talk. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12918	Try to interest MPs in exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12919	I don't want to be interested in anyone in this room at all. My goal is to say what I'm about to say. Whether it's interested or not, that's not my problem. Your problem is to secure order in the O.R. This isn't a theater, this is a assembly. It's your job to secure order in the O.R. If you'd let me talk, I'd have been in my place a long time ago. Mr. President, since this seems to be still of interest to you, here, let me explain to you how this creates a new family oligarchy in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12920	Mr. Dragosic, you already have two warnings. You just said yourself that you're going to talk about what you didn't answer for and what's not on the agenda. You've come forward for your remarks on the record. After two warnings, you yourself point out that you will violate the Rules of Procedure. I warn you of possible consequences, for which you yourselves want to be carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which are: confiscation of words, away from the session because of rude behaviour...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12921	What was so rude about it?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12922	I understand that this is your political strategy, but you asked me what was next, and I answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12923	Okay. Now tell me what was rude about what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12924	You said you'd talk about things that aren't on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12925	And that's rude?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12926	That's what you said. Look at the record yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12927	And that's rude?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12928	It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You can only talk about what...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12929	So that's rude.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12930	It's not rude.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12931	Then why did you say I was rude?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12932	Please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12933	Don't put anything on me right now so you can tell me to keep going. You can't act like one. If you want us to respect you as president, speak only of what you are authorized to do, you are not authorized to give any instruction to the Members. You're starting to exaggerate. So you can work in your party, cafes, you can go anywhere, but in this congregation you can't. Maybe that's how you can do it with your MPs. You can't do it with other MPs. If you can't say what was rude in what I said, then at least it's the elemental decency to apologize, because you lied. You said I was rude. Come on, explain to me what I said rudely. Either explain it or apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12934	You didn't go to a pay phone to have a dialogue with me. Shut up, Mr. People's Parliament. If you asked, listen to the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12935	First of all, you can't talk to me like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12936	It's rude exactly what you're doing. It is rude not to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since this is not respecting the institution of the state. That's exactly what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12937	You're making it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12938	I'm asking you to finish your statement on your remarks on the record, or I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12939	You're making up arguments. You can't tell anyone or me to shut up. If that's not what my father or my superior tells me, neither can you. (President: obviously, he missed it. The only one who is rude in this congregation is you. And if this assembly has a shred of rudeness or what you're about to say -- circus atmospheres, you're the main culprit, because you tolerate that atmosphere. Instead of letting me finish what I was about to say, you've turned an objection to the record into a 17-minute debate. In those 17 minutes, we could've already moved on to the agenda. Your rudeness is here without an example. The former president of the Assembly, who was far more intelligent than you, knew how to behave on that chair. The voices are incomprehensible. I know he's most interested in the Constitution, but he's being nice. Pretend he's not interested. For those who have forgotten, the Constitution was written by Zorica Radovic, who was a member of the so-called "Zorica Radovic". Expert groups. The Tastus, according to this model, the Republic of Serbia must be divided into six federal units. Federal units will have...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12940	Mr. Ambassador, I take your word... Here you go, Mr. Vuchurovic, but please don't miss as your colleague on the record. [[Sagar.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12941	Mr. President, you're trying to be funny again. Whether I miss the topic or not, we'll see when I get to the pay phone. What you've done is rude, and I give you a warning. I have objections to the minutes of the eighth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of Serbia in 2001, held on 17, 18, 19, 20 and 24, if what you asked for. The minutes on page 25 read: "In the course of a single search, MPs have challenged the following proposals of the Committee on Justice and Administration and V.D. The Republic Public Prosecutor (if you calm them down, I'll finish this in 15 minutes, if you don't calm them down, I'll speak for an hour, so you see how it goes) for the selection of judicial officials, and that," and then the names of MPs who have challenged the choice of individual judges and prosecutors are listed. These names do not contain my name anywhere, and I have challenged at least 20 candidates for judges and prosecutors from this booth, and according to a copy of the stenogram, it is said - since I personally do not know the candidates about them, I will not speak about them personally but names, so I listed them: Zlatko Šulović - Valjević, Radiša Matić - Kragujevac, Mirko Radosavljević - Kruševac, Olivera Sekulić - Šošdean, Veronika Vencel, Vojislav Isailović, Gordana Stojanović, Olivera Todorovic, Branislava Vuković, Snezana Janjic, Borisvoje Žunić, Aleksandar Panić, Mirjana Tadic and many of them. There's no record of that. To make things worse, all of them were decided in the package, not individually, as ordered by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You will now say that I did not explicitly ask to be voted on individually. Of course I wasn't looking. That's understood. Anyone to whom you mention a name, to whom you pronounce a name for this speaker and to make arguments that make it impossible to be elected, must be voted separately. So the choice of those I read, as well as Aleksandar Panic from Titel, Mirjana Tadic and Korhec Tamas, who was not chosen because someone else challenged his choice, was not done in a legally valid manner. That's my remark. Here, three minutes and I'll get off the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12942	I'm putting Mr. Vukurovic's remarks on the vote. Please plead. For 36, against 131 abstentions, three did not vote 25, a total of 195 MPs. I find the record not being adopted. Anyone else have any objections to the record? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12943	I'd like to make a note of the record. Namely, here's the thing. I challenged more candidates, about 21. I said here, and now I'm saying, I'm contesting them because they choose first for the president of the court. So they're elected judge and president of the court right now. I have proposed that judges be elected first in the Assembly, and later on, the President of the Court. Namely, what's this about? Turns out I'm contesting everything, that I'm the most professional, etc. No, I just said in principle that I was contesting these candidates, and among them one was not elected -- and if that one were to answer, I would consider it an ugly word to speak of him. However, it would be good for this record to say why I challenged these candidates.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12944	What's to stand? (The emissary addresses the president directly and gives an explanation. And? I'm putting Mr. Marjansky's remarks on the plea, please vote. For 31, against 124, abstentions 7, not voted 32, a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this remark. Anyone else have any objections to the record? If not, I am voting on the minutes of the session of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, held on 17, 18, 19, 20 and 24 September 2001. For 151, against 21, there were no abstentions, no vote 24, a total of 196. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the eighth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001 by majority. You received the minutes of the first session of the second regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, held 2, 3. 4 and 8 October 2001. We heard one of the remarks. Mr Dragisic made remarks on this record, so please make this remark known by your vote, and then we will hear if there are any other remarks on the minutes from this session. For 19, against 132 abstentions, there was no vote of 45, a total of 196. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this objection to the record. Does anyone else report any objections to the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular Session? The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12945	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 85, I am making remarks to the minutes, particularly on the 13th and 14th pages of the minutes that have been sent to us and I consider the responsible presidents and secretaries of the National Assembly, who are responsible for both the authenticity of the minutes and the legality of the work of the National Assembly, because they have not entered into the minutes relevant data on the work of the sittings and the decisions made contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which means illegal. I draw my remarks to the minutes from which the printed text of the Rules of Procedure, the consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure, was drawn up, in accordance with the regular number of members of the Rules of Procedure who were illegally adopted, and according to these members of the Rules of Procedure today and at the next sessions, until this proposal is brought down in the Constitutional Court, we will be working illegally. The first remark, on page 13, reads that the National Assembly illegally adopted the amendment of Article 47, in addition to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, which was not at all the subject of the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the MP whose amendment you accepted and entered the minutes to become an integral part of the proposal for a decision has submitted an amendment to a member of the Rules of Procedure which has not been amended at all by the Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. Instead of being rejected because it proposes amending the Rules of Procedure, rather than amending the decision you adopted that day, even the Legislative Committee, which is the only committee required to worry about the legality of decision-making, has found that the amendment is legally possible. The amendment you adopted has become an integral part of the Rules of Procedure now and has not been legally possible and should have been warned by the National Assembly president and the National Assembly secretary. That's why I'm contesting this part of the record as part of a session that's been illegally held. That was the first remark. Second objection...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12946	Mr. Nikolic, I must remind you most of all of my friendships. It is the following - when the remarks to the record are pointed out then there must be a discrepancy of the minutes with the facts, a disagreement with what happened at the session, but we cannot debate, nor decide on any violations of the Rules of Procedure. It's something else entirely. So, you may disagree with the decisions of the National Assembly, but if they are faithfully passed on in the record, then it is not an objection to the record. Please consider this further exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12947	I have two things to notice. Don't speak friendly to me anymore, because your actions towards our party and our MP group are not friendly and I don't want to be different from the members of my parliamentary group. Second, I warned you at the outset that during the session your duty was also at the advice of the Secretary of the National Assembly to ensure that the session of the National Assembly was legally held. You, Mr. President, have failed all the violations of the Rules of Procedure and allowed one act, by which this assembly still stands today, to be adopted in an illegal manner. It was the duty of the Secretary of the National Assembly of yours, for you are concerned about the record, to state in the record which provisions have been changed by amendments, and they are not lawful. You have some provisions here that haven't been proposed to the amendments at all. How come you don't warn us in the record, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12948	That record thing has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12949	There are gods. We adopted amendments by MPs Tomislav Panajotovic and Dragan Pavlovic, who said one thing. After that, the amendments of MP Vojko Tomic, who spoke second, and then adopted amendments to the Legislative Committee, an unauthorized committee that spoke third, past the provisions and amendments of Tomislav Panajotovic and Dragan Pavlovic. You want me to tell you one of those provisions? For example, you said that a member of the government has the right to get a word whenever he asks for it and is not subject to exposure restrictions. Mr Tomislav Panajotovic suggested something completely different: he suggested he could get a word over the line and not have time for exposure. You have adopted that the draft act can speak for an unlimited period of time, and this has not been part of the amendment that has become an integral part of the Rules of Procedure's proposal. Don't convince me it shouldn't have been the subject of the record. At the end of the session, the president of the DSS parliamentary group and read out of his head some amendment to the Legislative Committee. Shouldn't you have warned him, when you already know how to warn me, to say - Mr. Michael, you're not authorized by this agenda point to speak on behalf of the Legislative Committee. The second thing is not that the Legislative Committee should determine the consolidated text of one member of the proposal, but that was exclusively the Administrative Committee. They're your double arches. You even said - we're adopting the amendment and that's what Mr. Dejan Mihaylov told you. It's all in the stenographic notes, Mr. President. The end of the National Assembly session, where amendments were adopted, I suppose, of the Legislative Committee, because a person who was not authorized to speak on his behalf appeared to be like a cowboy sitting.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12950	Mr. Nikolic, I ask you to start talking about what you have reported for, to make your remarks to the record and to propose amendments to the MPs as it should be, so that the National Assembly can decide on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12951	I point out the illegal work of the National Assembly that you kept quiet and even encouraged it, you gave your word. You said, "We're waiting for a report from the Administrative Board," and then you said, "Here's Mr. Michael's word on behalf of the Legislative Committee."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12952	But you, Mr. Nikolic, can put it in the motion to dismiss the president of the National Assembly, noting that he is working illegally, unconsciously, etc., but I ask you to talk about what is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12953	When you see it, you'll be ashamed to even exist, what you've said for the past year. The proposal is material that the National Assembly of Serbia has not dealt with for you. So let me wrap up my remarks on the record, Mr. President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12954	And with a concrete proposal of what the MPs need to adopt eventually.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12955	So you have allowed illegal amendments to the essential essential provisions of the Rules of Procedure which have already been made before the amendments adopted. I had problems Thursday, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, with a service organised by the National Assembly secretary, who has three times returned amendments to the draft laws on the agenda today. This Rules of Procedure is quite unspeakable right now. You don't know who's putting up with the amendments anymore. You would say the MPs submit, and on the other hand the amendments have only a parliamentary group. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I have submitted amendments, determined which MPs will be the rapporteurs...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12956	Mr Nikolic, despite two warnings, I give you my first warning officially because we are not talking about the Rules of Procedure, we are talking about the minutes. You may disagree with the Rules of Procedure, but if the record is consistent with what is and how it was in the National Assembly, then all you have to talk about is that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12957	So, since you've already told me one, I'm going to ask my family to endure a little bit, and you're going to say the second and the third, but I have to say that the Assembly has become a place where there is no law anymore. This is a crime scene. You forcefully adopted the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and you justify it with a record of the session of the National Assembly, although you are aware that your original proposal was so unarranged, that you had to change it further during the session itself that the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party would not have the right to speak for this speaker. I'm just warning you, if you're obliged to provide legality in the work of the National Assembly, don't make up any warnings to me that tells you when all the National Assembly has not done according to the law and has adopted one act. The act will simplify the adoption of the law and even this very problematic labour law on the agenda of this session of the National Assembly. How do we tell Serbian citizens that we will adopt the laws in the legal manner provided for, if the Rules of Procedure we are working on do not adopt in the legal manner provided for, in the rules of procedure envisaged. It is important that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President, are violated, and you did not enter that in the minutes of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'd be ashamed to do that. If the president of the National Assembly were a Serbian radical, he would not have allowed himself to be proposed so much by the nose and ears, and would not have allowed his name to be mentioned as the name of the man who made the circus out of this assembly. You said it well this morning, and you're not saying you're the manager of that circus. So please, Mr. President... (Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: "Don't knock anymore, leave me alone so you won't have to deal with me." He will give me Milka, and you will not be able to justify your sins in Pozega, yes, yes, those of all nature, those of your hurt. That's why I'm warning you, and you're giving me notices today based on a Rules of Procedure that hasn't been adopted in accordance with the law. These warnings will result in other consequences for the material security of my family, but I will do so retroactively with interest to collect, National Assembly President, from this rotten government, which today will have a major exam in front of the MPs of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12958	I should put it to a vote, however, as there was no suggestion of what should be entered into the record, I actually have nothing to put to the vote. No, there are objections to the Rules of Procedure that you agree with or disagree with, but there are no objections to the minutes. You've been saying ten, twelve minutes without a concrete proposal on what needs to be changed in the record, so I have nothing to put to the vote. Does anyone else have any objections to the record? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12959	My remarks are even more concrete than Tomislav Nikolic's remarks. You did not enter in the record that the Rules of Procedure had been amended in an anti-business way. He had to make a record of the adoption of an amendment to a member of the Rules of Procedure that was not intended at all to be amended according to the change and supplementation project. That's the point. Whatever you're doing behind my back, you're only talking about yourself, not me, and you can make endless warnings and punish them with money, you can't shut your mouth to the SRS. The minutes must say that the National Assembly voted to accept the amendments of MP Dragan Jocic to a member of the Rules of Procedure who, by the original project for amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure, was not intended to change at all. Instead of being the President of the National Assembly, as soon as any MP draws attention to such a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure, you immediately take steps to correct it, and this can only be corrected by putting aside the decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, you are trying to play with the patience of the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia, by distracting the speakers and tearing your hair into four. Whether you have been made aware that the Rules of Procedure have been broken, whether you have been made aware that his amendment has been carried out in an anti-business way, it has been made clear to you that it has not been established in the record and you pretend to understand nothing. Of course, you can vote and reject this, you can throw it all away by voting, but only by strengthening the intensity of the breach of the legal order, thus strengthening the law that rules Serbia, and not by bringing things into order.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12960	There was also no concrete proposal to change, there was no suggestion that it should be thrown out in the minutes, and that should be in the minutes. It's read, recorded, and then entered into the record. You don't understand what is done when the record is adopted, or what the record is. What can I put to the vote here? I'm bound by the Rules of Procedure to put it to a vote, please. Does anyone else have any objections to the record? According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12961	You are required to put my objection to the record of the vote. My remark was that it had not been found writtenly that the National Assembly had voted the amendment of MP Dragan Jocic to a member of the Rules of Procedure who, according to the amendment and supplementation proposal, had not been scheduled to change at all. It's an extended sentence, it's my objection to the record, and I've been very clear before. Instead of making those faces behind my back, you should listen to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12962	Where's that supposed to stand? Wait, I guess you're quite clear on how the record debate is being held. The other side, the other side, the other side, and the other side, where is that supposed to fit? Okay, I'm putting MPs on a plea, but they still need to know what they're saying. For 51, against 115, a abstentioned one, did not vote 34, a total of 201. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this objection to the record. Does anyone else have any objections to the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12963	On page 6 of the minutes, it reads: "Before voting on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic has requested the establishment of the quorum. Since the Elctron voting system was not in place, the president called on the service to make a count of the MPs. At that time, MPs belonging to the SRS have left the hall, and by electronic means it has been determined that there is a quorum for work and decision-making." This is obvious proof that you are all using forgeries, what you are doing, even the official document that you forge the record of this congregation in such a way that you do not state the facts as was happening in the congregation. It was not a malfunction in the electronic system, but it was self-initiatively declared by the president of the Assembly, as he often does and often resorts to, so that he could manipulate the number of votes, with a statement of MPs, with all of us who are in the Assembly. It was true, and it was necessary in the record to stand, that at the proposal of the president of the assembly, the count was approached, not to invent and say what was not happening at all at that session. It is something that is characteristic of the work of this parliament, when it presides, or when it is chaired by a man who has the manners of a matchmaker, a man who has the manners of a pickpocket, because there are manners that apply to this species and to that strain of people. If someone pulls a wallet out of someone's pocket, if someone cheats on a ball they hide under matches, then they answer to the law, and the President of the Assembly keeps doing it by cheating on us all in a much worse, much more ground-floor way than people on the street do. Secondly, this record lacks the speech and presentation of the President of the Assembly. These are the famous speeches, the speeches that take place behind the back of the messengers. You should, why, if nothing else, at least in these records, keep what you've been saying to the MPs of the SRS. Your movements or gestures behind MPs' back will always be seen in photography or on television by the citizens of Serbia, but always in this report, especially when the SRS MP is behind this speaker, it should always be stated in the record what you, Mr Marsican, have commented on how you addressed the MPs, how you treated the MPs of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12964	Shall we hear about the objection to the record, what is missing, what is wrongly written and what should stand, so that the MPs can plead?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12965	It's obviously not worth talking to you about, I'm already done with my first remark. I can tell you again, if you want, but I'm telling you again, it's on page 6 in the first position, the last two sentences are not true, they're not the exact ones in this record.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12966	And it's supposed to stand?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12967	It should be noted that the draft president of the Assembly declared the failure of the electronic counting and voting system. That's how it's supposed to stand, because that's how it was. You can't enter into the record what wasn't, but I guess you heard that, I guess you understood. If you haven't, take a break, or take a few of your associates to read it, and let the congregation know anyway, until you know what we're talking about. What is important, and that is the essence of my objection, that in this record, your speeches or parts of your speeches must enter in the future, when you speak behind the back of the MPs. He who speaks and does so, like you and the secretary, behind his back, is known as they call him in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12968	I am voting on Mr Mircic's remarks on the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular Session. For 20, against 118, there were no abstentions, no vote 61, a total of 199. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this remark. He has the word Mr Vučurović (referring to the minutes).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on page 10, in the last position and on page 11, lies were written in the first position, insulting the dignity of the MPs. Based on these lies and inventions, the MPs, including myself, have been charged with moral damage, and it says that the Administrative and Legislative Committee has found that written, which have been designated as amendments of the Members of the People (this is the first amendment - the MPs do not write letters that are marked as amendments, but write amendments), secondly, insults the dignity of the National Assembly and the People's MPs, individual state officials, as well as other persons. And on page 11, point 1 states that these are the amendments of Bozidar Vučurovic to Articles 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17, which is an orthodox lie. It's a fiction that has no place in this record, so I'm asking for this to be erased. Because the amendment to Article 1 says, "The privatisation and distribution committee." The amendment to Article 5 says, "Article 5 is deleted." And mostly they say the members are deleted. If a member is deleted, and that offends someone's dignity, honor...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12970	Mr. Vučurovic, we are not discussing here the decision of the Legislative Committee, but whether the decision of the Legislative Committee was faithfully entered into the minutes. I ask you to take care of what you say, and we cannot decide here by commenting on the minutes and by eventually accepting to amend the decision of the Legislative Committee, which has been faithfully transposed into the minutes. Please be reasonable enough not to give such suggestions to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12971	You, Mr. President, are either not listening, or you are not here, as Mr. Janjic says. If you're saying a lie can be an integral part of a record, just because the Legislative and Administrative Committee has given it to you, it can only serve you honor. I point to a lie that has no place in this record. I ask that my name be deleted from this context. You can't write a lie, you can't write fiction, you can't write qualifications, you can't give people epithets and stuff. I'm saying that the article is being erased, and you say that it offends dignity, so don't check it and get it into the record. You say that Bozidar Vucurovic insulted the Assembly. Let any of the MPs confirm it. It's written in the record that should remain for generations, it's a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12972	I put to the vote Mr Vučurovic's remarks that what happened at the assembly session should not be written in the record, because according to his conviction... This is a principled remark. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 40, against 109, there was no 48 vote, a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this remark. National MP Natasa Jovanovic - remarks on the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12973	Given the overall atmosphere of this morning and your behaviour, Mr. Martian, according to the MPs of the SRS, and your personal animosity to me repeatedly demonstrated, I expect that before I comment on the report from the Second Regular Session, you say it is not reasonable. But I will soon convince you that my objection and how reasonable it is that it applies not only to my position here, but to the position of the entire SRS parliamentary group. So, the objection refers to the minutes on page 12, paragraph 4, I'll tell you the time, it was at 15.55, where it stands, after the break the quorum for work and decision-making was established, that the session was continued at 15.55, and that the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic, who, referring to Article 1. The Rules of Procedure explained the reasons why SRS MPs would not participate in the work of this session. Not only is this part of the record shrub and unspeakable, but it is an insult and dignity and a total commitment of SRS MPs, who have been fighting for the development of parliamentary democracy for more than 10 years in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, through their representatives, representatives of the people. You have not honored the SRS parliamentary group in the minutes of that session, not a single sentence from my entire presentation, and I have conveyed the position of the parliamentary group, to say why we left the session. You know, Mr. Martian, that session and everything that happened back then, when the already applicable Rules of Procedure, the most restrictive, adopted, will remain recorded and remembered, many will learn and learn how not to work in the National Assembly for 10, 20 and 50 years. It is truly inappropriate for you, in any single sentence in the record, not to point out why the MPs of the SRS are leaving the session. On that day the quorum was on edge, many MPs of the ruling coalition and ruling groups were not present at the session. Perhaps many could not follow through direct TV transmissions what was going on here, so if for no other reason, then because of the MPs, no matter what parliamentary groups they came from, the record should be finalised. By contrast, Mr. Martian, you on page 13, first of all, say (then I went out and didn't follow what was going on in the hall because I knew in advance that such a Rules of Procedure would be voted upon, which will first of all try to influence the MPs of the SRS to say to some different dictionaries, which you might like, and you see from this morning that this is not the case, and that none of the Rules of Procedure will prevent us from presenting our arguments) from agreeing with the MPs' groups of the SPS and the Serbian Unity Party to limit the debate on amendments, and you have previously rejected 250 neatly submitted amendments by the SRS as amendments that allegedly offend the dignity of the Assembly, individuals, which is not true. You didn't let us explain them. After that, the record noted that you had informed the MPs that you had some sort of arrangement with them. And those agreements that were then contrary to the then valid and now valid rules of procedure to make arrangements, to limit the debate in particular and to satisfy some form, for a while. You saw that we did not agree to such agreements, nor will we ever agree, but that is why we are asking for the SRS' position to be presented in the minutes, which is why we did not attend, and that is because we do not agree with such adopted rules of procedure, and because we were impossible to defend 250 properly submitted amendments to Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12974	I put to the vote the remarks of MP Natasa Jovanovic. For 36, against 108, there were no abstentions, they did not vote 52, a total of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept Ms Natasa Jovanovic's remarks. There is also a comment on the report by MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12975	Dear Mr. President, fellow MPs, on the side of paragraph 3 of the 13th minutes, there is one finding missing, so I would like to ask that it be entered, and that is the conclusion that after the presentation of counterpart Milos Lukic, the SPS parliamentary group left the session of the Serbian Parliament. Please enter that in the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12976	I put to the vote the remarks of MP Zarko Obradovic. For 118, against 33, abstentions 6, there was no vote of 40, a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the objection to Mr. Zarko Obradovic's record. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Vojislav Seselj appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12977	On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I doubt the results of the vote, which is why I demand that the vote be repeated.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12978	We will repeat the vote on the remarks by Zarko Obradovic and the request to amend the minutes from the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly. First, I ask that we determine the quorum, so that there is no doubt. We have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to make a statement about the objection I have made. For 110, against 37, abstentioned 12, no vote was made by 8, a total of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the remarks of MP Zarko Obradovic. He has the word Mr. Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12979	I have remarked on the report from the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the Serbian Assembly in 2001, held on 2, 3, 4 and 8 October 2001. In particular, on page 22 of the minutes, it reads: "After completing the amendment decision (i.e., the debate on amendments was concluded), and before the vote on the draft decision, MP Dejan Mihajlov, as a member of the Legislative Committee and a representative of the motion, informed the National Assembly that the Legislative Committee had submitted amendments to Articles 1, 4 and 5. The motion for a decision, and then met the National Assembly with the content of the amendments." There's an obvious offense here and a violation of the former Rules of Procedure and even some rules of conduct. It clearly states that the debate on amendments has been concluded, and then one member of the Legislative Committee stands up and proposes new amendments 1, 4 and 5, which have no basis for proposing. One more thing: these amendments are proposed in order to eliminate perceived disagreements. It means that the Administrative Board and the Legislative Committee did not perform their duties, but they proposed that some amendments be adopted which, as you say, are incompatible with the Rules of Procedure. Such a proposal, i.e. the text in the minutes in the future, should not stand. I also have a concrete proposal that the last member of this report says that the National Assembly adopted by majority vote a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so this point is deleted, and they add: "Dejan Mihajlov and Dragan Jocic, and will apply only to the parliamentary group of the marriage couple Kostunica-Radovic". Why am I asking this to be entered in the record? Because it's like a private Rules of Procedure. It only has an obligation for this task force, because it is an illegal way of accepting the amendments of Dejan Mihajlov and Dragan Jocic, and then also an amendment to the article. 1, 4 and 5, after discussing Mr. Dejan Michael's amendments. I ask that the text set out in the minutes be entered and that the minutes apply only to a specific parliamentary group, not to the National Assembly. The National Assembly will work in another Rules of Procedure, since it is clear that it is against the rules that have been adopted so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12980	This is another one of the remarks that can't be put to the vote. Anyone else answer for a word? We'll all answer the word. And you'll all answer the word. Well, then, as President of the Assembly, before I give you my word, please explain how the National Assembly works, which I am obliged to explain to all the MPs, not to you. The record is an act entered, according to the Rules of Procedure, I can read what and how, what was happening at the session, important events, important decisions and what was in the assembly. The comments on the record can only apply to any man who reasons and respects the National Assembly to the possible fact that the record contains something different or other than what was happening at the assembly session or what was decided, or, possibly, some of it is missed to enter into the minutes. Of course, the proposal should also follow how a certain text should be changed if it does not faithfully reflect what was in the congregation. We've been listening, mostly, to disagreements with what's been going on. It can't be the subject of anyone who has a healthy mind in his head, it can't be the subject of discussion when the record is discussed. So we can get along or disagree with something that was decided at the assembly session, or what was going on, but what was it, it has to be written in the record. I'm asking you to keep that in mind, because most of the time so far, almost an hour and a half, we've spent on debates about what someone doesn't like about what's written in the record faithfully in what really happened at the session. He has the word Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12981	You've violated Article 28. Rules of Procedure. This article does not empower you to categorize the messengers of the people to those who are healthy in mind or to think of common senses and those who are not healthy in mind. In accordance with Article 28. Rules of Procedure, you are obliged, above all, to take care of the strict application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If you don't find the most striking problem with this record the fact that what was most important in the entire last session wasn't found in that record, then you're the main problem here. You are not concerned that the minutes did not establish that an amendment which could not be adopted was adopted, as it referred to a member of the Rules of Procedure who was not the subject of the debate, subject to the agenda concerning amendments and additions. What could have been harder than that? What's more striking than the fact that the record isn't correct, that it's not valid, that it doesn't express the essence of the session? The record cannot establish every spoken word, there is a stenogram for it, but in the record everything that was most important in the session must be determined. You run away from it, because you think that with a comfortable congregation majority you can break both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the law, and everything that comes to your mind. We're letting you know you can't do that. As long as you don't intervene yourself, when it comes to a strict violation of the Rules of Procedure, so when you're wrong, you're looking for a way to make things right, you're going to have to deal with our constant apparition and where we have strong arguments, and where we have weaker arguments, but we still have them. You're not doing your job properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12982	I have not warned you, although you have not objected to any violation of the Rules of Procedure. You've entered some controversy, completely indecipherable. I really don't know what you really want. Vojislav Seselj is coming back for the pay phone. I didn't give you my word. I didn't ask you anything, and I didn't give you the right to go out for a pay phone. Please leave the pay phone. Please leave the pay phone because I didn't give you my word. I ask you to respect, first of all, the voters represented by the MPs. (Vojislav Seselj, stands outside the pay phone: I demand that the Assembly declare that you have violated Article 28. Rules of Procedure, and you have to put it to a vote. I give you a warning. You spoke, even though I didn't give you my word. Please, sit down. (Vojislav Seselj throws water on the president of the National Assembly and says, "Here, let me wash you a little." Then he leaves the O.R. ( ) You have already done so in the Federal Assembly. What do we do? I'll put... I put to the vote - what is it, I don't know how to formulate that it isn't formulated, but well - objecting to the violation of Rules of Procedure, the provisions of Article 28. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do you want to replace me? Wait until the vote is over, and I'll wipe myself out. For 15, against 122 abstentions, there was no vote 46, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted Mr Vojislav Seselj's remarks. Anyone else have any objections to the record? You want to do this in a row, go ahead. You will allow me to make a little order, so that this pigsty can be settled, and you can speak, so I will ask Mrs. Micic to continue to conduct the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12983	Mr. President, what you're doing in this house really doesn't make sense. I don't know if there are any examples in parliamentary practice that you use these words to address the MPs and raise this tension in the National Assembly. If someone justified, like Mr. Seselj, points to the injury of that and that member of the Rules of Procedure, insists on voting on it, and in such a way you land it all, make warnings, it really doesn't make sense. I don't know what your wish is. What's your wish and this secretary next to you who jumps like a rooster, a yogkin, something like that. What does he want? He wants to deal physically with MPs here. I have a concrete objection to page four of the record, which doesn't match the truth, if you'll let me say so. [[Sagar.]] So here it was found that after the break the quorum was established, etc. And that, following the discussion of Zahari Trnavcevic, that is, during his presentation, the president gave a warning to MP Miroljub Veljkovic. It just doesn't suit the truth. You gave me your first warning in the last session when I quoted Vladan Batic and I congratulated you on the President's election, in fact for the warden of the prison (which shows me that you have already begun to perform that function) and when I mentioned and quoted Vojislav Kostunica, as he said in 1994 about the current rules of procedure. That's when I got my first warning. During the discussion of Mr. Zahari Trnavčević, you did not realize here that he physically attacked me and Mr. Stamenkovic, and you gave me the reminder at one very other point. So if you consider this an obstruction and you're simply not telling the truth in this record, you're falsifying this for history. I think this is your behavior... I don't know what this is gonna lead to.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12984	I'm putting on a vote for an objection made by the MP. You'll get a straight line, but first we have to vote. For 17, against 115, there were no abstentions, no 50 votes, a total of 182 MPs. The right to the replica was requested by the MP of the people, Zaharija Trnavcevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12985	Dear People's MPs, I thought never again, and that's what I said, just once I talked about hurting the Rules of Procedure, I don't go out for a pay phone to talk about these things. But here today, lies and lies have been repeated again. I told this speaker last time that actually the Rules of Procedure are changing because of the behaviour of the Serbian Radical Party, its MPs who abuse the provisions of the previous Rules of Procedure, and that this must be put in the way. When I finished my presentation, I took the same direction that I now came for a pay phone and two MPs, Dragoljub Stamenković and Miroljub Veljkovic, sent me to my mother's house. That's the whole truth. Allow me, I have stood in wonder, what I hear from my fellow MPs, who are just as well as I have been chosen by citizens and peoples. That's what MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic stood up and screamed, "Here, he hit me! "It's a pure disgusting lie. I repeat, a pure, disgusting lie. I'd never talk about it if it didn't happen again and spread like I ran into Dragoljub. I've never had a fight with anyone in my life, and I don't think I fight or deal physically. It was a pure lie, a lie, and shame upon them. I can be a father once and for all, but I don't expect anything else, I expect them to act that way, because their inspirer, the one who left this room, gives them orders.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12986	Right on line, MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12987	Ladies and gentlemen, I think you were all witnesses when Mr. Trnavcevic, in a visibly alcoholic state, came at me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12988	Mr. Stamenkovic, I give you my first warning because you have offended the MP Zahari Trnavčević. [[Sagar, applause.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12989	He was so drunk that he really didn't take care of what he was doing, and I took him...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12990	_Other Organiser In 103, I give you a second warning. [[growls]] Anybody else answer for a word? [[Sagar, applause.]] Is there any objection to the record? Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12991	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there has been a material violation of an act, despite our internal act, but an act that remains a document. On page 12, in rows 4, 5 and 6, there was a material falsehood, as well as in the fourth attitude in which it was said that MP Aleksandar Vukic, who came forward for his injury to article 99, did not speak of it. I have to say that I talked about it, which is a very clear testimony of the stenographic notes, but the problem is that some others didn't want to talk about it, which they didn't think to listen to, so they gave me a warning. I haven't said a word of insult. I didn't even want to wash the president of the National Assembly, who was impossible to wash, because he himself said where he lives and how he lives, and I was warned. But it's not true that my notice was given to me because of Article 99's injury. Rules of Procedure, I've already been warned because that's what the president of the National Assembly wanted. In the stenographic notes, there is not one single offensive word I have spoken, nor that I have hurt the Rules of Procedure in any other way. Also, it's not true that I haven't spoken, I've already called in Article 99 twice and said why I'm talking about Article 99. I ask that an inserted sentence be deleted between the two commas -- "but he didn't talk about it," because you all remember well that I was talking about what the president of the assembly said when he said that some MPs had a head, or see that they only have a head when they get a headache, and that's probably an essential violation of Article 99. That's why I'm asking this kind of thing to be in the ID log. I have a serious problem here. Now let me explain to you what the problem is. The problem is, not only mine, but I think all the MPs in the National Assembly who think you're making a warning... It was easy to tell Steve Dragisic's remarks, it's easy for the president...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12992	Please return to the topic. You went out to talk about breaking the record, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12993	I'm back on the subject, and don't correct me, but listen to me. He was told, although he has five children, so two salaries must be paid. You may give notices, take away wages from the MPs, but you may know that for psychiatry, it is those who applaud it and who look forward to paying one, two, or three warnings, to your impertinence, and to remove MPs from this payphone in every way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12994	Time and theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12995	There's no time. At 3.01, catch you shouting at the time, and when Zechariah Trnavcevic comes out to say what he thinks about this payphone, then there's no time and he can go to 3.50.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12996	Mr. Trnavcevic spoke less than three minutes. You can check the records later. I would like to put to the vote the remarks made by MP Alexander Vukic on the record. For 27, against 112, there were no abstentions, no 38, a total of 177. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that no breach of the record has been committed. According to the Rules of Procedure, as deputy member of the DOS parliamentary group, the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12997	According to the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of Article 102, I would like the National Assembly to declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the Chairman, Mr Marsican, which did not propose a disfellowshipping measure, due to a breach of order at the session, Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12998	I am putting on the vote by the deputy Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group that the chairman has committed an infringement under Article 102. For 114, against 12, there were no abstentions, no 56, a total of 182. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that the chairman has violated Article 102, and I therefore put it to the vote, as chairman, I propose that the National Assembly make a decision to give the measure of distance to MP Vojislav Seselj, for violating Article 101. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 119, against 19, there were no abstentions, no 44, a total of 182. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that MP Vojislav Seselj step away from the session. As deputy MP, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u12999	I know there are some people here who don't say much at home, so they use this pay phone, but when the chairman finished her presentation, during her presentation, I was looking for a word about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. However, the lady or the lady has been in such a hurry to vote this decision that she has violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, you were obliged, under Article 97, to give me your word immediately when you completed your presentation. Your presentation consisted of you suggesting that the National Assembly make a decision to exclude Vojislav Seselj from the National Assembly session. I then objected to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you had to give me your word about the injury, and then put it to the vote on the decision you proposed. I didn't ask for a word during the vote. You didn't mention the vote when I asked for a word in connection with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What was the previous violation of the Rules of Procedure that I wanted to object to? It was moral, my dear lady, to wait for Dragan the Martian to decide. The fact that you accidentally sat down on that chair when he went out to go for himself or to clean up that pighouse, as he said, doesn't give you the right to decide on a further session. If someone is offended in this room, comes out for a pay phone, and says he's offended and asks to vote on it, as one MP just said about it, I don't know where. How did you feel so called upon to make a decision that your predecessor was not prepared to make within five seconds without giving the right even to harm the Rules of Procedure? If that decision had been the wish of the president of the National Assembly, he would have proposed it as soon as it was current, and you now, 20 minutes later, remembered that you should make such a decision. We don't need minor political figures here to solve further fate and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the state, our Republic of Serbia, and in these minors, except for the two relevant parties, all of you are classified. (President: Time. ) You can run internal affairs and foreign policy, you can do whatever you want in this country, you're minors, and those I put into big ones are more and more minor because they listen to minors.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13000	I'm warning you on time and on the subject. You've reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I don't think it has anything to do with the member you've pointed out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13001	It has big connections, but I don't belong to the Democratic Party or the Democratic Party of Serbia, so listen to what I'm going to do, I belong to a very large political party that your behaviour, Mrs. Micic, has no influence, as soon in Serbia your behaviour will no longer matter. Make sure Serbia doesn't remember you by any means, Mrs. Micic. You'll have to do what you did before this election.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13002	Mr. Nikolic, time and theme, time and theme, time and theme. You've made a statement to Article 97(3), which I don't think I've broken. The same member says, "The president, or representative of the parliamentary group, who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, gives the president of the National Assembly the word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed." Since I was obliged after advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, when it was already voted that there had been a breach of the Rules of Procedure because there was no measure of distance, I continued in that direction and put it to the vote to make such a decision, and I am also a speaker, Mr. Nikolic, you understand. Just after I finished, I gave you my word, and I think I did exactly what you said. Is anyone else answering for word after injury? Would you like to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure, would you? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: When someone else comes here where you are sitting now.) ) Dvoro, now MP Stevan Kesejić, remarks on the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13003	Now it looks more like the MPs and the water are gone. I comment on the breach of the minutes, i.e. on the incorrect writing of part of the minutes on page 12, which refers to the measures given to the MP Stevan Kesejić, so to me, and where it is said that MP Stevan Kesejić, who was agreed by the president of the provision of Articles 101 and 102 after two remarks were made, gave the measure of confiscation of words. So this finding could also be accepted to speak of Article 134, which I advertised when I was going out for a pay phone. So it is that I have advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure, yet still valid, of Article 134, where the National Assembly, that is, the National Assembly President, did not put the injury I have advertised to the vote. And it is that other MPs, specifically from the DOS, were on the contrary to Article 134, to the amendments of other MPs, i.e. my amendment, which is why I asked for the infringement of the Rules of Procedure to be established, because later in the debate, I did not have the same right to do so, while at the same time the MPs of the DOS majority were allowed to discuss the amendments I submitted. Pointing to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 134, where it states that only the MP who submits the amendment has the right to discuss the amendment, as well as the parliamentary groups and the Legislative Committee, but not at all the other MPs individually, I am therefore given one, another reminder and confiscation of words. However, this does not appear in the record, the genealogy and the process that took place here in the National Assembly does not stand, and I therefore ask that the minutes change the entire course and order so that it could not be interpreted as being an MP, which is mentioned here, Stevan Kesejic, who has committed an injury from Article 101, and the violation of Article 101 of the Law of the People's Parliament, which was approached by the speaker without the permission of the National Assembly president. (President: Time. There's no time here, no. So, in order not to get the impression in public that I used the pay phone here as a National MP before I asked and got the word, which is not true, or that I would not have gotten the impression that, despite the warning of the National Assembly president, I was talking about issues that were not on the agenda, and on the agenda were just amendments that I was talking about, and that I am still not taking away the valuable time of the DOS majority who is eager to pass these laws that are on the agenda these days, and above all, the labour law, I will remain on this request to amend the minutes precisely with these proposals that I have made.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13004	Thank you, I would like to put to the vote the remarks made by MP Stevan Kesejic. For 30, against 106, there were no abstentions, no 52, a total of 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the remarks made by MP Stevan Kesejic. Objection to the record, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13005	Ladies and gentlemen, one concrete remark, on pages 10 and 11 has been found that I have been rejected by amendments for insulting the dignity of the Assembly and what is already listed here, state officials, etc., Amendment 1, 2, 3. Four and counting to 13, and on page 15, my amendment to Article 3 is determined. The National Assembly did not accept and it is said that even from 136 present, one voted for, 129 against, one abstained, and five did not vote. So there's something really wrong here. The text on page 11 and the text on page 15 is quite different and they are quite the opposite. It is here that the amendments have been rejected, and these amendments have been voted on. I ask that it be checked, what was it and that the real truth of this was written. Is it true on page 11, or is it true on page 15, and it's obvious and I think it's clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13006	All right, you can check your stenographic notes, do you want to vote on your remarks? I would like to put my remarks to the vote on the minutes tabled by MP Blazic. For 26, against 109, four were abstentions, not 51, out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision not to accept an objection to the minutes filed by MP Blazic. Anybody else answer for a word? Comments to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Janjic, good on the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13007	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've got something like this in the material (national MP Slobodan Janjic at the pay phone shows paper with a cowardly cross) and I'd like to ask the cameras to record it. In addition to putting your hands in the pockets of the citizens, you drag these rules of procedure into your pocket. Just in case, I keep the money in my pants, I've been stripping the lining, so whoever wants to stall, but it has to go deeper. In this minutes of the previous session, it does not say at all that Mr. Chairman has said to some MPs that they are a disgrace to the National Assembly. They are certain messengers of the shame of the National Assembly, for some MPs solve crosswords, chew gum, read newspapers, sit in buffets, and do not participate in work. That's right. But there's another kind of confusion, and there's a drunken shame of the National Assembly, and you know who's here in the Assembly. Secondly, the president reminded that the Administrative and Legislative Committee, considering amendments submitted to the proposal for a decision, had found that the writings, which have been marked as amendments to individual MPs, were rudely insulting the dignity of the National Assembly and individual MPs. If that's not true, the evidence stands here: "The emissary majority is obliged to secure the quorum, and because of the lack of quorum, all costs will be deducted from the pay of the parliamentary majority." What is offensive about this amendment, that you reject it and that it does not enter the procedure? It may be an offensive explanation: "From the constitution of the National Assembly, the parliamentary majority is obstructing the work of the National Assembly in that all sessions begin with an hour late, because DOS MPs are hung over in the morning, tired of night work, and in the afternoon MPs, are either at the bar of the assembly buffet or are on their afternoon vacation." What's offensive and what's not true? You've rejected such amendments, deceived the public that they're offensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13008	And they are offensive, Mr. Janjic, I give you a notice on the basis of Article 103, and I warn you that your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13009	I wasn't hoping you'd reach into my pocket first. Furthermore, in the congregation material, you made one forgeries. I wrote, and I asked with my amendment, "The Prime Minister doesn't get a word when he asks for it and has no right to speak unless he attends the whole day's work of the Assembly, or all the parliamentary presentations." I proposed that amendment to get government representatives to listen to MPs and sit here in the bench. What's offensive about that amendment? Nothing, except you don't think they should be sitting here. Here's the next amendment: "The harm of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is only taken care of by the President of the National Assembly, with it being explicitly forbidden to consult with the Secretary." So what's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13010	Mr. Janjic, you have come forward to make remarks on the record and are now discussing your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13011	I'm discussing the amendments and the minutes, which you for no reason threw out, and there's no reason why.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13012	And please show me, because I'm the only one who didn't see what you showed at the beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13013	I'll show you, only when I'm done speaking, in the hallway.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13014	Mr. Janjic, since I heard you showed a cowardly cross, with the DSS in front of it, I give you a second warning. A notice based on Article 103 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13015	Oh, you've got quite a grip on my pocket.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13016	I'm also warning you that your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13017	Time is not limited.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13018	Time is limited, there is no clear provision, but an analogy is applied as a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Because, you know, if there was unlimited time, then you could go out and talk for 10 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13019	Well, I just want to talk for 10 hours, and I'm not insulting anyone. I know why you're doing this, because you won't let us talk at the assembly pay phone, we're communicating with the people at the myths, so we'll talk to them at 3:00 p.m. on Friday.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13020	Since this has nothing to do with the subject you've come up with, regardless of the time you've broken, I'm taking your word for it, Mr. Janjic, and I'm asking you to step away from the pay phone. First, let us make clear by voting on objections issued by MP Slobodan Janjic, although it was more of an amendment debate. For 7, v 107, a abstentioned one, did not vote 71, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision not to adopt the objection of MP Slobodan Janjic. He has the word National MP Goran Cvetanović (referring to the minutes).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's really amazing what you can read in the record. On a long day of work, meaning 3 October 2001, it was not noted that according to the National Assembly Service, the sessions did not attend, and they did not inform the president of the prevention, MPs, including Dr Goran Cvetanovic. I responsibly claim, morally and in every respect, that I have been to all the sessions of the National Assembly and actively participated in the work, except when you unjustly kicked me out of the National Assembly, so it's simply amazing. You may have, as always, wanted to prove that I wasn't in the O.R. that I wasn't in the meeting that day. I just don't get it, your Secretary of Parliament, from the DSS, what do you keep it for? Probably because of beauty, because apparently, the job that needs to be done, he doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13022	I put on the vote the remarks made by MP Goran Cvetanovic. Please state by voting. I'm acting as if he's pointed out his objection to the record, since he's got a word on that basis, you know, there's no other way. That's how I have to work. For 31, against 85, abstentions 6, there were no 68 votes, a total of 190 MPs. So no objection was adopted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The word comes from the Parliament of the People of Gordana Pop-Lazic (referring to the minutes).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the fourth day of the Assembly's work, during which we discussed the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the National Assembly informs the Assembly that the amendments were withdrawn by MPs Tomislav Panajotovic and Dragan Pavlovic to Article 13. (two amendments). A on page 14. The National Assembly, when there was a vote on these amendments, after the MPs of the SRS left the Assembly session because you did not allow us to explain our amendments, the National Assembly is by majority vote (paragraph 2 on page 14.) She accepted the amendments of the MPs of the people Tomislav Panajotovic and Dragan Pavlovic in the article. 13, with the intervention done at the session of the Legislative Committee. At the assembly session, which voted on the amendments, legal violence and a series of illegal proceedings were committed, in which the president was obliged to direct the Assembly in this direction to work in a legal manner. However, he did not, as before many times, do his duty properly, and in the absence of Serbian radicals, he had no one to warn you that you were working in an illegal manner. As a result, Tomislav Nikolic submitted a motion for a decision to put aside the decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in which you have an explanation that you have carried out all illegal actions during the vote under the proposal for this decision, and now I ask the National Assembly and you chair to enter the minutes and that it is not clear to which amendment Tomislav Panajotovic and Dragan Pavlovic were concerned, or whether there was a third amendment, because we did not have that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13024	I ask the National Assembly to declare the objection of MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. I'm putting on a vote of objection. For 29, against 99, a abstentioned one, did not vote 61, a total of 190 MPs present. I find that no opposition from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has been adopted. National MP Petar Jojic, remarks on the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13025	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not superfluous that today we refer to the credibility of the minutes of the previous session, that those who take care of reality, the truthfulness of the minutes, its authenticity, in the future take a little more account because, in any case, the MPs of the SRS would not otherwise indicate or make numerous remarks to this minutes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on page 10 of the last paragraph, the President of the Assembly commented, according to this record, that the amendments had been rejected, he called them "written". On page 11, he also calls them, according to this record, that they are "written". It can never be "written" when the MP submits a proposal for an amendment. He has to qualify and mark himself only as a proposal for an amendment. And this amendment may be accepted or rejected by the Assembly. So we can't act like people with no responsibility. There are a lot of graduate lawyers in this assembly, and the secretary of the Assembly and the service that takes care of this in any case has the right, but also the obligation to do so on every amendment and on the content of the minutes, as well as the service that keeps and prepares the records, must be precisely, precisely. Not a single letter can be falsified. On the other hand, amendments by MPs have also been rejected. I've invested 14 amendments. However, there is not a single word in this minutes that is why the Legislative has subsequently submitted this proposal to the Administrative Committee. For each amendment, for which reasons it has been proposed not to be accepted, the explanation and the minutes shall state. So the content must be highlighted. If that's not there, this is one absolutely nothing and it's not allowed in the record to just indicate the numbers without saying the reasons. If that were the case, the judge could give a death sentence without giving any valid explanation. The statement with an explanation should be harmonised and it must be contained. In addition, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you remember well that there has been an objection to these amendments, but that the amendments which are not included or are accepted to have been paraphrased and quoted from word to word. This record does not say which MP was speaking at that session. I'm talking about the record from that session. There is not a single word that the MP referred to these amendments and quoted them from letter to letter. That's why I think in the future, and I don't accept that this is a credible record. I will never agree to that because I am well aware of how the sessions were conducted and, on the other hand, what who said and must be given a valid explanation in order to make it clear to the MPs. And the service that works and prepares sessions and keeps records, in the future and how it should be taken into account more than it has ever been before. There's been an argument, ladies and gentlemen, don't be weird about it. There's been a need, and it's a good thing we've opened up an argument about credibility, so we don't have to push counterfeits anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13026	I am putting a motion to vote (Petar Jojic: I did not ask for a vote. You didn't ask, but according to the Rules of Procedure, it does. I'm putting the motion to a vote. For 11, against 108, the abstentions were missing, did not vote 71, out of a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this remark. National MP Dragan Tomic - remarks on the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13027	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, without the intention of participating in this part of the debate, but I simply had to go out for a pay phone and we are all finding one fact together: almost all the opposition MPs in the debate, which was led several days around the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, have found the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has definitely been violated, and they have found that by listing the members of the Constitution. There is no finding in the record that has been made by opposition MPs. No member of the Constitution we quoted here. Some of the members of the Constitution are also listed in parliamentary IDs, and it seems to me that there are the greatest violations by adopting this kind of work, with this new Rules of Procedure. I think it's one of the essential remarks that doesn't exist in this record. There's no finding of the occasion, and I think we should get back to that - whether it's supposed to be in this record or not. In this debate, which was conducted for several days, almost all discussions mentioned the fact that the right would be denied, that the electoral will of a particular part of the electoral body was denied to express its opinion for this speaker, to state the position of the electoral body, to present a particular proposal. We've established that the MP, any one of them, can write a bill, but he can't self-initiately write an amendment. That's all a member group can do. So we have established a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. There are no findings in this record. I'd like to make a statement to the team.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13028	I ask the People's Messengers to make a statement about this objection. For 52, against 106, with five abstentions, did not vote 28, a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this objection. Does anyone else have an objection to the record? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13029	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, by analysing the record, I have certain objections regarding the following. The president always noted in his presentation that government members were invited, but no record of which of the members of the government was present, at which time, which is very important to stand in the record because members of the government both enter and exit for a certain period. We'd better have a record of that. The reasons are very important to know when a member of the government was present at the session. That's my remark. Then, it wasn't recorded when the quorum was missing. I mean the captain. There are only two or three times that there was a quorum, or that it was a function of the Assembly. The presence Mr Cvetanovic spoke of should be re-voted. Goran Cvetanovic attended the assembly session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13030	I'm putting this remark to the vote on the record. For 49, against 106, the abstentioned were not voted 38, a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this objection.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13031	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a wonder that in the very arrival of the pay phone, as an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, I have not received a warning, although I have not spoken a single word. This is exactly the atmosphere and such a session of the National Assembly by the president of the National Assembly. I think that this record of the previous session lacks two pages that would cover everything that was done in its work and behaviour by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Marscanin. I do not understand that everything he has done is not shown in the record, that he faithfully reflects the right situation, making the course of the session of the National Assembly of Serbia under the leadership of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If there was a television broadcast, Serbian citizens could see the session being conducted, in which they were insulted by Serbian Radical Party MPs, as they were thrown at them, in what way they were belittled. Why is it hiding in the record? I think the record's a big deal. We've been damaged that, as ambassadors, we have everything on record. I don't understand the fear of that record. What's the fear? I think the President of the National Assembly, Mr. Martian, has, in his conduct, challenged and insulted the MPs and is the chief culprit for all the incident situations. Several times during the session, he abused the function of National Assembly president. In fact, he's the chief circus manager at the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13032	Did you finish, you didn't say anything about the record, so I'm asking you. There's nothing to put to the vote, despite my best wishes. Is anyone else answering as per the record? I know a gentleman. I know he's having a hard time getting out on a warrant, but what do we do?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13033	It's not hard, Mr. President, because I'm sure the paperwork I'm getting from you isn't complete. What I am about to say concerns the minutes, page 11th paragraph 1, which discusses the rejection of amendments by the Serbian Radical Party MPs on a proposal from the Legislative Committee and the Administrative Committee, as well as the date of the meeting of the president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, Dr Vojislav Seselj. The minutes do not reveal that, not citing a member of the Rules of Procedure, in his statement on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group wanted to point out that neither the Legislative Committee under Article 46. Rules of Procedure, not an Administrative Committee under Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, they have no right to make such recommendations. There's a question of why. If you already have the stenograms, as you say, why don't you show the real truth in the records, because of those who will read these records tomorrow and look for stenograms based on them about what this government was doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13034	There was no concrete proposal. I have nothing to put to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13035	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, you see how you are today in violation here in the Assembly of the National Assembly session, because you have not individually observed and voted on the shortcomings of the minutes, but on the remarks of MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Secondly, there have been so many times for this same speaker, so in the past week, there have been so many ugly words and so many abuses at the expense of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, spoken by other MPs, and you have not seen it in any record at all. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, the amendments I have made, from one to the 15th regular, were all rejected, but in fact, the Legislative and Administrative Committee for all these amendments should give a certain explanation. This explanation given by these two committees for the entire SRS parliamentary group, for all their amendments, is actually unacceptable, because our amendments did not offend the dignity of the National Assembly at all. Therefore, it was also necessary to explain my amendments, as well as amendments to the SRS parliamentary group, which is why they are being rejected. And not like you did, the maltenes of the entire parliamentary group are not...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13036	Ambassador Zivanovic, please highlight your remarks on the record, not on the work of the Legislative Committee 15 days ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13037	Chairman, I think I am talking about the minutes, very decadently: "The president reminded that the Administrative and Legislative Committee, by considering the amendments submitted to the proposal for a decision, has found that the written (which is unacceptable, as you have written) which have been marked as amendments to individual MPs are rudely insulting to the dignity of the National Assembly, the People's MPs and the individual state officials, as well as to other persons, and that, in accordance with Article 99(1), paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure have concluded that they are proposing to the National Assembly that these letters be rejected without consideration. "Please, in no amendment of my own I have offended neither the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia nor the dignity of any official. That's why I'm asking the Assembly to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13038	This cannot be declared by the National Assembly. I have nothing to put to the vote because you are in charge of principle debates, you are objecting to the decisions of the Legislative Committee, which were declared by the National Assembly 15 days ago. You have not highlighted any single objection or suggestion in the text of the record to which you object should stand. In doing so, you know very well about it, and you're just trying to crush the citizens you represent here. Do any other MPs have any objections to the record? Here you go. Let's hear your homework.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am putting three remarks on the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular Session, and I demand that every objection be voted on in particular, not in the package as it was done by the chairman in the case of MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The first remark is principled and refers to all the minutes that we receive from this DOS assembly, by the majority, which says which MPs report for the word. However, what I am commenting on, and I ask that the National Assembly be made known about it, is that nowhere out of this, except for the tax ruling that the MPs were coming out for this speaker during the principle debate, I do not see who supported a specific legislative project that was under discussion, and who was against that principle debate. Only the numbers, the names of the MPs who participated in the principle debate on certain draft laws, amendments, and additions to the laws discussed in this National Assembly are listed here. The second observation refers to the fact that the National Assembly has refused to discuss the vast majority of amendments made by the SRS MPs, using the legal option, to consider the National Assembly. They're qualified as written, not as amendments. As such, however, they are neatly seduced into the office of the National Assembly. They were both discussed by both the board of directors. So, I can't characterize myself and give them the quality of the writing, but just the amendments. The committees responsible for discussing this cannot make a decision and propose to the National Assembly that no debate be held at all, but that these amendments be rejected. The only thing committees can, which can, is to say that amendments are legally possible or not, to propose that, accordingly, the National Assembly on Amendments be made known, not committees. So it's not listed either, as well as why, either. The third remark, which is constantly being passed, and for the third time I point out that it does not appear that the MP Dr Cvetanovic did not attend the session, because there is evidence, data, through the congregation service can be determined, that he was the same and I ask that it be determined that he was and that a revision and addition of such a poorly formed record is carried out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13040	I'm putting three remarks on the vote. First one. For 23, against 124 abstentions, there were no, no 50 votes, a total of 197. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the first remark. Then the other one. Please plead. For 22, against 117 abstentions, there was no vote of 59, since 198. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this remark. Then the third. Please plead. For 23, against 114 abstentions, they did not vote 63, a total of 200. I find that this remark has not been adopted either. Is anyone else answering for a word on the record? Nobody. ) I am putting to the vote the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, held on 2, 3, 4 and 8 October 2001, with previous remarks by MP Zarko Obradovic. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 132 against 16, 25 abstentions, 27 were not voted, a total of 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the first session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, held 2, 3, 4 and 8 October 2001, with previous opposition from MP Zarko Obradovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have received the resignations of Aleksandar Pradic as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Obren Joksimovic as Minister of Health and Environmental Protection in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with Article 203(3) of the Treaty, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been notified of the resignations by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Do members of the government, Aleksandar Pradic and Obren Joksimovic, want to explain their resignations? (Alexander Justice: No. ) I remind you that Article 203 is Article 4. The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly, stipulates that the National Assembly, in its first next session, finds, without a search, that a member of the Government has resigned and that it is not decided. In accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly finds that Aleksandar Pradic resigned as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and that Obren Joksimovic resigned as Minister of Health and Environmental Protection in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda of the session. First of all, suggestions for an emergency examination. The Committee on Justice and Administration has proposed that the matter be placed on the agenda as an emergency procedure. Discharge and termination of office to the judge and the President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, judges and public prosecutors. I put on the vote the proposal of the Justice and Administration Committee to put the matter on the agenda as an emergency procedure. Discharge and termination of office to the judge and the President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, judges and public prosecutors. For 131, there were no 27 abstentions, no 42, a total of 200. I find this proposal accepted. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to put the draft law amending the Law on the establishment of a public undertaking for research, production, processing and transport of oil and natural gas, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 October 2001, following an urgent procedure. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to put the draft law amending the Law on the establishment of a public undertaking for research, production, processing and transport of oil and natural gas on the urgent procedure. For 76, against 77, abstentions 6, they did not vote 42, a total of 201. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Tomislav Nikolic proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision to put aside the decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, adopted by the National Assembly on 8 October 2001. (Tomislav Nikolic: I want to explain. You do not have the right under the Rules of Procedure, because there is no discussion and no explanation. The explanation was given to the MPs in the material. I would like to put the motion by MP Tomislav Nikolic to put on the agenda an emergency procedure for a decision to put off the decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 59, against 129 abstentions, there was no, there was no 17 vote, a total of 205. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13041	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that today's agenda be complemented by a proposal for a decision that would be put on the agenda by emergency procedure. The president of the National Assembly has informed you that I have no right to go out for this pay phone and explain my proposal. Article 87. The Rules of Procedure read as follows: "The proposed amendments and the amendments to the agenda are being searched in which only the proposer of the change of the agenda, or the authorised representative of the proposing group, can participate." I suggested changing the agenda. I'm not a representative of a group of promoters, but I represent myself, and I have the right to speak for three minutes, to try to convince you that this motion for a decision should be put on an emergency procedure. It really doesn't make any sense anymore to lie to the National Assembly and the public of Serbia, Mr. President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13042	As far as lying is concerned, Mr Nikolic, let the public judge from the following: we did not decide on changes and additions to the agenda, you did not propose, we decided on an emergency procedure, in which you do not have the right to explain the proposal. Article 87 does not apply to this. If you want the fact of who is here to be agreed by the National Assembly, or whether there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please make a statement. Don't ask, then we'll keep working. Proposals for withdrawing certain points from the draft agenda of the sitting. National MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, suggested withdrawing the 12th item from the proposed agenda -- the draft labour law, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 20 September 2001. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13043	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, studying the proposed labour law, looking at the proposed members of the Labour Act, comparing the existing, valid members and assessing the views of individual unions representing the interests of workers, decided to propose as a parliamentary group that the labour law be withdrawn from this session and recommended to the government of the Republic of Serbia that in the coming period, negotiating with relevant trade unions in the Republic of Serbia, prepare a new version of the labour law. It is clear that this labour law is essentially affecting the acquired rights of employees and, above all, those who are not employed, who are yet to be employed. It goes so far as to put the collective contract completely out of force, because employers are allowed to regulate all relationships through the labour regulations and labour contracts. We estimate that the proposed law on work in the continuity of tax regulations that you have brought here in the spring session, in the continuity of the Privatisation Act, is essentially a law that puts the key in the lock and opens the door to colonial relations and the position of the Republic of Serbia and employees in the Republic of Serbia. Several important facts affecting acquired rights concern not only the collective agreement, they also refer to the constitutional obligation, the right to be employed by everyone by not obliging the employer to advertise jobs, the need to fill up, up to one truly tragic move, when it comes to birthrights in the Republic of Serbia, which is essentially to provide families with only three months of full pay. Chairman, do you notice these ladies sitting at Rake Radovic's place? Only three months full personal income of a hundred percent, as an employer's obligation, and the remaining 12 months, 70% of the budget, of course, if there's enough funds. However, distinguished ladies of the Parliament should know that so far it has been for a third child a birthright for two years. In this proposal, ladies of honor, there are not two years in the labour law but only a year. Besides, I used my three minutes, I'm tired of the last debate. I think each and every one of you has reason to vote on the withdrawal of the labour law from the procedure, because it's enough to say that we've all filed over 250 amendments on it. So it's a law that literally puts the key in the lock and opens the door to the colonial position of the Republic of Serbia and the colonial, so to speak, slave, position of employees in enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13044	We're going to make a decision. Please make a statement about the proposal of the chairman of the SPS parliamentary group - removing it from the agenda of the draft labour law. Please state by voting. For 60, against 96, with 39 abstentions, it did not vote 13, and a total of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested withdrawing from the proposed agenda 13th point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling assembly to look at the situation in the area of production and transport of tobacco and tobacco products, which was submitted by a group of 40 MPs of the DOS-Dr Vojislav Kostunica - the Democratic Party of Serbia on 14 September 2001. Does the MP, Mr. Risticevic, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13045	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we of the Vojvodina Coalition have read with great respect this proposal for a decision to set up a committee of inquiry to see the situation in tobacco production and the traffic of tobacco processing. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Are you also for fertilizer... When I discuss the fertilizer, I'll mention you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13046	Mr. Risticevic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13047	But, Mr. President, you should have told him, too. It's an honor to pay such a fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13048	I'm asking you to listen to me and take this seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13049	I repeat, we have considered this proposal with great care, and we would warmly support it if it weren't for a few things in this motion for a decision. The first thing is a time to make a proposal. The date on which the proposal was submitted was mentioned by the speaker of the assembly, which is 14 September. There are also older proposals here, such as proposals from the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina Assembly, which are six months old. It is true that the business conditions for the proposal to be found on the agenda have been met, but the conditions have also been met for the duchy laws, i.e. the draft laws, to be found on the agenda. The conditions have also been met for the proposals of some opposition MPs to be found on the agenda. So it was supposed to be respected for a while, some date of submission. The second thing that interfered with us in this text of the decision - prejudges guilt. If there are no amendments, we will vote firmly against this proposal, as the text prejudges the Serbian government's guilt. As evidence is offered writing by the press, it means "National." Since when does "National" care about the Serbian state? Whose interest is being defended by the Nationals? National only defends the interests of smuggling lobbys that are damaged by the government of the Republic of Serbia, and this can be their revenge. To remind, the government of the Republic of Serbia, only in one month, has charged 800 tonnes of tobacco contributions, taxes and excise duties, while in the past five years the old government has charged everything at 700 tonnes. In five years! And the new Government of the Republic of Serbia has charged 800 tonnes in one month, if that is its fault, and the text prejudges the guilt, and it is evidenced in foreign press. The third thing that bothers us to finally support this proposal is the composition of a committee that does not correspond to the strength and attitude of the forces in this congregation. All conditions have been met that, for some political reasons, the government, which is responsible for suppressing tobacco smuggling, has been found guilty. The fourth thing that bothers us is a time period that would be questioned according to this decision. The time period covers only the time since the new Government of the Republic of Serbia arrived. I think the text of the decision should include an amendment covering the period of the old government when the smuggling was obvious. I'm afraid this is about politics, or politics can bring the country back, and the country is more important than any policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13050	Proposer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13051	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, if all the truth is what the promoter has said to remove this item from the agenda, I don't see why the government would mind discussing it. If it is true that illegal trade has been contained, that the flows of illegal trade have been put under control, then why would the government be afraid of such a proposal and why Mr. Risticevic is proposing this. On the contrary, this is then in the government's interest to show how much it has actually been done to suppress all of this and, simply, at times when there has been a lot of talk about the existence of illegal trade, we expected the government that claims is not responsible for what is happening, but that it has reduced everything that it does to reduce, expect from the government itself or from representatives of parties that support the government to come themselves to propose such a committee, in order to eliminate any doubt whether someone supports or does not support illegal trade in tobacco and tobacco products in Serbia. It is not the committee that will determine constitutionality and legality, it is not its jurisdiction, it should launch an initiative to identify a number of other things -- how damaged the budgets of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia have been, and, if there is an illegal tobacco trade, it is simple to remove all the misunderstandings. We don't want to believe in writing, not Nationals, but the Guardians and the Financial Times, which are far more serious leaves than the Nationals. We don't want to believe their claims. Simply, we expect to remove doubts from a young democratic authority in Serbia that something is being done here that is not within the law, because it is also important for the country's reputation in Europe and the international community. We think that's why the purpose of this committee is to remove these doubts, to determine whether or not this exists, to remove doubts from the authorities. We don't want as part of this government, and the DSS is a member of the DOS, to be involved in something, if there's an illegal tobacco trade. As far as the composition of the committee is concerned, it can be discussed, and we have suggested that the largest DOS parliamentary group has the most, that the other parliamentary groups have fewer and that all newly formed parliamentary groups, if they are to be decided, have one member, because we believe that all parties and all parliamentary groups must participate in making such a decision. Me, I have to say, and I believe all my colleagues who have signed this decision, it's surprising that someone simply won't give the opportunity to take off their responsibility for the existence of illegal trade. All of this, and this proposal to take this off the agenda, is just determining that we were right when we submitted this proposal to determine whether it really exists or not in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13052	Thank you very much. I am putting on the vote by draft MP Marijan Risticevic to withdraw from the proposed agenda 13th point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to look at the situation in the area of tobacco and tobacco production and transport. For 21, against 149, abstentions 6, 15 did not vote, a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. There is a word Mr. Vladan Batic (one more proposal, in the context of a proposal to remove it from the agenda).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13053	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a representative of the proposing government of the Republic of Serbia, I propose that the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia be withdrawn from the proposed agenda, simply for reasons of consistency, or compliance with the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. I will explain in two sentences what this means - when this session of the Republic of Parliament was scheduled and when the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposed to amend and supplement the Criminal Law on the agenda, there was no announcement that federal Criminal Law would be amended. The whole point of the story is that federal criminal law determines the types of criminal sanctions. The federal Penal Code has so far known as criminal sanctions, including the death penalty, and in terms of imprisonment, it envisioned a maximum time sentence of 20 years in prison, as compensation for the death penalty, i.e. 15 years in prison, as the highest or longest time sentence. A federal-level proposal, amending the federal Penal Code, which will be on the agenda of the federal parliament the day after tomorrow, envisions the abolition of the death penalty and envisions a maximum time limit of 20 years in prison to 40 years. Since the promoter had no opportunity to move beyond the framework of criminal sanctions under federal law in the Republic law, we were only able to propose a 20-year sentence for those crimes, for which the death penalty was intended, not longer. Now, with these amendments to federal criminal law, it is possible to impose a prison sentence of 20 years, or 40 years, for the most serious crimes. In order to allow this proposal to be brought into line with these amendments, I find it rational to withdraw in a few days the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Law until the adoption, I repeat, in a few days' time, the federal Criminal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13054	Thank you very much. We find that the proposer of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has been withdrawn... He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13055	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I should have gotten my word right after the Minister of Justice, we might have avoided the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which was done at this hour. In fact, Article 86(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly says: "Proposals for the withdrawal of certain points from the proposed agenda shall be delivered no later than 24 hours before the start of the session of the National Assembly". Well, if someone should know how to work here, in this assembly, then it should be the minister of justice, then it should be the president of the National Assembly, then it should be the secretary of the National Assembly. Stop hurting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia more. This bill has been in the process for several months. It wasn't tonight that the federal government decided to amend federal criminal law, so that's why it's like this. We would accept it if I were not to go out for this pay phone, we would, of course, accept that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia stops and that our laws and federal laws are harmonised. But it's as if the Benelux countries have made a decision to change the criminal law, so now it's stopping us right now, right now, a telegram has arrived. It is not true, it has long been said in the professional and general public that a proposal to amend federal criminal law is being prepared. We authorized the Federal Assembly here to pass federal criminal law, we took it off ourselves, first Montenegro, and she, so she withdrew her consent. It doesn't matter, after all. But at this time, the minister could not withdraw the motion for an act in the assembly procedure. It's a mockery with the MPs. We've been reading this bill for days, writing amendments to it. He could have written a letter to the National Assembly on Thursday, when it was the last day for the amendment to be handed over, and so the minister could write a letter to the National Assembly and everything would be fine. And like this, it turns out that MPs are working, preparing for a session, and they have no idea whether the government will make a decision at night to withdraw the bill from the procedure or not. I mean, on your conscience, but I'm asking you to vote on this violation of the Rules of Procedure and I'm going to ask whenever there are obvious injuries to the Rules of Procedure. One day, in a chronicle of lawlessness, this breach of the Rules of Procedure will certainly have an honorary place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13056	The Proposer has the right at any moment, both in determining the agenda and during the debate, and in deciding on the amendment, until the time of adoption by the National Assembly, to withdraw the bill. It can be declared and oral in the sitting itself. On page 43, Article 141 of this new Rules of Procedure reads: "The legislator has the right to withdraw the bill until the finalisation of the bill at the session of the National Assembly." Since we haven't finished searching the proposal, it's obvious that the promoter was right (the voices - we haven't even started it), so we haven't even started, so we couldn't even end it before. I ask the MPs to make a statement about Mr Tomislav Nikolic's objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. For 26, against 135, abstentioned 32, was not voted 14, a total of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has found that there has been no damage to the Rules of Procedure. He has the word Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13057	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can perform different equilibrists here, but this Rules of Procedure is very clear. The president of the National Assembly referred us to a completely different provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I agree - when one point enters the agenda, it has its proposal again. During the search he says - I'm giving up this point, and everything's fine. But this is congregation business. This is the work of the MPs. An unauthorized member of the government of the Republic of Serbia has become involved in the job, which is called setting the agenda. He doesn't have the right to expire 24 hours before the session starts to interfere with our agenda. I'd like to ask you for silence... Go outside and talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13058	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13059	Or that I don't get any warning when I throw, I agree. I agree that we all do, but don't just give us a heads-up when we throw. So, it's all clear. The 86th article is very clear. He precedes Article 141, which is being called upon by the National Assembly president. To get to Article 141, we have to go through Article 86. It has the sole president of the National Assembly and MPs, not the Government. The government can't determine the agenda. It's no longer her own. That stopped yesterday at 10.00 hours. The government could have dropped the act yesterday to 10.00 hours. He can't today. Today we can decide, and here you listen to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, whenever it does not work well, since nothing is doing well, I am convinced that those of you, who boast with their knowledge of legal science, know that you have hurt the Rules of Procedure. But the right to tell you something, here I am as a repeater would be ashamed to know what a violation of the Rules of Procedure is, to know how humiliating this is to the National Assembly and to put into the yoke of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to vote for it. I forgive only those of you who live in blissful ignorance, and you who know what harm you do to the Rules of Procedure, it is all your fault. Don't be surprised when people slap ministers on the streets.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13060	We've already spoken about this, but in Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of Rule 2 states that infringements of the Rules of Procedure are not regarded as decisions of the National Assembly and of the President of the National Assembly to be made on the basis of discretionary powers provided for in these Rules of Procedure. Because of those who learn slowly, I will not utter any warning. We have already spoken of it. I have nothing to put to the vote. We're going to propose an expansion of the agenda. You have received a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - the Democratic Party of Serbia on 9 October 2001. I would like to remind you on this occasion that Article 43 is Section 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are scheduled for the National Assembly to decide on the resolution and selection of a new member of the board at the first next session after the parliamentary group's proposal has been submitted. Since the above-mentioned draft decision is not contained in the draft agenda for this session, it is necessary to extend the session agenda to this point, respecting the rules of procedure. I therefore propose to extend the agenda of the session by proposing amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - the Democratic Party of Serbia. For 152, there are no, no abstentions, no vote of 50, a total of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. National MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, suggested that the agenda be extended to the point -- the draft law repealing the Government of Serbia Decision No 713-6483/01 since 28 June 2001, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Dragan Tomic on 2 July 2001. The People's MP Zoran Nikolic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13061	I would like to give a brief explanation of this request for today's agenda to be extended by considering these points of the agenda, in my name and on behalf of Dragan Tomic. We wrote this bill and sent it to procedure on August 2nd. In its form and content, it meets all the conditions to be found on the agenda. I do not see any reason why the congregations should not express their relationship with the attitude that we have put forward in this proposal. Let me remind you that we have proposed that the government's decision of June 28th be abolished and put out of force for a number of reasons. First of all, because this government decision, in our opinion, violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the SRJ Constitution, as well as the Federal Constitutional Court's decision of 28 June this year. Article 47 has been broken. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed that a citizen of the Republic of Serbia cannot be deprived of citizenship, exiled, or extradited, as well as an appropriate member of the federal constitution. A solution to introduce a provisional measure was also violated in the procedure of assessing the constitutionality of the Federal Government Regulation on the co-operation procedure with The Hague tribunal, as well as any acts and actions arising out of that decision. That's before he's a member of 129. The Constitution of the SRJ stipulates that the decision of the Federal Constitutional Court is a decision that is general and enforceable. What is particularly absurd is the opinion given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the proposal for this law, which stated that the law cannot put aside government decisions. It is absurd that such an opinion comes from the government, which, by one single act with only a few words, has done something that we, as a state and a good part of the people, will be ashamed of for a long time, because no country or country that seeks to regard itself as a rule of law has allowed it. That is why we believe that the Assembly should put this on the agenda as soon as possible and distance itself from one such act by the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13062	I am putting on the vote by MP Branislav Ivkovic to extend the agenda to the point - Proposal for a law to repeal the Government of Serbia's decision No 713-6483/01 since 28 June 2001. For 59, there are no 134 abstentions, no vote of 10, a total of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, suggested that the agenda be extended to the point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the lack of freedom, kidnapping and delivery to The Hague tribunal of the SPS President Slobodan Milosevic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2001. Does MP Branislav Ivkovic want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13063	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we live in a time when the current regime in power is busy with various research, especially on the eve of November 4th and local elections in 18 municipalities where forced administration is introduced, to speed up the chances of its candidates in these elections. If we find the culprits, thieves, criminals and mobsters, it would be good to deal with what is likely to happen in addition to the burning of the Federal Assembly and the state radio - television, there will be an event in the minds of every citizen in the world when he thinks about the Serbian people, Serbia and Yugoslavia. It is an event to deprive the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Slobodan Milosevic. The request was submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group to the assembly on 8 May and even reached agreements with parliamentary group presidents on the composition of the polling committee. Why has this request not been put on the agenda of any regular session or even extraordinary sessions, where minor matters have been discussed in relation to such a major event, which has left a trail in our people, but also in the world's public, the leadership of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly should explain it. Meanwhile, as the moment of freedom of Slobodan Milosevic was replaced by another major event, which is that Vidovdan was committed, factually, kidnapping and delivery of Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague tribunal, many dilemmas have been put ahead of those who are in love with the independence of Serbia's judicial system. Whether the key people in Serbia's judicial system, primarily an investigative judge whose exclusive jurisdiction was held by the detainee Slobodan Milosevic, were informed and agreed that their detainee was brought out of Central Prison or not, which is a key point in deciding whether Serbia's justice system is at all independent or completely under the authority of the executive authority. It is certainly something that should be of interest to you MPs, who are concerned about the legality and legislation in this country of Serbia, as well as the citizens of Serbia, certainly those outside this country. That is why we withdrew the previous proposal on August 16th only to deprive freedom, and since we have received new elements by the government of Serbia's activity, which is also kidnapping and delivery to The Hague tribunal, we have submitted a request to form a polling committee. Our proposal to you, as in the previous case -- if it is considered the import of tobacco and who steals this country and this people -- is it not necessary to consider whether it is the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, whether it is the President of the District Court in Belgrade, whether the investigative judge knew what was going on with his prisoner at all, and all those who are dealing with legal regulation, including me as a citizen, I know that no detainee in any case can touch it without the consent of the investigative judge who runs the case. So we are in a situation where we should also talk about black nylon socks over our heads, to whether the judicial system was even involved in the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague tribunal, whether it was kidnapping or not. It's just that it's about events that are of a global scale. About us, about our generation, will be judged according to our relationship with what happened. Therefore, I suggest you adopt a proposal to form a committee of inquiry. Let him work on it. The truth he gives, so be it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13064	I am putting on the vote by MP Branislav Ivkovic to extend the agenda to the point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine the facts and circumstances related to the deprivement of freedom, kidnapping and delivery to The Hague tribunal of Serbian Socialist Party President Slobodan Milosevic. Please state by voting. For 63, against 125, a abstentioned one, was not voted by 15, a total of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this proposal. We have a proposal to conduct a joint principle search. National MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - Democratic Party of Serbia, based on article. 86th and 137th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on the proposals of the law by point. 5-9 of the proposed agenda: Proposal for a Law on Courts, Proposal for a Law on Judges, Proposal for a Law on the High Council of Justice, Proposal for a Law on Public Commercialation and Proposal for a Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. Does the promoter, MP Dejan Mihajlov, want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I am putting to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Dejan Mihajl to carry out a joint principled search on the drafts of the law according to paragraphs 5-9 of the proposed agenda. For 129, v, 54, abstention one, did not vote 19, a total of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Proposal for a change in the order of certain items of the agenda. National MP Dragan Pavlovic suggested that the 2nd item of the agenda The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport in Road Transport, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, be considered after considering the 11th item of the agenda -- the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce, which was submitted by a group of eight MPs. Does MP Dragan Pavlovic want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I would like to put on the vote by MP Dragan Pavlovic to consider the 2nd item of the agenda - Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport in Road Transport after considering the 11th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce. For 126, against 16, abstentioned 39, 25, a total of 206 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all points adopted by an emergency procedure, as well as on the basis of a proposal for amendments and amendments to the agenda, shall be included in the agenda of the sittings in accordance with the order of their proposal, i.e. acceptance. The proposals for acts adopted as new items of the agenda, the committees responsible, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports, or opinions during the course of the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for an emergency procedure and proposals for amendments and additions to the proposed agenda, I would like to ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the agenda of the session in general. For 135, against 46, there were no abstentions, there was no 24 vote, a total of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001 as a whole. There's a word Mr. Nikolic - a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13065	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find that by the draft agenda, and even now finally adopted by the agenda, the President of the National Assembly has violated the provision of Article 200. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, item 1, which reads: "The National Assembly's session to discuss the government's trust or individual member, shall be held at the earliest date of three days, and no later than 15 days after the day after the motion for a non-confidential vote." The SRS parliamentary group has tabled two proposals for a vote of mistrust to members of the government of the Republic of Serbia. One submitted for the vote of mistrust to Minister Gaš Knezevic, and was listed in the National Assembly protocol on 30 May 2001. The second proposal is to vote for mistrust from Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic. He was seduced on 19 April 2001 and completed on 13 September 2001. And now there's no question of whether or not he will. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, under Article 200. Rules of Procedure, he had to put on the agenda a proposal to vote for mistrust with the two ministers. There's no alternative here anymore. There's no voting here anymore about anything. The president of the National Assembly received material from the parliamentary group, sent it to the MPs, ran for months, and I don't know what it was about. Is it possible that you can usurp the rights just as much and not pay attention to what has been accepted and adopted? I understand you don't like some of the rules of the Rules of Procedure. You're getting along, you're adapting. As soon as you see that there is some possibility that the MP is speaking, you are denying the possibility of altering and supplementing it. Let it be for you. But this isn't touched in the Rules of Procedure. This remains as a clear, fully defined provision of the Rules of Procedure -- it must be proposed within three to 15 days for the government or the minister to be on the agenda of the National Assembly's session. Now, the one who should warn the president of the National Assembly of Heads should be used to think, to read the Rules of Procedure, so that the president of the National Assembly, who may not want to hurt the Rules of Procedure, does not want to hurt him, should probably have some expert advisor. And if this expert advisor is constantly deluding him, then there's no excuse for the president of the National Assembly anymore, because the man is in writing, and when we read to him this clearly what he says in the Rules of Procedure, I guess he also understands that he is in violation of the rules of the Rules of Procedure here. Please, Mr. President of the National Assembly, put to the vote - did you harm the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Article 200, paragraph 1, by ignoring the obligation to put the motion to distrust ministers, Mr. Gaš Knezevic and Mr. Dusan Mihajlovic, on the agenda within three to 15 days. If you had put them on the agenda on time, we wouldn't have gone into conflict with the Serbian Orthodox Church for the introduction of religion into the school system. You'd avoid clashes with the people about digging up old graves where our fathers, grandfathers and grandfathers are. Everything in Serbia would have been better if you had put this on time, if you had respected the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13066	You have, of course, had the opportunity to suggest an addition to the agenda. I'm surprised you didn't. I almost understood that as giving up the proposal you made. You had, of course. No, no, if I was obliged, the error can be corrected, among other things, by finding it out, so it is proposed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure - the addition of the agenda. [[You can't hear any comments from the gym.]] Did you see the stimuli? I would like to vote on Mr Nikolic's remarks that there has been an injury to article 200. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 58, against 80, with 20 abstentions, 33, a total of 191 MPs did not vote. Now we are just ahead of the usual time to interrupt - for a break, which will be up to 15 hours, so I ask the Administrative Board and the Service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda session, to hand it over to the MPs. The Management Board should hold a session in order to prepare a proposal to the Assembly on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure in order to determine the order of speakers at the sitting. I have noticed that there has been a conflict that has not been corrected by regulation on the Legislative Committee, nor by amendment, and that there may be some doubt about the provisions of Articles 89 and 91, which in some ways inaccurate the way in which the order of speakers is determined. It may be clear, but in order to avoid a number of objections, I ask the Administrative Board to establish a proposal on which the Assembly will declare itself. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to determine if we have a quorum to continue the work of the National Assembly. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before we move to the 1st item of the agenda, I'll get to know the opinion of the Administrative Committee. At its session held on 22 October 2001, following the request of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and on the basis of Article 69, the Management Board discussed the application of Article 89(1), paragraph 1 and Article 91 of Article 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and gives an opinion. Article 89, paragraph 5, reads: "The Members of the People, in turn, as to whether they support or dispute the proposal, as stated in the application for the word". Article 91 of Article 2 reads: "If MPs from several parliamentary groups are reported for the debate, the President of the National Assembly gives them the word in turn, so that the MP who is a member of the least-numbered parliamentary group first speaks to the greatest number, as long as there are registered speakers." These provisions should be applied in such a way as to educate two groups of speakers, one for and one against, and the two groups of speakers receive word from the MPs alternately, respecting Article 91(2). When the two groups are exhausted, the word is given alternately according to the size of the parliamentary group, and when the order is exhausted, the word is given to the rest of the MPs according to the order in the application. The National Assembly has the power to interpret the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I ask that this opinion of the Administrative Committee on the application of Articles 89 and 91. State your rules of procedure by voting. For 131, there was no, abstention one, no vote 34, a total of 166. I find that the National Assembly has given an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the opinion of the Administrative Committee. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Implementation of the Census of Populations, Households and dwellings in 2001. FOR YEARS IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA, you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Natasa Jovanovic and Aleksandar Vukic, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I also remind you that before the debate is opened, the president of the parliamentary group may propose an eventary extension of the time to discuss the law of principle. I ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups to submit lists, applications for the word of their parliamentary groups. The total time of the debate is in principle five hours plus the time outside of this time, the presidents of the parliamentary groups, the elected rapporteurs, the MPs who set out the opinion and representatives of the government on the committees. So, in these five hours of debate for MPs, the Democratic opposition's parliamentary group has two hours and 21 minutes, the DOS parliamentary group -- Vojislav Kostunica -- the Democratic Party of Serbia 54 minutes, the DOS parliamentary group -- New Serbia 9 minutes, the DOS parliamentary group -- Vojislav Kostunica -- the Movement for Democratic Serbia 6 minutes, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group 44 minutes, the Serbian Radical Party's 27-minute parliamentary group of the Serb Unity Party 16 minutes. For this, of course, and the time of 20 minutes that the presidents of the parliamentary groups have. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13068	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me, as a representative of the Government, to briefly explain the proposal for this law. This law is very short and it is somewhat extorted, as it is due to a change in federal law that postpones the census of the population, households and dwellings, which was planned in this year, for a year, so that the list will be held in April of next year. A similar law has already been amended in Montenegro and we as the Republic of Serbia are obliged to adapt our law to federal law, so that the purpose of amending the law is to adapt the law of the Republic of Serbia to the relevant federal law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13069	Thank you, Mr. Domazette. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr. Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13070	Dear Mr. President, fellow MPs, the suspension of the application of the law on the execution of the census, households and dwellings in 2001 is bad for our country. This should be determined and the bill rejected. This bill speaks, unfortunately, of our government of the Republic of Serbia that it is slow, inefficient, insecure, incompetent, irresponsible and politically shortsighted. Why is our government slow, inefficient, irresponsible? If the implementation of the census is regulated by the federal law and laws of the Republic of Member States and if the federal law has made an amendment to the deadline for holding elections from April of this year on April 2002, if these and other deadlines were to be met with the adopted federal law and to comply with the laws of the Republic of Serbia, why is the National Assembly doing so only now, October 22nd of the current year. Why wasn't this done immediately after the federal Law on Changes to the Census Act was adopted? What has the Government of the Republic of Serbia been waiting for so far? It is seen, however, from these documents that the government brought these amendments and additions to the law at the July 3rd session and delivered the proposal to the Parliament on July 17th, but only now, three months later, comes on the agenda. The list of households, populations and apartments, as the largest statistical action in one country every ten years, is delayed for another year. Serbia's parliament and lawmakers are due to give their court only now, in late October. However, it has happened that twice already the National Assembly is discussing very important issues for the work of the Serbian Parliament and the lives of citizens, such as the Rules of Procedure, even for this reason an extraordinary session has been scheduled. It is obvious that the government's greatest obstacle to good work is MPs of the National Assembly of Serbia, but, behold, there was no time or understanding (maybe and knowledge) to put this law on the Assembly's agenda. Even in Montenegro, as one of the republics of the member states, they passed a law on the postponement of the 2002 census before the federal law, and our assembly did not do so and our government was late with the proposal. Our government did not provide for funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget to carry out the census. Why? Either she didn't know what actions the census had to do and what resources were needed, or she knew in advance that the census wouldn't be. However, it can be seen that the lack of money is also mentioned as one reason for the census to be only in 2002. The consequences of non-implementation of the country's census are not said by the government. Ten or more years is a time period in the demographic development of the state, especially in certain areas, or in cities. We in Serbia have a situation that in certain areas, such as The province of Kosovo and Metohija, the census has not been held for more than two decades and there is a statistical gap regarding accurate data, there are only estimates for 1991. That, unfortunately, also applies to two municipalities in southern Serbia, Presevo and Bujanovac. Why am I bringing this up? The 2001 census was supposed to be the ninth census of the population to be held, organised in Serbia, and to remind me, first in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, or the state of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, and later in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and after World War II and in the Socialist Yugoslavia, censuses were conducted in 1921, 1931, 1948, 1953, 1961, 1971, 1981, 1991 (since 1961, according to the international recommendations of the United Nations to perform the censuses in the first year starting with the unit). Only when the census was not completed was it in the years of World War II, i.e. 1941 and was not carried out in Kosovo and Metohija in 1991. Why am I bringing this up? Because this country's data is important and it needs to be taken care of and taken care of. We do not, of course, care about the problems of the census in the parts of the former Yugoslavia, so-called. other Yugoslavia, but we should be interested in the problems related to the census for the province of Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. the Bujanovac and Presevo municipalities, which are mostly inhabited by Albanians. As is known, most members of the Albanian national minority have for political reasons refused to participate in census activities, to provide the requested data. The Albanian national minority in Presevo and Bujanovac municipalities did the same. The estimate of the statisticians was that some 60,000 people were left out in these two municipalities at the time. Compared to the estimates, since there are no data on the number of inhabitants of the two municipalities in 1991, the census was not covered, i.e. the census boycotted 68% of the citizens of the two municipalities. So the real census in these two municipalities hasn't been implemented since 1981, more than 20 years ago. What does that mean? From the point of view of demographic change, it's all in itself. What can it mean for the population of these municipalities, it can be concluded. How many estimates of the number of inhabitants are not correct, it says in itself what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija, because in the organisation of UNMIK and so on. The voters' registration was also carried out by the census and showed that the data offered by UNMIK was far less than those whose members of the Albanian national minority speculated about their number. It can be concluded that it is also worth the same for Presevo and Bujanovac. A demographic picture of these two municipalities, the exact census by national, ethnicity, also takes note because of the announced way of solving problems in these two municipalities and in Medvedja. The question is, what data will be considered, if it comes to that at all. We are not yet, as the National Assembly, familiar with all plans for resolving the situation in southern Serbia, we do not know what the content of these plans, these provisions. It is mentioned the ethnic principle, i.e. the principle of ethnicity as crucial, when forming certain organs. Since the census has not been completed in 1991 and is now delayed for another year, data will, instead of January 2002, be made available to the public only in January 2003, and the population structure is obviously changing. It is not unknown that more and more members of the Albanian national minority are moving on the ground, and one number of Serbs, Montenegrins, Roma are moving and this will contribute to changing ethnic structures, i.e. changing the demographic image in the municipality. How can citizens, all those who are interested in the future and the fate of these two municipalities, be sure that the real data will be taken into account if our Government of the Republic of Serbia has not joined the census and received relevant information, which can be the basis for solving this problem? Now this list is now being delayed for another year and, obviously, consciously or unconsciously, goes to the hands of a kind of political and other pressure that may mean a lack of information related to the ethnic structure of the population. We did not come from the Government (we heard from Mr. Minister the argument that compliance with federal law) received an answer as to why the application of this law at the federal level was delayed. We saw, there was only one reason in the history of this country that conditioned that the census was not maintained: it was war, and it was world war, and we didn't have such situations, so it would be interesting to hear why there was a delay in the 2001 census, because I'm saying that this list could have long-term and bad consequences. Because of all this, and especially because of the situation in southern Serbia, which neither we nor the Assembly nor the public are aware of all plans to solve the problem of the area, we believe that it is very bad that the census is delayed for next year. We think it's bad that the government is now offering us one such act that needs to be determined, and we Socialists, we'll throw it away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13071	He has the word Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13072	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Soviet Union will not vote in favour of the census law, households and housing, for several reasons. At first glance, this law seems quite naive and quite insignificant. It's just a prolonging date of the census, households and apartments. Basically, the problem is much bigger. The problem is much bigger precisely because it raises several key issues, which concern all of us, especially the citizens of Serbia, especially the states of Serbia and the SRJ. The following questions are: the question is how will the census of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija be carried out; which the government currently in Serbia can carry out a list of Serbs and other non-Albanians living in Kosovo and Metohija; how many of these apartments will be burned, how many of these houses have been destroyed and how many Albanians and houses have emigrated in Kosovo and Metohija, residents of the NR Albania, who used an interagency, namely a vacuum during the rule of UNMIK and KFOR in Kosovo and Metohija, and who are now residents of these houses and these apartments. How do you make a list in that case? The second question that is being asked is also very important -- when will this government give the right to citizenship and thus the right to write down refugees from Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska? There are about 500,000 of them in Yugoslavia. They have no right to vote and they are citizens of the second and third order in Serbia and Yugoslavia. The issue was not resolved by the previous government, as it feared that if they were citizens of Serbia and Yugoslavia, they would vote against the previous regime, which is partly to blame for their exodus and their disability. The same problem is probably the current government, as it fears that in the next election, refugees from Krajina and Republika Srpska will vote against this government, which has done nothing to help them and resolve their status. So these are two key issues, concerning the census in Serbia. We cannot compare the Republic of Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the census. The Republic of Montenegro is still unique and there is not a single part of Montenegro where authorities in Montenegro cannot make a census. There's another thing in Serbia. In Serbia, unfortunately, the heart of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija is out of charge of the current government and cannot have the current authority to carry out the census, neither the population in Kosovo or Metohija, nor the Serbs, nor the Albanians, let alone the list of houses and apartments located in Kosovo and Metohija in good condition, or which are burned, or destroyed, or moved by Albanians from Albania. So there's a big difference in that, and the government can't compare the census in Montenegro and the census in Serbia -- because there's a big difference between these two lists. What's also worrying is the fact that it's going to the population list anyway. I do not agree with the Serbian government's proposal either, but also with my predecessor's proposal, which expressed his dissatisfaction that the census is not being carried out this year. We of the Soviet Union believe that the census should be postponed until that moment until conditions are created to make a list in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. We think it is less evil than to make a census in central Serbia alone without making a census in Kosovo and Metohija. Two of the evils should be chosen less evil, and less evil is not to forget our people living in Kosovo and Metohija. According to all estimates, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija range from 110m to 120m. No one knows exactly how many there are, but these are figures that are approximately accurate. Should we forget them and should we not write them down for the census in Serbia? The SJJ believes it is less evil to postpone the census until we can list both Serbs and non-Albanians, but also Albanians, because they are residents of the SRJ, unfortunately, according to the resolution, not the citizens of Serbia, but in any case residents of the SRJ, which still exists and whose part is the Republic of Serbia. So, we think that the list should be postponed and we propose to the Serbian government to withdraw this proposal for the sake of good for all of us, and for the sake of the good of those people we all forgot and who live in Kosovo and Metohija and for the sake of those people who have escaped from Kosovo and Metohija, who we have not listed now when we have had the opportunity, but we have only performed the voter registration. That's why it doesn't stand the password that was on all those slides, on all the sites and on all the posters that circulated during the registration "Let's see how many of us there are," because that's not true, it was supposed to say, "Let's see how many voters in Kosovo and Metohija, and those who don't have the right to vote," because that's why we forgot our children, who are 17, 16, 15 and less, because we haven't registered them because they don't have the right to vote. So it wasn't a census, it was just a voter registration. That is why it would be good for the Serbian government to withdraw the bill and submit a bill on the census of Serbs and non-Albanians, who had to avoid Kosovo and Metohijah, who are fighting around the Republic of Serbia today, and a smaller part of the Republic of Montenegro. It's the only possible list that can be executed at this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13073	He has the word Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13074	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I apologize to the other SRS MPs for being denied the right to speak of the laws they have been seriously prepared for and what a minute, as far as we have calculated that they will have at their disposal, will be very little to present to the citizens of Serbia, as MPs equal to the rest. We have before us a bill that entered the assembly procedure on July 3, 2001. Since then, we have had extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and at the request of the Government, and at the request of an authorised group of MPs, but until today, this law has not been found in the assembly procedure, so it sounds almost pointless to explain that the exclusive reason for putting this law on the agenda is that the Federal Assembly has passed a proper federal law, to which we have to adapt. Here is now a final example where we prove that we are a member of the SRJ, and since the DOS is in power and in the SRJ, and in the Republic of Serbia, decisions must be made in the federal state. When the Federal Assembly refused to pass the Law on the extradition of citizens to The Hague, the government of the Republic of Serbia also ignored the Federal Assembly, and the Federal Constitutional Court, but passed some of its regulations that regulated what it must not and cannot regulate. We're here talking about postponing a delayed voter list, we're dealing with March 31st, or April, it doesn't matter, this year, which passed six or seven months ago. We do not look too much like people who are concerned about the fate of the state and who do their job seriously. Montenegro, they say, passed a law on postponing the census before federal law. I think there's a key to at least one lock, from a few locks that have locked relations in the SRJ. But here's at least one key. Montenegro can do whatever it wants. Well, even when he does something that doesn't have a foothold in federal laws, we then run after the decision of the Republic of Montenegro and carry it out almost as if it were an ultimatum, she did Montenegro, so what is Serbia waiting for? Montenegro has done a lot of bad things, just work when Serbia would run after it and do everything that Montenegro does, in a short time we wouldn't have just SRJ, we wouldn't even have a Republic of Serbia. The bill is unprepared, the bill is unserious. Of course, he'll be adopted. But what if it doesn't? Whether or not we're going to take the time machine back and declare that the moon is now March and we're going to make a list. He's unprepared because his reasonings are lame and they don't match the truth. They're unprepared because we don't see anything here about the funds that have been allocated to the census so far and spent on the census, or we don't see if 35,800,000 dinars were singled out in 2000, whether 395,972,925 dinars were singled out in 2001. It was an obligation under the Law that is still in force and that obligation the legislator does not change this bill. The funds were also spent by the Republic and the Geodetic Institute of Statistics, did they deliver to the Government of the Republic of Serbia the spending of these funds, were we as MPs responsible for taking care of everything in this country, did we get a report on where these funds were spent? The government warns us there's not enough resources. I think the budget envisions 200 million for this year, so the government says there's not enough resources to run the list. How come in a five-fold budget we're projecting less resources for the census, even in December of last year? Is that a sign that DOS authorities aren't ready to make a census at any time? I think that's the basic reason. You don't dare execute the list, because you don't know what to do with the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija. There are several categories of these citizens compared to racial, religious background, compared to where they are now, whether they are displaced, emigrated, whether they live in their own or other homes. You don't even dare to change Article 15. The law, which we have regulated to execute the census, but that we will not make a list in Kosovo and Metohija while UNMIK is there and the UN's provisional administration. You're saying there's no time to make a list of citizens in the Republic of Serbia, and I'm asking you how do you explicitly register voters from Kosovo and Metohija? How did you change your attitude by 180% first, and here I remind you that I know that you are so well built that you do not respect any of the decisions of the National Assembly, not one law, not one decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia made before your term of office? But as you trampled on the decision of this National Assembly in one term, one in two, take it unanimously, which said that we would not accept the Constitution written by Hans Hekerup. My dear MPs, it's an obligation for you. It is an obligation for all of Serbia not to accept the Hans Hekerup Constitution. This congregation has made the decision unanimously. You followed that decision for a month, and then you invited voters to register. You've involved the Serbian Orthodox Church, too, so that voters can show what's ours and see how many of us are there. We haven't even shown what ours is, because it's not proven by registering voters, it's by books that we already have. We took them out of Kosovo and Metohija. And you haven't even proven how many of us we are. With this voter registration, our children are not included. The list would determine how many of us we are. Now, if a single congratulatory government went into the propaganda list, she'd say, "Come out, sign up and let's see how many of us we are." That would be all the propaganda that Serbian citizens, still satisfied with patriotism towards this country, are sufficient to respond to voter registration. You don't think of that. This delay in the census for only four months, with a power like this that has not remembered to delay the census in a timely manner, does not guarantee that we will have a census on the territory of the Republic of Serbia at the beginning of next year. There are many problems you have brought to this country by coming to power. What forms and lists will be, what will all be if some DOS parties are listened to, will be kilometre long forms. The Tungos will also appear. Sure. It's about this power that's willing to introduce it if someone ever orders it. Of course, the MPs of the SRS accepted the reality of the amendments, accepted that the census was not within the deadline set by the Law. We accept and choke you will not be able to carry out the list, nor within what time you are now giving yourself. Why sit down again when all of us in this room know there won't be a list in March. The census will be when the census is ordered, not when the National Assembly is agreed on the census, and on deadlines in the Law adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I suggest you, if you're thinking about the list, go ahead and prepare for the list. I don't see those preparations anywhere. This isn't where the Minister of Science was supposed to explain the bill to us. Of course, he didn't even explain it to us. That should be done by those who are guilty of not carrying out the list. It is the minister of justice and local self-government that the minister whose name of the ministry has now been changed, so it is no longer as it was in the law. You don't have to go out here for a pay phone someone who's not in charge, who you can't tell in the eyes: Minister, why did we do it in time? The science ministry will worry about carrying out all the activities, but the list organisation, the list material is in charge of the other two ministries. I can't bring a government representative here, except he's carrying the terrible guilt of being in such a bad government, in connection with this bill of law, I can't blame him. But at my place, they say, "Who are you with?" I repeat, we have submitted applications for discussion and have settled into a group of MPs who will vote against the draft of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13075	MP Cedomir Jovanovic answered the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13076	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, an example of fundamental political irresponsibility is a debate that we are forced to listen to and in which the opposition is unique in the criticism of the government, and in this function we are recognised because we have formed the government as the parliamentary majority. It's unique in conclusion that the census shouldn't be. But, truth be told, with different motives. Some people think the census shouldn't be because it wasn't there in the meantime, and others think it shouldn't be until there's a prerequisite that's completely unpredictable. In our essence, we faced a fact that stemmed from the irresponsible political action of the previous regime. On March 31st, the assembly adopted the Republic of Serbia's 2001 budget and allocated 200m dinars under the budget to prepare the census. Two hundred million to prepare the list! That's clearly said there. The census should not be primarily a political issue, although I agree that at this point in time, the list is. We've adapted to reality. The reality, in its character, is what the previous government was. After winning Kosovo and Metohija, all you have left is to explain why you did not complete the list after your victory, and for such a thing you did not have to go all the way to Pristina. You could have written down hundreds of thousands of those who followed your victory in tractor trailers in Belgrade. If you wanted to resolve the issue of citizenship with your coalition partners, you could, unfortunately, solve it over the past 10 years. You shouldn't have solved that question where you started, on the Karlobag-Carlovac-Ogulin-Virovica line, but again, unfortunately, in tractor trailers that also arrived in this city. Don't politicize the subject that's too serious. Allow the Republic government, in line with the federal government's decisions and the federal parliament, to try to implement a comprehensive and organised census in both Montenegro and Serbia. I believe we will manage to list the citizens of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. Any other critical relationship with the Republic Government may be accepted if it has stemmed from the intention of carrying out the list properly, better than it has been before. But if this critical attitude towards us is an arbitrary, hasty and unargumented attitude intended to in every, but at every moment and unrelated to the occasion express political paroles which are too difficult for citizens' ears after 10 years, I don't think you can count on support. Both the Republic government and DOS MPs thought a lot about this on March 31st when they voted on the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is what our MPs in the Council of Citizens and the Greater Republic have been thinking about, and the people in charge of organising the census at the moment have determined the resources that are sufficient to cover all costs, and I think by adopting the 2002 budget, we will be able to organise a list that will be implemented in six months.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13077	Mr. Nikolic, you have no reason to replicate. There was no mention of anyone's name or the name of a party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13078	You can't do that, Mr. President. The 98th article was injured because I was offended by a previous speaker. He insulted me by putting Serbian Radical Party politics into something ugly, something bad, which he spoke offensively about the Karlobag-Karlovac-Ogulin-Virovica line. It's the last Western line of Serbian countries, whether you want it or not. I didn't make it up. It was not invented by the Serbian Radical Party, but by the proposal of the 1915 London Agreement, when we were offered it, because it was the attitude of the population and such a relationship of ownership over the property. I can't have someone drilling ears in 1991 asking me why I didn't defend Karlobag-Ogulin-Karlovac-Virovitica. I was there to defend. If I was the first to escape from the trenches, I could be accused of being stuck in a trench. Whoever didn't think about it doesn't even have to mention that line. I would never mention that. Every one of you who participated in the war, feel free to tell me whatever he wants. These others, who turned off the light, who hid when the caller came, shall cover themselves with their ears. And this power won't last long.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13079	You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure. There was no mention of your party's name or name. It's a miracle where you all recognize each other. There was nothing like that mentioned in the Rules of Procedure. Don't make unnecessary faces. The replica is obtained when a member of parliament by name, by function, a parliamentary group, a party, is spoken of as an insult to the account of a parliamentary group, party or MP. None of it was. You called the Rules of Procedure and abused the call again. Are you asking for the Assembly to declare a violation of Article 98? Rules of Procedure? I ask the National Assembly to plead Article 98's injury. For 45, against 117 abstentions, there was no vote 41, a total of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has assessed that there has been no damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13080	I do not accept your argument, I will always demand the right to replicat the moment when it is known exactly that the Serbian Radical Party is being thought of. Any speaker who comes out here says the former regime is to blame for an exodus of Serbs in tractor trailers, make sure that the Serbian Radical Party MP, who has the right to do so, will come out to warn him to say who it is -- and the name of the party, and the name of political figures. You can't an block.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13081	No, Mr. Nikolic, you've reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please stick to the subject. You already have one warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13082	Don't, please, my other son can lose his shoes if you've solved it today. I'm just telling you I don't know what this is about. Did I accept the Dayton Agreement or all of you? Did I accept the Ahtisaari-Cernomyrd and Resolution agreement, or is it all you who are in power now? Was I in jail when Krajina fell or were you in jail, dear gentlemen?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13083	There's a word from the MP, Mr. Cirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13084	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, for the sake of the public, to clarify the matter: this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the census, households and dwellings in 2001 in the Republic of Serbia is, in fact, only a text containing the future amendments to the previous law. Of course, we can argue on why the list was not carried out within the time limit provided for by the previous law. Of course, there are explanations for that, too. There are reasons. The budget was adopted in March. Earlier, the law provided for the census to be completed on the first month. The new democratic government was waiting for many problems after 5 October 2000. If we want to honor her with some ineffectiveness, I believe that, with regard to the delay of this deadline, we have at least a reason to do so. Once again, simply, this proposal on amendments and additions to the Law seeks to set deadlines that have been found, that is, the condition in which we have been found mutilated. As far as the census is concerned, it is one civilizational liquid of all modern countries of Europe, even those that were not. And the Ottoman Empire made a list of population, property and households, there are Turkish depositors, etc. The Austro-Hungarian Empire also had a census as an organised state. The communist Yugoslavia also had censuses. It's possible that she respected those deadlines, because she was simply untouchable. At this point, indeed, the list is what is imposed as an imperative, as an obligation. We have to finish it within the time limit we've prescribed. There are some things here that will be a problem. Here's the problem. I doubt that overnumbering of apartments, i.e. overnumbering of apartments, streets, full sign-off tables, etc. have been performed. I have these objections. But I really expect local self-government, especially in places where we've packed Communism in the drawer of history, to do that prenumeration right now, to kind of emulate the state of things. Of course, I insist that some old names be replaced by some new names. It is best that street names be simple geographical names, historical definitions, etc. We don't have to, therefore, replace the old names with a new one, since I'm against it, in principle, who's like it and who's unsuitable. Simply, the New Serbia parliamentary group has considered this bill, and we point out once again - this is not about any fundamental change to the previous law, but simply about the deadlines in which we are found. For this reason, because of the civilization's need to monitor the modern flows of all modern countries of Europe, the New Serbia parliamentary group will support the census law, households and property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13085	If none of the representatives of the parliamentary groups come forward for a word anymore, the first MP is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13086	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the budget of the Republic of Serbia was voted for 2001, I proposed that the projected funds of 200 million dinars be allocated to prepare for the budget's budget and be allocated to another budget consumer. That's when I had a reason. I was talking about Kosovo then. I do not want to repeat this, I would now like to talk about exiles in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for more than a decade. Some exiled persons, except that they are entitled to citizenship, and they still do not have it, have the right to citizenship because one of their parents is a citizen of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and another on one basis - because they have already married the citizen of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia, they have a family, children, and something that has not been resolved in this government, and because of that, I think that this list... Here, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13087	The next speaker is MP Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13088	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable fellow Members of the People, as regards the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on the List of Population, I think that in previous speeches everything has been said, and there is not much to be said, because the proposed amendments and additions apply only to figures, so on the dates that are conditioned and Mr. Minister explained it in the right way. Those who spoke of the shortcomings, or difficulties we will face in implementing the list, are right, primarily when they spoke about these difficulties located in the Kosovo and Metohija areas. However, it is not the only area that will have some difficulties, there are other areas. Of course some of those speakers know about it, but they didn't want to say it. It is clear to all of you that there is one area, a border area towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, where a large number of the population there has been displaced, exiled. They've been murdered and kidnapped, etc. When I mentioned the kidnappers, today it turns out to be exactly nine years when a group of 17 Bosniaks was kidnapped in the northern meat community, in the village of Mioce, the municipality of Priboj. I got a telegram this morning from a number of family members of those kidnapped, asking me to point it out, remind the citizens. I don't want to abuse this pay phone, not because I've got pockets in my pockets and they're shallow, but because of my morals and, above all, professional ethics. So I ask Mr. President if he will allow me to grant the wish of those citizens who have asked me to say some information regarding this kidnapping.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13089	I would be obliged to remind you not to do so, because it really is not in the Rules of Procedure, and yet, on the other hand, I have a need, and on behalf of those I represent here, that there is no misread in the public opinion of taking the right to say it, and I ask that it be in the shortest possible form possible indeed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13090	Thank you. I'll make sure it's as short as possible. So, on October 22, 1992, at seven o'clock in the village of Mioce at the formerly burned Amphora bar, the property of Juze Adem, from a bus that was trafficked on the Priboj-North line, 17 Bosniaks, Muslims, were abducted from the area of the northern-Priboj local community, and taken in an unknown direction. On the same day, according to a statement by military sources published in "The Battle" on October 24th and 25th, they were massacred at Visegrad Banja. Citizens between the ages of 22 and 50 were liquidated, at the time. So, there were two men on the bus who threw out all the Muslims, except for one child. One stood by the bus driver Stojkan (the name of Stojanovic) and the other damaged between the seats and kicked out Muslims. He also threw out a Serb, who was threatened to have a good time as they did, pointing his head towards certain Muslims, if he once again happens to be sitting with them in the same seat. Some say he was brought out because he protested the Muslim act. Still, they let him travel with other Serbian national travellers. There were five other armed men out there, all wearing mask uniforms, and they were cashed out. Muslims were immediately thrown into a military truck, which was without registration plates, masked, dragged into some bushes, into an intersection, with such a dragged cabin. Judging from the fact that the people, Muslims, who were taking off the bus without difficulty, without any ID or ID, recognized who was a Serb and who was Muslim, can be assumed that at least those two who took civilians, Muslims, from the bus were locals. This also indicates the way Ilija Kitic, a driver from the North, traveled to work in Priboj, was his underage son and 12-year-old son, Živić Esada. Just two more sentences, please. Admir was standing next to Kitic's son, and when the bastard caught little Admiral by the shoulder to take him out, Elijah shook his hand and said, "It's fine." To finish, since you're impatient, and I don't know why you're impatient. I don't want to think anyone feels called. Let me just say that little Admir is alive and he's somewhere abroad, and of all the faces I mentioned, no one's ever been heard about this case. Mr. President, I thank you once again for allowing me, on behalf of those who have asked, to present this to you, and also to you, dear fellow Members of the People.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13091	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, and let Branislav Blažic be prepared. (Glasses: Zarko Obradovic has already spoken. ) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic, followed by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13092	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs will be very interesting on the basis of this new Rules of Procedure, which we adopted at the previous session, how time will be measured and how MP groups will behave. Based on the experience we have had here this morning, I think that this group, which was formed at one of the previous sessions in order to make a new, truly high-quality Rules of Procedure, will be very quickly activated, and I think that, indeed, as far as these amendments to the Rules of Procedure that are in the consolidated text are concerned, it is very difficult for us MPs, as well as you, Mr. President. As far as this law is concerned, I can only say that this is a revolutionary shift in relation to those laws we had at the beginning, which was delivered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, an expert government, given that of these eight members the deadline in one member has already passed, on September 30th, and that the last time on two members has been proposed by one to two amendments, and only one amendment has been proposed on this occasion to eight members. Secondly, I can really say that the amendments to this law are necessary and not necessary. More importantly, we heard from the government and Mr. Minister as far as it came in preparation for the census, which should be held from April 1st to 15th 2002, precisely for the reasons mentioned here. During the debate on the 2001 budget, we all suggested a given item of the projected 200 million should be deleted or whether these funds should be increased and all preparations for the uninterrupted execution of the census, households and dwellings in 2002. I must also say that, as far as this reasoning of the law is concerned, the government of Serbia and the ministry are not making a list. The list is carried out by professional organisations, statistical institutions and censuses, i.e. the organisation of a census at the level of municipalities. I took part in the 1981 census as a student in 1991 as an instructor and I can say that the largest operation is mostly brought down to municipal census committees and statistical institutions and their departments in municipalities. So I think it's irresponsible after six months of forming a government, three months from the adoption of a budget or three months after the government submitted the bill to the Assembly, that we discuss this. I think after 50 or 60 years, this is the first time in history that the census hasn't been made in time, and I really think that the data that we should have had is extremely significant, especially when you've been set up that this is the first year of the new century, the first year of the new millennium and you'll be remembered for having no condition or any data in that first year of the millennium. There are a lot of interesting data that should be provided here and through list programmes, so that we can determine the right direction of development through some development strategy of our country's Serbia. A lot has been said here about the census and households in Kosovo. It is my question - whether it will be a unique list in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. It's interesting how and where some of our ministers, members of the government will be listed. Interestingly, too, what will be the lists of people who have been exiled, exiled, given that they mainly regard us as Serbians, and they are Serbs. Whether the government will wait for Serbia's country to continue to disintegrate continues to fall back. I can really say that these data, and about the number of employees, the number of unemployed, children, young and old, are very important for the future strategy, if there is any development in this country of Serbia. I think that every listing unit -- whether it's a household, whether it's a resident -- is special and specific and that with preparations for this large business should be started as soon as possible. According to the data and activities in the territory of the municipality I come from, and I haven't seen any major activity, in terms of street marking, or setting up home numbers, or any major activity in the geodetic administration to issue a solution to the home number, as far as the housing itself is concerned. I would really like for the third time to participate in the census and in some way help to provide the best data in order to develop this country's future.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13093	The People's Messenger Branislav Blazic has the word, and the next is the People's Messenger Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're discussing one issue that is not as minor as the promoter wants to present it. Some questions, before a proposal like this is adopted, need to be answered anyway. Whether we're going to make any proposals in a partial way again, or once, we're going to definitely try any serious problem that exists in this country to solve. Why are we talking today about the Federal Assembly making a decision on the census, and on account of what Montenegro did, it should adopt and accept Serbia as well. Serbia certainly has far more problems to address in some preconditions so that it can even address this problem. I'll just list them briefly, and that's whether it's possible to run a list in Kosovo, whether we're going to list refugees, or if I'm going to go out here like one of the MPs did, so he was saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13095	The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic, and the next is MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13096	We have a very important issue on the agenda for the country, for the nation, for the people, but it seems to me that we have been brought, as MPs, before the final act, because if we choose to support this amendment of the law, we will have consequences, and if we reject it again, the consequences remain. The only thing that's good is that I've received information that the government has proposed changes and additions to the parent books, which will make a significant contribution to making people who are from other areas, outside the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, who have moved to our country, able to register. I'd like to talk this time about the consequences of not implementing the 2001 census. Non-implementation, precisely from the aspect of what will happen when we do it next year, when it comes to the fate of people in Kosovo and Metohija, and exiled from Kosovo and Metohija. If the list had been implemented according to the current law, if it had been implemented this year, we would certainly have known, listed the number of people in Kosovo and Metohija and exiled from Kosovo and Metohija, would have listed their property, houses and apartments, would not have left space, interspace, to pressure the international community and to plant another fraud and fraud and the leadership of our country, and Serbia and the Serb people, arguing that it is necessary to register Serbs and other non-Albanian living. The very act of registration has been carried out under the pressure of our ministries, people from the government and the leadership of our country and although our people know what it means to register for elections, which means an electoral campaign, and also Serbs and Montenegrins from Kosovo and Metohija, both in Kosovo and Metohija, and how well they know what the November Shiparian elections mean and the consequences they will suffer afterwards. They are aware that on November 18th they will arrive in the new Shipar state, regardless of what the international community claims... (President: Mr. Lazic, please stick to the agenda theme, population list. ....................................................................................................... Serbs have many benefits. As for earlier lists, I have to say a few words about the 1991 census, which have been boycotted by the absolute majority of Shipara because they did not want to recognise the state of Serbia as their own. As for the elections since 1981, there have been many machinations and manipulations by the then province authorities because they have provided the members of the list committees, or promised compensation for the number of persons listed, and there have been dozens of times in the list, and in some places as many as five or more times. Because of this, the number is as high as it was high in 1981, and so as not to reveal the fact that much less Shipara was in 1991, these elections were boycotted. I wonder how our country will carry out a census in Kosovo and Metohija after the November elections, because we know that the Kosovo Parliament's session is already scheduled in advance, and practically the international community with these elections is handing over power, and legislative, and enforcement, and judicial, and local, in the hands of the majority population there, Shipara, without any mode of vetoing certain decisions. If they decide not to let our state authorities run the list, then what? In this year's year, if we'd done that list by law, we could have done that. Secondly, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija and the very list of people in Kosovo and Metohija, and exiled from Kosovo and Metohija, is not a party matter. I think that this is both a national and a state issue and I think we should reach some consensus there and not fall for the international community's pranks and not convince the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, and exiled, to go to these elections that are under the auspices of the international community in fact organised and sought by the Shipari.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13097	The word has a folk MP, Miroljub Veljkovic, and the next reported for the discussion is Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13098	The delay in the application of the law is logical, it is the federal law that makes us state-national reasons. That was enough as an explanation by the government. However, in an explanation, the written explanation irritates the fact that 200 million are planned for 2001 in the Republic of Serbia's budget, but that these funds are not enough for budgetary reasons to prepare for the census. I ask where these planned funds are, because those funds that are planned are so far well-prepared from the citizens of Serbia. If Djelic says the budget is achieved as planned, it means that it is simple mathematics, right about 150 million dinars have been collected and I am interested in where these funds are. Whether these funds have been used to pay the paper of the writer of the new constitution, the wife of Yugoslav President Vojislav Kostunica, or those funds have been spent on the establishment of these powerful agencies established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or on the hypodromics, racial horses, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13099	The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic, and the next is the National MP Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13100	Dear Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, esteemed journalists, esteemed Mr. Panajotovic, the census of the population in one country is not just a collection of data on people and property, it is primarily the basis for many events in different areas of one country, citizens of that state and one nation. It is incorrectly interpreted that all parliamentary groups here are unique in the view that the census should not be this year. On the contrary, we advocate that it be done as planned in 2001. Statistics is a discipline that can prove everything. Some translate it as an accurate set of incorrect data, but the census is the basis for, above all, those areas that are important in one country to show to the population, to show themselves to entities, institutions, that these data can draw what is necessary in the next decade and that these data are also found in many international organisations, and in the competent authorities, above all the United Nations and many others, such as some European Commissions. All of this is primarily to present ourselves as a state and as a citizen with what we are, to know how many of us there are, what property we have, what our national, qualifications and any other structure, what our structure of property is, what our potential in each of these items is, and the responsibility of the government among other things is to make a timely list of the population. I'm curious here if it will come to the National Assembly during this year to rebalance the budget position of 200 million dinars, which is foreseen for the cost of preparing the census? If that doesn't happen, I will be interested and I will ask a parliamentary question, when the time comes -- how are these funds spent and how is this position explained? An attempt to talk about the people of Kosovo and Metohija here today in an extremely malice context has already been seen in this National Assembly. You, respected DOS gentlemen, have just claimed that the relationship to Kosovo is a democratic issue, that relations with Montenegro is a democratic issue, that total relations in the Federation are a democratic issue and that it will be resolved when democratic political forces come to power in Serbia. Those political forces, as you claim, are now in power in Serbia, and then resolve these issues in line with the election programme and promises. But, of course, it's a story in an election campaign, it's a story for little kids, it's a story that won't last much longer. You either act as a responsible authority, or you're being punished by voters in the next election. But it's not the subject here today. I would like to say only two sentences and the propo one discussion we heard here, which had one difficult political message - the place of the North is located in the Rudo municipality, is therefore not located on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the municipality of Rudo is not located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. At that time when this terrible event happened...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13101	Mr. Baralic, that's not the subject of the agenda either, and I didn't let you talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13102	Mrs. Micic,...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13103	Mr. Zeljo was allowed by Mr. Chairman, and I do not allow you to speak beyond the subject of the agenda and he had reason to approve it to Mr. Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13104	Please, may I ask you, as the gentleman you mentioned asked Mr. Martian to allow me 30 seconds? Please allow me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13105	I've already told you, I'm not letting you speak beyond the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13106	I'm sorry, I know it's the dream of every Wagon to become a Chachanka, but we have strong criteria, so it won't pass. However, it was the presidency's duty to say that your hateful president of the then state, Slobodan Milosevic, was personally coming to that territory, to guarantee the citizens of Prepolje with regard to the sad and unfortunate event that took place. So we sincerely regret what happened, but the connotation in which it was said today, I said, it has a very, very problematic political message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13107	The People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13108	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the law prolonging the census shows all the senseless existence and especially the survival of DOS authorities. What was already regulated by federal law, what was done in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and then in the SFRY, here now, DOS interrupted it. And what it is, but disrespect for the state, disrespect for the law, disrespect for regulations and acts. And what's even more problematic about it -- that DOS actually, through this law, accepts the occupation and separation of Kosovo and Metohija. That's why DOS is the worst. That is why the law should not be passed, until real conditions are created that Kosovo and Metohija and legally, and indeed, and in fact do not return to the framework of the single territory of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13109	The word is from the People's MP Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13110	Dear fellow Members, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, as explained in the explanation, is contained in Article 71. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the Republic authorities, within the framework of established rights and duties of the Republic, establish policy, adopt and enforce laws and other regulations and general acts. At first sight, this proposal on amendments to the Census Act represents a purely formal alignment of the existing legal text with the new names of the republican authorities, e.g. with the amended Government and Ministry Act. What is characteristic of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the List of Populations, Households and Apartments is that the most important delay in the deadlines in which the census of the population, households and dwellings should be carried out is in accordance with the first Serbia-SRJ system. I think this delay is contrary to the most vital interests of our country, because this is the right time and the right time to realize the same, especially if we know that the census of the population, households and dwellings is the largest statistical action to be carried out at the level of the entire state every 10 years, and the last list we had, as we know, in 1991. I must also conclude that, instead of insisting on respecting and implementing our regulations, as regards the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, the country's legal authorities have called on the Kosovo and Metohija population to register for the upcoming Hekerup elections, which are scheduled for November 17th. In my opinion, this registration is not in line with the current legislation of our country and instead of insisting on determining - who is a citizen of the SRJ in Kosovo and Metohija, and who is an illegal Cypriot immigrant from Albania, Macedonia, by calling for registration in fact helped the OSCE to legalise their status on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. It is difficult to take the impression that the postponement of the census is further enabling our enemy to consolidate and formalise the practical situation in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. That's why the question is asked - if it was known that it would register, i.e. the census to be in 2001, why has the Republic of Serbia's budget not provided sufficient resources for such a single action? Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija ask themselves -- how will the 2002 census take place on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? Finally, to remind you that the SPS has advocated that, instead of registering for the population, Kosovo and Metohija, instead of registering for the population, the population list would be done in the right way, thus obtaining a picture of the ethnic situation in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as a pawn, and advocated, for strict respect of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ constitution. For the above reasons, we, MPs of the SPS, will not accept these amendments to the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in 2002. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13111	The word is given by MP Aleksandar Vucic, a follow-up MP from Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13112	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're not SRS idiots because we have to talk like this for a minute, it's thanks to the idiotic Rules of Procedure adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so we need to talk for a minute. We can't go any faster. In any case, we consider this bill to be very bad, to be brought at a bad time and should have been brought much earlier. In September, or October, the DOS came to power, they were in the government of Milomir Minic. Then they could prepare all of this for March of the month, to make the list in March of the month. This way, since he's gone, we realized he's not going to be here. At the same time, I must inform the president of the National Assembly that I have heard from Serbs from the village of Podrava, not far from Srebrenica. Somehow at this time, nine years ago, they had a terrible accident and a terrible tragedy. Muslims from Srebrenica killed them all and stole them, mostly women and children, when they raided their village. I believe that even part of those who have escaped must get citizenship most urgently and be listed. I also believe that all those from the Association of Kidnapped and Exile Persons from Kosovo and Metohija finally deserve some information, that they are satisfied, that we are talking about it the right way and only then to be listed. That's why in the end line, it's not bad that all of this is delayed. I apologize to my colleagues for speaking for a minute and ten seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13113	You had no reason to rush, you have 47 minutes in total for your parliamentary group. But if you think of the pay phone as a fashion runway, that's a different one. I'm just saying that you've misexplained, you've got 27 minutes left. Injury of the Rules of Procedure - Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13114	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a total of 27 minutes for us 23 MPs in the National Assembly. Don't deceive the public. And all the MPs of the SRS were chosen to speak in the National Assembly, not to remain silent and to vote for what anyone here suggested. The MPs of the SRS will do their parliamentary duty, will not read the paper, will not bite seeds or anything else, and that is why we have the right to speak for a minute, a minute and something. Of course, the head of the parliamentary group has the right to speak twice for 10 minutes. That's true. So I didn't lie to you. I didn't deceive the public, but the public needs to know these facts. And the fact that you can't make peace with such a grotesque assembly, the way it looks now, the way you call out the MPs and everyone sees it, and the representatives of the government are laughing, except they won't come out and say it here, it's funny to the whole people. Well, then that's your problem and the representatives of your party, who voted in favour of this proposal by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13115	There's a word from the MP, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13116	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, I will use my right to make another announcement, although I may call on a replica, and I will try to contribute to the quality of your debate by pointing to a failure by my colleague who has critically referred to DOS's activities regarding the treatment of our evasive countrymen from the former Yugoslavia's space. I must remind you of a decision arising from the will of DOS MPs to the Council of Citizens and the Greater Republic of the SRJ Assembly in January of the month, when amendments to the Law on Citizenship after 10 years allowed our evasive compatriots to gain citizenship of the SRJ. From that day on average, in one month, the Federal Police Department issued 17,000 certificates of acquired citizenship. At the moment, officers of the Federal Police Department are processing 50,000 demands. So this state takes care of all citizens and we don't make any difference between them. In this conversation, which is in the function of analysing the proposed amendments to the Census Act, we no longer vulgarize someone's misfortune. So, please, take this as a serious remark to an unargumented criticism that cannot stand as something that contributes to the quality of our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13117	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13118	Please, Mr. President, give me an article. In 89. and 91., the records show how much time there is left for the SRS parliamentary group, as we would like each Serbian Radical Party MP to speak in the same length of time. So now I'm interested in how much time the SRS MPs have at their disposal to... There may be a few more seconds, maybe too soon our MPs are interrupting the discussion, so maybe there'll be a minute left that we won't be able to use.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13119	The SRS parliamentary group is available for 22 minutes and your second announcement as deputy president of the parliamentary group. You can use that time as a member of the Parliament. The word has a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13120	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the 50 seconds that I have at my disposal because my colleague Vukic spent 10 seconds from my presentation, I will try to figure out where 200 million have gone by budgeting the Government of the Republic of Serbia to conduct preparations for the census. I think 100 million dinars went to pay for advertising videos on all televisions in Yugoslavia to register voters for the Hekerup elections in Kosovo, and that those other 100 million went to Stanko Subotic Canet's plane, from which a plane shot of terrain, houses, apartments and facilities was made to help list the population.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13121	The People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word. Let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13122	Ladies and gentlemen, it is likely that the shooting in Kosovo and Metohija will be done with free aircraft, or in fact, the Co-ordination Body will do so, as much quality performs. As for those 200 million dinars that are scheduled, however, we think that these funds are less than the funds Mr. Covic received for co-ordination in southern Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. We see here that the Assembly as a legislative body is no longer engaged in law-making and their control, but the government has taken over as an executive body of that authority. What does the congregation really mean? All that is brought here in the Assembly, votes, in fact DOS does as it suits him. You saw that the chairman did not warn Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic when he muddled the Serbian Radical Party here, but quietly went over it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13123	The word is issued by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, followed by Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13124	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mr. Ljubomir Jelisavčić, the Municipality of Bajin Basta, on winning the parliamentary term and wish him success in performing my duties as a councilman in the Bayin Bastov Municipality Assembly. As far as this law is concerned, it has long been clear to the citizens of Serbia that you are unable to start production, I think of you from the current government, to create something new, but from today on, it will be quite clear to them that you are unable to write down what you found in the state of Serbia when you took over last year. A few things in this proposal are very important. It's important where 200 million dinars are, which are projected by this year's budget, what about those funds, are spent and in what way. Also, some of the activities of this proposal are due to some dates, for example for September 30th of this year, and this law is now in the Assembly at the end of October. So there are some illogicalities in this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13125	He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic. After that, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13126	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the inability of a heavily compromised DOS government is also shown through a proposal to postpone the population census for 2002. In fact, it is obvious that the Dosmanian government does not respect the Constitution and the applicable laws in this country. Both from representatives of the ruling parliamentary groups and from the government representatives today we heard that the government was planning, we had opportunities to see in the projected budget, which is five times bigger than the 2000 budget, that this amount is 200 million dinars, not dollars, as Mr Jovanovic said. It is that in 2000, the Government passed the Law on the List in Serbia, which was due to be carried out in 2001, but because of your incompetence and negligence, it is delayed until until your Western employers say that it is time for you to carry out the census. But that amount, gentlemen of the DOS MPs, is 395,725,975 dinars. It is your obligation under the law that is valid and which was passed in 2000, to design funds in this direction for the census. What do you care about Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija? What do you care about Serbs from Western Serbian countries? You wrote them off a long time ago. Of course, you've done it through the policy you've been leading for the last 10 years. Unfortunately, Serbia with you in power cannot expect this kind of territory of the state that we have will be preserved.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13127	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. After him, MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are no conditions for the adoption of this law, so I will be against the adoption of that law. First of all, the law was to be passed and land, cadastrian and land books, as well as the basic books, and thus have a complete overview of the population and immovable property. That is why, firstly, for the past year as the new government came to power, all these records were to be edited, especially the residence records. On the other hand, the detailed, land and cadastrian books represent the fiction of absolute accuracy. With that information, the state should have insight and believe in that information. That's why I don't think there's any place for this law to be passed right now. I can also say that in the federal government we asked the previous government and our coalition partners to address all the demands of citizens who came to Serbia from Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska and from the territory of the southern province of Kosovo and Metohija. At that point, however, there were over 100,000 pending cases. To this day, we have not been able to answer that question. I think a few cases have been resolved in relation to the acquisition of citizenship of citizens who have expressed their wish and who have submitted their demands.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13129	There's a word from MP Stevan Kesejic. After him, MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13130	D. and B.C.E., the census of the population, households and dwellings, this bill, which proposes new deadlines for preparation, organisation and implementation of the census, speaks of three things: 1. The ministry of justice, which was competent to implement the Law on the list of 1-15 April 2001, is not able, or competent minister, to deal with other non-Serbs (as the delivery of Serbs to The Hague) failed to implement the applicable law. 2. The five-octobar revolution, the arson of the Assembly, also destroyed the material that was partly prepared, so that now, with the preparation, organisation and implementation of the sea, it starts from the very beginning, which is also the reason for the delay of the Law on the list and delay of deadlines. 3. The government's South Serbian co-ordinator (Nebojsa Covic) has introduced such a concern that Serbia's borders are not known, and even less is known which population and whose housing will be listed, because as far as the general public is aware, this is not yet in line with Hans Hekerup. That's why this bill isn't good. Apart from being late on this list, the government has not even provided conditions to determine the actual state of affairs even roughly. Maybe someone new October 5th. That is why I propose that the government ensure the sovereignty of the Serbian state. To provide Serbian citizens with the right to citizenship from which the property subject to the census will also arise. Consensus with the federal law for a proposing is only an excuse because so far no law has been passed in this House for the DOS government is a sacred letter. A SRS rally will be held in Zrenjanin on Friday, October 26th, starting at 3:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13131	Thank you for contributing to the debate on this serious law. There is a word from MP Ljubomir Kragovic. After him, the People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13132	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we need to make a decision to postpone the census of the Serb population, i.e. the population in the Republic of Serbia. The reason is the inability of the government of the Republic of Serbia or, as it says, the lack of money. These funds were to be provided through a donation, by conditioning Serbs to register. However, for who knows which time, the European Community has deceived them, so the funds are not allocated. A deal is now being made on how much it takes for the international community to give funds to re-condition the Serbian government in Kosovo and Metohija by forcing them to go to the election scheduled for November 17th. I believe that this trade of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is currently being held at the heart of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, is a shameful act not recorded in Serbian history and practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13133	There's a word from MP Lazar Marjanski. After that, the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13134	I don't think you have the 200 million dinar money you've set. But if you're going to solve that list, I think it's wrong. I'll ask one question: what about those Shiptars who live in various houses without being reported? As far as refugees and exiled persons are concerned, there are 9,600 of them. A unique decision has been made. You'll hear the decision on October 26th at a rally in Zrenjanin. It's an important decision. So, come to the rally on October 26 at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13135	The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13136	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law should have been put on the agenda a long time ago. Thanks to DOS authorities, this year 2001, he was left without realisation. The DOS probably wants to deal with some of the obstacles to the laws, such as the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, privatisation, tobacco, oil and so forth. The elected Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly is the personal wish of some DOS leaders. The amendments and additions to the Census and Households Act relate to nine new members. The changes relate exclusively to the times that have passed. So time should be shifted by 2004. I don't have a comment about 200 million dinars stored, except the dynamics of these couples need someone to control. As Serbia's budget will be set to a negative level, I do not believe there will be any subsequent money for this census. What will the lists look like? Don't you know that? You are waiting for the European Union to issue you forms that must comply with their wishes. The government didn't have time, the people know it, and the projects I've already mentioned are more important than this law, but the reason for this delay can also be linked to refugees from all places. It is important that this delay creates a new demographic picture in Serbia, which is that Serbs are not majority people, according to the new section now written by Mrs Zorica Radovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13137	The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarević has the word, and then the People's Messenger Gordan Pop-Lazic. Irregularity. I'm sorry, I don't have Mircic. Here you go, Milorad Mircic, sorry, followed by Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13138	Such a bill is a continuation of Serbia's DOS farce. Farsa is looked at in the fact that it is accessible to the amendment proposal and complementing such an important law with a proposal to postpone it by one year, not seeing either content or essence, let alone taking into account the consequences that will be produced. It is inescapable that this DOS power in its behaviour is a debt power towards the international community, because how else do we interpret such an explanation of the reasons for the postponement of such a law, i.e. its application, the census of the population? Perhaps by harmonising with the international community's desire, because the international community was keeping track of Serbia. Why did DOS not use this to execute the census with our presence in Kosovo and Metohija? What is the fear of us Serbian radicals is that there will be a new method of the census that the European Community will dictate to DOS, and the greatest fear is still because of the way it will be done in Vojvodina, given that separatists in Vojvodina, with the help of DOS, are raising their heads.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13139	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, and then Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13140	Your non-democratic Rules of Procedure, which has left me time in seconds to explain this and every other law that is on the agenda, leaves me with the opportunity to ask the government one question. The budget for 2000 provided funds of 16.88,000 dinars for the financing of the Republic Bureau of Statistics and the Republic Geodetic Institute, plus 35,800,000 for other purposes, and for local self-government, the city of Belgrade and those to list. For 2000, the law predicted that the budget must allocate the funds of 396.000,000; 2002 - 20.400,000; 2003 - 8891,000. Since the allocation of funds for these purposes was a legal obligation, I ask the question -- how could the Serbian government plan only 200,000.00 instead of 395,972.925? So, in advance, she knew there wouldn't be a list. These funds, of course, should also have been valorised on the basis of parameters established by the economic policy in the area of public consumption, according to the growth rate of the total budget, and how much the budget has increased compared to 2000, it is likely that so far clear to all - five times. Both institutions were obliged to inform the Serbian government by the end of March this year about the spending of funds secured by the Republic of Serbia's budget in the previous year and the operations and tasks carried out by the census provided for in that year, and, of course, the Serbian government then the Assembly. These reports and answers to these questions should be an integral part of the reasoning. The reasoning given by the Serbian government is absolutely gross and not enough for us to be able to support such a bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13141	The word is by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, followed by Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13142	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the census, households and dwellings in 2001 is very short. Most importantly, in the amendment proposal, deadlines for the 2002 census are delayed. Practically, there is a delay in the census. Serbian Radical Party MPs doubt the deadline will be respected, so we tried to show you through the amendments. On the other hand, this list will be conducted on the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is under foreign occupation, so there is a great danger of whether the list will be valid and valid, whether the local Cypriot population will not be listed more times, whether there will be threats to Serbs and whether more Serbs will remain in Kosovo and Metohija by then. What is most important, I ask you -- how will we list those 1,300 citizens of Serbia who have been kidnapped, who have disappeared. Can we tell them they're dead? Are they alive? In which section will they be classified? The "missing" section of the census for the census is missing. Their families search day and night for them, demand answers from the government of the Republic of Serbia, ask us -- tell us where they are, whether they are alive or dead. How do we list them?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13143	The word has a folk MP Goran Cvetanovic, followed by Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13144	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, DOS obviously selectively complies with federal and republican laws according to the criteria only known to them. The laws are not prepared enough, and above all, I find it better to act preventively, so to schedule a census of the population, households and dwellings in a time period that is realistic that the list can be made. After more than a year of DOS rule, we have no right to be optimistic, as it is obvious that DOS has no personnel, knowledge and skills to make a timely and precise census. Since they haven't completed that list in good time, and they don't know what territory they're supposed to do it on, they're not focused enough in space or in time. What matters most to us is that there is a negative birth rate in Serbia, and that there is no municipality in Vojvodina where there is a positive rate, that one Serbian family has 0.9% of children, means no child per family, that the Shipage family has nearly seven children, or 6.6, so that, according to all the analyses in Serbia, there will be no more Serbs. That's what we should be more interested in than this inadequate census. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13145	The word is made by MP Dragan Colic. You've got 11 minutes left, what are you gonna talk about in those 11 minutes? Now the problem is when there's something serious to be said.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13146	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, your nakaradic understanding of democracy makes what it makes of the Serbian parliament. This is a major disgrace for parliamentary democracy in Serbia (if it is owned by DOS and has) -- that all MPs are in some way prevented from taking their opinion on the bill in one way or another. What about the bill of law, and having limited time and so much restriction that it often amounts to only one minute? What can convince us of the dung and the inconclusive justification of such a bill as the rapporteur of the motion very much and briefly put out, so I guess when he sat down in the bench he was aware that he had done something of quality and something that would benefit the citizens of Serbia. If the government of the Republic of Serbia wanted to make a census, had had a serious approach to the problem, it could have done so. There was plenty of space and time. But all the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing is doing this -- the unserious display of not intending to do something serious in the country and, possibly, to change the benefit of the people. You are supposed to comply with the laws passed by the Federal Assembly with the republican regulations, so as you often do according to your will, you take something from these federal regulations, and what you don't like is a depraved mockery and you very often violate the Constitution and the laws of this country, and in fact you show the true nature of your Dossmanian authority. This National Assembly has decided not to accept the constitutional frameworks of Hans Hekerup and now, without any regret, without feeling of honor and dignity, we violate the decision of the National Assembly, we violate the decision that we all have made here together. Most likely you'll be running a census when you get a warrant for it, when you get a moment from your Western employers, from your West bosses. Until that moment arrives, until this approval arrives, I do not believe anything positive will be done, because you in your operation, especially the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not incoherent, is not independent. Someone has to line you up, whether you're in Segedin or somewhere else, so they can tell you how to do it, and that's what's really holding you back. You might be more successful, but you're not alone, you're not incoherent in decision-making.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13147	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13148	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you should not have adopted a decision on the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure, which puts MPs in a position to run from the pay phone so that colleagues from the parliamentary group would not take away a second or two of the parliamentary group for debate. I think we'd have a pretty serious discussion on this agenda point. I don't know why you ran away from the Rules of Procedure from a serious debate, but I'm going to try to state the position of the Serbian Radical Party and our opinion on why you're actually refusing to tell us the real reasons for amending the Census Act. I mean, it could've gone through without this law. It's already past the deadline, and the question is when will be the list? I'd like the minister here, when he gives the final word, to make a commitment that we'll have a list by the end of May 2002, so that at least someone who's made a commitment in this country can get the consequences out of it. I think this minister would resign if he made a commitment, and he didn't do it. Namely, in the last year, since you entered the government of the Republic of Serbia, since you first entered the command of Milomir Minic, and then under Zoran Djindjic's command, relations with Montenegro have been brought to the heat and no one knows what it will look like and whether there will be an SRJ at all and no one knows whether there will be a census in SRJ anymore. That's where they actually break the spear. You do not know whether Montenegro will organise a census under federal law, whether Montenegro will accept the forms prescribed by the federal law. You don't even know if Vojvodina's gonna do it. You have so warmed up the separatist aspirations in Vojvodina that the President of the Vojvodina Assembly, whom you have appointed, dares to swear to Serbia's mother, spit on a board that says Serbia, and that there are no consequences out of it, and that the parliamentary majority in the Vojvodina Assembly has not asked whether any of you should submit a proposal to replace such a president of the Assembly, the one that is arguing with Serbia whose organic part we are. None of you would be able to say whether there will be Serbs in the census forms in Montenegro, whether there will be Montenegrins in Serbia. None of you dare say that Serbia will carry out a census in Kosovo and Metohija. I repeat, you've accepted the formulation of the law that was in force until today. The provision of Article 15 remains that the census will not be made in the territory that is under occupation, in Kosovo and Metohija, but at the same time, you have forced all Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija to register as voters with Hans Hekerup. Instead of handing over all the information about the Serb voters and non-Albanians to the voters you have (because all the documentation is timely from Kosovo and Metohija) in writing to Hans Hekerup, if you want to cooperate, you are further humiliating our poor people from Kosovo and Metohija to stand in front of a black man to get that picture of the Anfas and the profile, to enter it into computer documentation and to now be able to look at the photos and watch, whoever seems a little more free to be declared a war criminal. Of course, for the list of the people of the Shipar, you don't need a list, it has an SPS. They voted for Milutinovic, even in those villages that the police couldn't get into. I think those lists are credible, especially from those boxes that were filled at six o'clock in the morning. We must remind you - the deadline for the census that was passed legally is just because the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not respect the law. She didn't respect him because he was brought in another time, and you have this manner of not admitting anything that was before you, not the Parliament, not the laws, not the government making before you. With you came about, Serbia's history. We've tried amendments to point you to the reality that awaits us with you. The government was supposed to propose to us immediately in 2003 and perhaps in 2004 for the census. Except for the Justice Committee in Serbia, nothing works anymore. Just the Justice Committee is combing the lists of inappropriate judges, prosecutors, the president of the courts, and he's never had enough. You just think - they changed everything they had to change in Serbia, and they find some court in Cibukovec, and they don't like the judge or the prosecutor either. If there is seriousness in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then we will be fed up with these serious bill proposals that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has always promised us, as well as the President of the National Assembly, which ended last session in words - and, now in committees, the Members of the People's Parliament. It's like he said in a tow truck, because there's nothing to do on the boards, there's no serious bill. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not contain any draft laws submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's the basis of all our conflicts. Instead of forcing your government to work and to cover the Assembly with bill proposals, to be convinced that you want to carry out reforms, you are hitting on MPs in the Assembly and reducing the time for debate, all expecting a series of legislative proposals prepared by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There is no stream, nor will there be, nor anyone to produce it. The government of the Republic of Serbia in this meeting -- it would be even more honorable to propose to the president of the Republic of Serbia to disband the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, perhaps we are too disturbing for you and perhaps you will win alone, may be 250 from the DOS, and I consider that as a crazy and empty wish. Your conflicts are so great that only attacks by the Serbian Radical Party still keep you together. We will continue to attack you, it's our job in this assembly, and take a little street, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, listen to what the people think of you and your reforms and about you delivering these laws to us, historicalally I would say. You could say that even in 41 years, the list won't be made because it hasn't been completed. We stand by to vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13149	Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Ivkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law that itself is true, but at the wrong time. We are considering the law in October which we say that in the last period, in the first part of April 2001, we will not execute the census, and we will not execute it until next year. At the same time, the legislator acknowledges that, forming the government's budget of the Republic of Serbia, he singled out only 200m dinars, and that is why he could not be held in October, the census concluded in April, as there was not enough funding. Simply, it is reportedly all in line with the federal government and the federal parliament's decision. There is now only one information and one activity that would be of paramount importance to the Republic of Serbia, and to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The SPS parliamentary group sent a request to all parliamentary groups in this parliament in early September to support our proposal to hold an extraordinary session of the republic's parliament on the basis of the Hekerup Constitution and a census of voters in Kosovo and Metohija. The essence of our request was just on the list. We also believe that here I am taking the opportunity to suggest to the Government of the Republic of Serbia that this country is neither Burundi nor this is Budjumbura, this is a serious state that has always had land books, which had birth certificates, which had ownership papers. For your information, all of this has been taken out of Kosovo and Metohija, except Prizren and the works of Peći, and this documentation is found in the Cave Patriarchy. One serious state would not allow its leading leaders to violate this assembly's decision, and this assembly said in two sessions in May -- not the Hekerup Constitution, it called on the international plan to seek strict application of Article 9. Resolution 1244. We have requested that a census be carried out, namely the citizens of Serbia from Kosovo and Metohija, with the presence of all international organisations. The valid list, with the accession of the complete documentation - ownership papers, land books, birth certificates copies, journals (and a series of journals) and indexes, could all have been a valid document for negotiations to define the guarantees of the United Nations for a limited period of time and for the return of those who are written as citizens of Serbia from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. It could then be negotiated, then a deadline could be set for a return, then perhaps a guarantee of the United Nations could be provided, or a guarantee from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia that their homes, schools, jobs would be built. Then you could have cheeks and tell them to register, and this is the way the Hekerup Constitution is registered, and now they'll probably be called to the elections and the only light variant is the variant of Mr. Hackerup, who can now declare the state he imagined in his head on 17 November. The only chance is for the government of the Republic of Serbia to come up with a decision on the census, citizens of Serbia from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, to engage in Krusevec all those where there is documentation - land books, derived from the birth certificate, primary and secondary school journals, college indices - and to enter into negotiations with the United Nations and require a limited deadline, along with this documentation, the return of all refugees and exiled Serbs to Article 9. Resolution 1244, where the United Nations is obliged to provide public order and peace in Kosovo and Metohija and secure return of Serbian citizens to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Instead, we had a list of slogans to see how many of us there are, or to see how many voters are over 18 years old, and basically the recognition of Hekerup's constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13151	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I'll conclude the original search. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the implementation of the census, households and dwellings in 2001 in the Republic of Serbia, in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 141, against 52, the abstentions were not, were not voted by six, a total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since we are running out of time for today's session, I would suggest that we make the following decision: given that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not yet delivered answers to the amendments, which have been sent to the National Assembly, that we continue the session on Wednesday or as you say, so we can proceed and decide without the Government's opinion. We can, if the National Assembly says so, but the fact is, therefore, it's certainly not about that, it's about the fact that by Thursday... Please be heard, by Thursday night they were delivered -- there are about a thousand amendments to all 12 or 13 legislative proposals. The amendments were sent to the government of the Republic of Serbia on Friday, so on our side on time, and the government had a session today, it is a huge number of amendments and they are not.... What's going on with you people? My proposal is to continue our work on Wednesday at 10 o'clock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it is clear what this is about, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia wants to avoid tomorrow's strike by Serbian workers, scheduled in front of this parliament at 12 o'clock, and only now is it sought and insisted on something that has not been insisted so far, i.e. the most important procedural errors, direct violations of the law, direct violations of the Constitution and such exceptions have not been made so far. If the only reason you're afraid of unions is because you're afraid of Serbian workers, then that's clearly to say it, not to look for other reasons to justify running from people, from representatives of your own people, from your own workers, and to say that we will continue on Wednesday because no one from all over Serbia can bring workers two, three or five times. Here we had examples of being completely unconstitutional, in an illegal way...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13153	Please, do you have any suggestions?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13154	I'm talking about a proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13155	Mr. Wolf, I warn you, you abuse a pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13156	And don't warn me, did you take my money again? Yes, it is. I'm telling you right now, I have a son, I have a pregnant wife, I'm gonna charge you for this retroactively, triple, I guarantee you. Now, as far as that goes, just because you're afraid of workers, you can't schedule tomorrow, and my suggestion is that tomorrow we do the most normal thing, as planned. We don't mind workers, we don't mind anyone from Serbia, we've never run for the rat's and the rear exits, but we'll show up there, so to whom the workers say. Well, that's my suggestion, so remember this money you took from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13157	There's a People's MP, Mr. Dragan the Martian. [[right on line]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13158	That we have something nice, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we understand. As president of the National Assembly, according to the Rules of Procedure, which was unchanged in that part, at the time you wrote it, I was obliged - when too many arrived, very large, because over a thousand amendments arrived Thursday night, Friday morning - to postpone the beginning of this session, so that the amendments could also be processed by the committees of the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's about 1,000 amendments. I didn't do it. Before that, I had a meeting with the union presidents, and independence and presidents of the Independent Union, we had a very correct conversation, and what I said in that conversation, that's what I've been saying for ten years, and all of my colleagues sitting here know it's that no one can prevent anyone from political freedoms, in union freedoms, in all the freedoms that every citizen of this country belongs to. And it's just like that. No one is afraid of anyone who is allowed by law in any way, and these are the strikes, so are the protests, expressing his dissatisfaction. So, you can say whatever you want, it's simple, it's false. It is simply that I propose to the MPs that, if they think that without the Government's opinion, which has not delivered an opinion on the amendments it has about 1,000, it can decide without it. You jumped and you said no. Now you're yelling - yes. Make up your mind once, Mr. Wolfie, what exactly do you think? You were here presenting five different proposals, making a circus out of this pay phone, so Mr. Jojic said the early adoption of the census law was premature, and then others said it was too late to pass a census law. Well, you don't even know what you're talking about here at this pay phone. Also, decide whether without an amendment or without the government's stance, or not without the government's position? That's for you to decide. So, I'm telling you -- it's about 1,000 amendments coming in, that they need to be processed, that the National Assembly can decide without the Government's opinion, but that the decision is made by the National Assembly. It is in the Rules of Procedure, and I insist, as it stands in the Rules of Procedure, that the National Assembly be declared [[Alexander Vukic seeks the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13159	You don't have the right to a replica. You're the one who caused the replica. [[Petar Jojic seeks the right to reply.]] I'm telling Mr. Jojic what's wrong with you. (Tomislav Nikolic gestures, from place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13160	Mr. Nikolic, I give you a warning. (Alexander Vukic, from the place: 'Because you didn't give yourself a warning, you'll pay back all that money.' ) There is a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13161	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was just talking about the lack of detailed preparations, because after a year there was plenty of time to edit all necessary records. I was talking about the need to prepare for the basic books, in relation to the cadastrian and land books, and also to arrange the records on the residence of citizens. That's why I said the conditions had to be created before and then joined. However, it is late in that part of the year and I remain with my claim that the conditions have not been met in relation to the preparations that should have been detailed, precise and clear, so that one significant job can be done to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13162	Before we proceed with the proposal, so that we will not be able to discuss the Rules of Procedure afterwards, I ask you to make a decision to extend the work of today's session of the Assembly until further notice. Please make your point. For 127, against 16, the abstention of three, was not voted 48, a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that we will work today until we resolve the issue of continuing this session. He has the word Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13163	No matter what reasons were motivated by the president of the National Assembly to work today, and only on Wednesday to continue, although he knew that the amendments had been delivered and that the government had not delivered an opinion on the amendments, knowing that you would now vote on the proposal to continue on Wednesday, I suggest that tomorrow, as guests come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we be the real hosts, to form a delegation here, which will welcome the workers who are coming, so let each parliamentary group set one by one. It may also be in the power of the parliamentary groups, so you from DOS determine 5-6, but it really doesn't make sense that, on the one hand, the strike organizers and the strike participants are threatened to be punished by prison for up to three years, that this is being published by the newspaper on the first pages, that it is said by Bosko Buha (I don't know if you know what kind of function it performs), and that you here, for this speaker, say that you have all advocated in your time that everyone can freely speak your opinion. You did advocate the time when you were in opposition, and now you turn the turkey upside down and threaten union representatives, and even threaten those who have entered the government of the Republic of Serbia through unions and related ties with the Prime Minister, even the MPs, who have entered the parliamentary benches through the union. So please, look, we're going to determine one member of the SRS board, and I'm asking you to identify your most respected people, by whom DOS is recognizable, by which the SPS is recognizable, to wait for those people outside the National Assembly building, to introduce them to coffee and juice, to apologize for the government's failure to look at the amendments and to talk to them, to see what's bothering them about the labour law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13164	I think this is quite an acceptable proposal and I urge the presidents of the parliamentary groups to meet at 9:00 tomorrow in my office and to speak with the union representatives, if they so wish. Well, go ahead, be if you want. It will be your first chance to co-operate with other colleagues, the presidents of the parliamentary groups. He has the word Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13165	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, unfortunately, only the SPS parliamentary group submitted a request at the beginning of this session to withdraw the labour law from the agenda. He's the subject of this conversation. I want to say that the set of votes that were in favour of not considering the labour law, and those who were abstaining, was quite enough not to have a labour law on the agenda. Those who have been restrained may think about it, but no Serbian citizen will be able to explain why we are not in session tomorrow. It will be clear to everyone that tomorrow we are not ambushed because we do not want to meet with those who are and how they feel threatened by the draft labour law. In particular, if it is known that the second item of the agenda is the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes, where it is clear that there is not even the support of the Assembly Committee and where taxes are raised four to ten times - a law that most likely cannot go through in principle. And most importantly, from the third to the seventh, the eighth points of the agenda are the proposals of our colleague Michael's law, which the government of the Republic of Serbia has already said did not accept, does not support and does not want to consider. Therefore, we are about to work tomorrow, to consider the principle of these legal projects, and only if we adopt them in principle, then the Government of the Republic of Serbia can consider amendments to these legal projects submitted by counterpart Michael. I suggest we work tomorrow at 10.00. I accept that as president of the parliamentary group, I will be at 9:00 a.m. with the President of the Assembly and that we speak openly with those whose labour law essentially deprives me of my right to work and personal freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13166	He has the word National MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13167	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, without much need, is being produced by a crisis in the work of Parliament. We need a labour law. It's a system law. We need an answer from the government, so that we as MPs can do what our job is, and seriously and argued to talk about it. Unfortunately, it's hard to get around the fact that today's labour rights fighters actually speak very differently from what they would like to be presented. This is not a chance for such controversy. It is acceptable for us to talk to all who want to talk to us tomorrow as we have done so far. But it is not acceptable to give in under any kind of pressure and allow ourselves to make mistakes in such an important segment of our parliamentary work, as is the one concerning the issues in the field of labour legislation. We won't give in to that kind of pressure. On the contrary, we will talk from member to member, seeking to provide support for the law, which this Serbia must change. And those who flock to meet the workers today may consider all that they have done in the past 10 years. Then they turned their head aside from a million and a half unemployed and 40,000 companies that remained in bankruptcy. We're always ready to look into our citizens' eyes, but we're not ready to tell the truth, no matter how hard it is to tell the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-22-0.u13168	We have two proposals, with the first proposal accepted by itself, that is Mr. Ivkovic's proposal if the motion to continue the session on Wednesday is not accepted and we have a proposal that is not decided on, Mr. Nikolic, to form a team tomorrow, I suggest that it still be 10.00 hours... You will or will not, you can, based on the fact that your proposal has been accepted from that proposal to step forward. It's your right. I suggest that the presidents of all parliamentary groups at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia meet tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. in my office and that, if the representatives of the union wish to do so, we should receive them and discuss them, as well as the vice-presidents of the National Assembly, so that we can be in one representative composition if we decide not to work tomorrow. I'm putting the motion to continue the session at 10.00 p.m. on Wednesday. I ask the People's Messengers to declare it. For 135, against 57, two were abstentions, not 8. A total of 202 MPs. I understand that we have adopted a motion to continue the session at 10.00 p.m. on Wednesday. One more announcement. The session of the Labour Committee will be held on Wednesday at 1800 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that according to official records, 165 MPs attend today's session. Please confirm the quorum. I find there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Višnja Nežić, Milos Lukić, Stanko Kovacevic, Radomir Naumov, Slavoljub Matić, Dragan Jočić, Dusan Golubović, Zoran Boskovic, Vladan Jovičić, Mihajlo Marković, Biaci Anton and Milena Milosevic. In the morning, Anita Beretic and Milorad Stanulov are absent. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. I would like to inform you that yesterday, a meeting of the leadership of the National Assembly and the president of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with representatives of the unions was held, that an agreement has been made with representatives of the unions, which is to be held with representatives of the unions, and that there are special meetings of representatives of the parliamentary groups with representatives of the unions and the next schedule has been set up with consultations with representatives of the parliamentary groups: from 10.00 to 12.00 hours with representatives of the unions will be discussed with representatives of the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia; from 12.30 to 14.30 hours representatives of the DOS-Dr Vojislav Kostunica - DSS, DOS-New Serbia and DOS-Dojislav Kostunica - Movement for Democratic Serbia; from 15.30 to 17.30 representatives of the parliamentary group of the SPS Group and from 18.00 hours representatives of the SJ. With the DOS parliamentary group and the DOS parliamentary group -- Vojvodina Reformists and the Sandzak Democratic Party will also attend the meeting. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PURPOSE OF THE PURPOSE OF THE PURPOSE OF THE PURPOSES, DOCUMENTS AND ACCOUNTS IN 2001. THE YEAR IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (specificities) We are moving to continue our work on the first item of the agenda. We passed the bill in principle. Since the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not delivered an opinion on the amendments submitted to the draft law, I remind you that, under Article 136(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly, may decide to consider the bill without the Government’s opinion or to set a new deadline within which it is required to do so. I propose that the National Assembly decide that the bill should be considered without the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. I am voting on a proposal for the National Assembly to consider the draft law without the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. For 110, against 125, the two abstentions, were not voted 36, a total of 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided to consider the draft law without the government's opinion on the amendments submitted. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic appeared.
