ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16026	Dear colleagues, Mr. President, I would just like to say a few principle words about the draft budget we have ahead of us. I think we all understand -- the basic dilemma of whether to vote in favour of the budget or to vote against the budget, means to vote in favour of stability or to vote against stability. What DOS won last year in the elections, I dare say, was the trust of the people, figuratively speaking, the people voted for something that would say "white light". Of the different colors that we normally have in the spectrum, the people chose this positive blend, that white light in which we are all together and no one is single. Of course, the people voted for what they thought we were all together, deciding in a symbolic way, whether, our flags, we could do better and more for his own good. If we understand this budget as a function of these political intentions, then actually serious dilemmas about whether or not we should vote for it, there is no. The fact that we are now in a political situation to re-expose this white light to the length of the colour spectrum and then say that one of these colors is stronger and more important, and that all the other colors in that spectrum are more parallel, less important, that they are marginal, is the attempt we have today on the political scene, but I don't think it's correct for the citizens or for the coalition partners. Therefore, if one of the parties wants to make that kind of distance, then the only thing on the political scene would have to be clearer and better and otherwise formulated. Permanent destabilisation, whose witnesses we are in one way or another, through the Assembly or through events on a political scene, leads us back to the situation of asking ourselves a question, whether we are for the government that we all chose together or not for the government. When one of these colors, and I will then speak very specifically, this applies to Article 5, withdraws from the spectrum of the political who came to power, leads to the situation of another on the political scene to set new conditions, to further destabilise the situation. Therefore, this refers specifically to Article 5, to the situation around Vojvodina. The basic question, say those who are autonomous persuasions, and I am nothing less autonomous than them, is our money. With this Article 5th and that law that we have received, which has left us the Duke's Assembly, our money will not be with us again. It won't be with those who make our money, and that means citizens who specifically in municipalities and settlements allocate funds to the budget. Therefore, it is very serious, and I mean good, an opportunity to think carefully, that, when adopting a new law on local self-government, it is possible for the authorities of local self-government to have the original right to raise funds from the budget, to stop and think with this whole issue of Vojvodina, of course, to define relations in the republic itself. Why? Because Yugoslavia is in a strange situation, that events with Montenegro have not ended yet, and that within the republic itself we do not know how many regions it should possibly be. If we are in this way strengthening the autonomous functions of one part of the Republic, it will be with a relatively large number of inhabitants and with great economic strength we will get one obvious disproportionate to the possibilities and needs. So I think that this Article 5 here is quite well defined and that in fact the whole story about who is blackmailing us should end up in one way that would be much better, much more painless, and that is the adoption of a real law on local self-government, where these issues can possibly be marginalized. I would also like to say that those who are in favour of this degree of autonomy that they advocate, and who are constantly radicalising the situation, can only actually maintain the radicalisation of the situation, because when they give up this political programme, then they can enroll in any of the other parties that exist in Serbia; they constantly advocate one trend of crisis and destabilisation. Of course, it's bad when that story is about minorities. It is said that it is necessary because minorities want that kind of autonomy, and I think that, of course, it is not true, because minorities in that situation will not get anything. The money will go from Belgrade to Novi Sad and yet another ethnic majority is in the Vojvodina, and the minority will not again be the subject of political decision-making, but will be the object of political decision-making, yet they will not be able to demonstrate their collective rights and their political subjectivity. That's where we actually do this, by referring to minorities, through this kind of autonomy we solve nothing. It is therefore good that this Article 5 is scheduled to be redefine in an upcoming rebalancing, when discussions on what it is and how it is necessary to bring them to an end. I'd like to say a few more very specific words. Looking at the overall budget, I think the Ministry of Agriculture has made the best argument and a detailed picture of the items for which the funds from its budget will be spent. Right, you can explicitly see what's meant for agricultural regressions. It would be a little more suggestions; since they said that for the first time a certain amount of fruit growing and wine growing could have been done for both nuts and pots, because they are also quite deficitous, as well as for breeding cattle. Seven or eight years ago, I had such an amendment. I don't see a regress for goats and goats. It's very important, because a few years ago we passed a law where these animals are not pests but alternatives and perspectives in agriculture. Their cultivation should also be stimulated in this way by the introduction of better races. In the end, something about the Ministry of Science. I gave an amendment with the intention of making its items easier verifiable and visible, where there is a law on the Matica Serbian and one law on the Serbian Academy of Sciences. I suggested that the total amount, which is otherwise planned by these ministries, should be stated by the two institutions, which have their own specific laws, and the other institutions do not have - none of the universities, the law on the University of Novi Sad or the law on the University of Belgrade, but there is in general the Law on the University and the Law on Cultural Goods - that these two items be shown in the way they deserve it. It should not be said that Matica is the Serbian oldest cultural institution near Serbs, with a magazine that has been on its way out for 175 years. Other countries, if they had such institutions, would place a special budget item to see because it is a legal obligation. We from the area have two backs of specialists, the Law on SAN and the Law on the Serbian Matica. The budget should also be maintained by those structures, which is otherwise the obligation of the Republic, to finance these institutions from the budget. So my amendment goes that way. I hope that it may be possible for the Committee on Science or the Committee on Finance to do so, so I would also be willing to withdraw that amendment, to plan as much funds as the ministries have otherwise planned for the separation of these institutions, but it is not seen from the total amount shown, and these two institutions deserve it, so I would ask the ministers to be inclined to accept such suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16027	The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16028	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, honourable Prime Minister and members of the government, has been known to require a lot of skill to make a budget. It should meet the basic needs of public consumption users without excessively burdening the economy and citizens. It is also known that the budget is not easy to bring to countries with stable and developed economies. There is almost no more important issue in parliament that is being discussed than the budgetary issue. Is our Government’s issue of budgeting in the Assembly giving such importance? It's obvious he's not giving it away. This is best told by the fact that we MPs have been informed at home on December 19th that we can take over materials in the Serbian Parliament, and that this issue is on the agenda of the Republic Assembly on December 20th, starting at 10.00 p.m. Not to say that it serves as a bad example for the municipalities, because in that case, they can deliver the material and hold the Assembly, adopt the budget on that same day. The basic material without subsequent supplements has 99 pages. How, then, is it possible for a incomplete day to study material, consult on the ground, prepare for discussion and submit amendments? It is known that only changes can be made on the basis of amendments, because different laws cannot be changed, regardless of what kind of debate is being held in principle. Lastly, it is clear that the government wants to avoid a proper debate on the budget. Given that DOS MPs are almost not taking part in the debate and are not submitting amendments, it is obvious that the government wants to prevent the SPS MPs and MPs of other opposition parties from pointing out certain shortcomings in the draft law and to submit amendments, whose eventual acceptance of certain things would have been made in the proposal. If we take into account that we have been imposed by the Rules of Procedure, which counter-constitutionally prevents the MP from submitting an amendment to each member of the bill, then we can see how much parliamentary debate turns into a farce. The best example is Article 9. A bill of this law. The total budget of 219 billion dinars shall be allocated to these members and sorted for closer purposes. That article has 27 pages. Only one amendment can be submitted to this article, and that is the entire parliamentary group. Where is the right of MPs to submit proposals relating to the specificities of certain areas, landscapes or activities? However, no matter what is said, I would still like to point out in this principle debate some questions and ask my fellow Members, the President and the members of the Government, to accept certain proposals and suggestions when considering the law in particular, and to provide funds in a larger amount for certain purposes. I will try not to repeat what has already been said, and I will point out specifically: First, within the Ministry of Finance and Economy, the amount foreseen for the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia of only one billion dinars is extremely insufficient. If we want to recover the economy, it is necessary to provide more resources for this purpose. Given that funds are also provided for regional development from this fund, it is further seen how few funds are provided for this purpose. It is known that, according to current regulations, Serbia, without Kosovo and Metohija, there are 37 municipalities that are economically underdeveloped. These municipalities are located in hill-mounted areas, are away from developed business centres, are borderline or in Raško-Polim area, with a mixed national composition of the population. These municipalities, instead of approaching Serbia's average development by development, are increasingly lagging behind and the gap is increasing. I also remind the Serbian Constitution here, where it is said that balanced regional development will be taken into account and that underdeveloped areas will be encouraged. The main amount of incentives for the development of these economically underdeveloped municipalities is provided through the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. For these reasons, it is necessary to increase the allocation of funds to this fund, at least to two billion instead of one billion, as proposed by the government. Secondly, it is surprising how little is said about increasing industrial and agricultural production. The standard of living will not improve on the basis of social programmes. This will only be achieved through greater economic growth and the creation of new jobs. It's like there's some information that our economy is in recession. The other day, here in the Assembly, Minister Djelic said that the state of production in this year was zero compared to last year, i.e. the same volume of production, no decline and no growth. However, if we take into account the industrial processing of agricultural products, which is higher due to the birth year, then the situation is quite different. In fact, there's a huge drop in industrial production. We see that factories don't work or work with tens of thousands of capacities. If the situation in production does not change, there is nothing from reform nor economic or political stability -- how to justify the decline in production compared to the situation when the Socialists were in power, and there were economic sanctions and there were NATO bombings and destruction. Insufficient customs protection of domestic production and the necessity of providing funds to stimulate exports is a special story. That's what the other SPS MPs will talk about. I am going back to concrete proposals, where changes in the amount of funds needed for individual purposes should be made in relation to the government's proposals. In the framework of the Ministry of Science, Technology and Development, for education and training of research personnel, I think it is necessary to provide more resources. Starting with the fact that education is the most powerful driver of one country's development, then it is really necessary to pay particular attention to education and the improvement of scientific research personnel. In view of the above, we need to provide more resources to our scientists to perfect scientific research. In the first sense, for this purpose, at least 50 million should be provided instead of 35, as proposed by the government. In the framework of the Ministry of Education and Sports, more funds should be provided for the position - Costs of accommodation of students. We all know that education is the most important investment that a society invests in its future. The assistance provided in the budget for the accommodation and feeding of students is in direct function of investment in the educated future. I would like to remind you that the prices of accommodation and nutrition in the dormitory on May 1st of this year have increased by over three times. It also announced an increase since January of this year, not to mention the amount of tuition and other expenditure related to schooling of children on the side. Where children of parents will be found in poor companies or other institutions and children of families from the village. Let's not let ourselves get into a situation where children can only be educated by wealthy parents. The SPS has given this much more attention as a social justice party. I therefore propose that, or socialists suggest that at least one billion and 300 million people instead of one billion and 47 million are provided in the budget for housing and feeding students, as proposed by the government. Further, donations to religious communities should be increased within the Ministry of Faith. Because of the introduction of religion into religious schools, religious communities have significantly increased needs for funds. That is why the grant should provide them with at least a hundred million instead of 54, as proposed by the government. Finally, I would like to point out that there is little to talk about the need to reduce the participation of public consumption in the gross social product. The issue of strengthening budgetary and financial discipline is not affirmed enough. It is necessary to strengthen the education of the population on the necessity of paying taxes and other prescribed obligations; to point out how much it is a moral issue for citizens and how it is viewed in the world; to influence the way in which the grey economy is reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16029	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dusan Ilic, and the next is Zivko Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16030	The fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, Mr. Prime Minister, is not good for one government when the finance minister begins his presentation with apologies - why the draft budget was late. I find his arguments acceptable. Of course, the draft law on local self-government, which had just entered the procedure, was to be voted upon; and the draft law on the Vojvodina Assembly was to be passed. However, it is something that is not good, I think the Prime Minister should seriously consider and better coordinate the work of his ministries. But that's the way. At first, I would like to say that in this draft budget there is a methodology for which the budget is arranged. However, we, by budgetary law, must also make the methodology official. It's not good, and it's led us to an awkward situation that we haven't been able to combine the previous methodology of the budget and this one, so in this short time we've found ourselves in one extortion; and in addition, when we add to that the final budget for 2000, which was also not before us, then we're in an awkward situation. I'd like to resent the budget, and that's what we finally said to the Finance Committee, the way in which the deficits are financed and the question of the current budget reserve, as well as some items in the budget that we agreed on. As for funding the budget deficit, we can see in the explanation that this will be financed, these 38 billion, 9.1 billion donations, revenue that we will achieve through the privatisation of 10.8 billion and loans from the NBJ and the business banks. In that direction, we have also given certain amendments to Article 3. Unfortunately, they did not come across an understanding of the legislator. I hope that the Assembly will have understanding in this direction, and I would ask as a question and something that brings us into an awkward situation, which is financing part of the budget that is intended for social issues. Mr. Prime Minister said it was about 30%. If that 30% of the budget goes to social donations, and that's on the other side about donations, which we also see, we'll meet in a new awkward situation. On the one hand, funding these social problems will lead us to a dependent position, especially by the international community, since the UN tribunal's draft law did not go through an emergency procedure in this parliament; on the other hand, we are in a situation that this funding of the budget deficit by the NBJ and the business banks can lead to increased inflation flows. So that's one situation where the government found itself. I hope you'll have the strength to overcome it, but it's really something that can get us into an awkward situation. When it comes to funding deficits by privatisation, it is very difficult to expect privatisation to run in this part next year. That optimism of yours of 10.8 billion won't be able to hold water in the next period. Privatisation goes slowly, and ultimately the issue of restitution, i.e. the return of property to the original owners, is also raised. As far as the current budget reserve is concerned, in our opinion it's a pretty large part, a percentage of what's in the budget. We believe that it should, and some amendments, even by the Democratic Party MPs, have gone to this, to shift some of that budget reserve to precisely defined items in the budget. This thing that we have proposed to our amendments, especially in the area of health and funding of the Refugee Commissioner. It's something I want to draw your attention to. As for budget financing, I think you could pay attention to some more details. I'll remind you only of your statement that next year we'll cut the administration by 10%. However, by introducing agencies established by the government regulation, we are practically introducing a new administration. It's something that cuts your statement. Our amendments are heading towards eradicating those agencies, or items, from this draft budget law. I will also remind you that our pre-election promise either that we will finance social problems by selling a number of assets owned by the Serbian government, especially these representative facilities, for which funding in the budget has been allocated around 526 million. These are representative facilities, it is Užička 40, Užička 16, Užička 38, Tolstoyjeva 50, Botićeva 8, then in Vrnjačka Banja, in Vorovo, on Oplenac, Užička 23 and Užička 25, as well as the restoration of the villa Zlatni breg and additional reconstructions in Botic Street. My suggestion, for that matter, is to pay attention, however, to keep that pre-election promise in the future. Speaking of increasing the administration that I was talking about in this section about agencies, I would like to draw your attention and ask you a question, Mr. Prime Minister (I would ask you to listen to me, since this is very important for me) to answer me: how are the offices "Contact Serbia" funded, since I did not find them in the budget in any item, and they are practically pandan to the districts, which have their own items in the budget. Since there are now 168 million and 466 thousand in the districts, I would ask you to answer me how "Contact Serbia" is financed. What? So it's an NGO. This is something that is very important, because according to the billboards around the city, we see that direct contact with the government can be achieved through an NGO called "Contact Serbia". That's something I found interesting. It is, in short, some of my remarks and I hope that you will adopt our amendments, and some of them have the support of the board, so I don't see any reason why the government won't support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16031	The word has a folk MP, Zivko Selakovic, and the next one is Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16032	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the Government, gentlemen of the Ministers, MPs are very rarely given the opportunity to greet you, and therefore with special satisfaction I am doing so now. In my presentation, I would refer to the procedure itself and the way this session was scheduled, because the material was late received, it is a very short period so that we could constructively consider it and give amendments, because the SSJ parliamentary group is constructively working and submitting amendments, we seek to participate in the improvement of every law, not just to give amendments for amendments. Therefore, the procedure, the way and the procedure itself began from the very appointment of this session of the Assembly and the budget agenda for 2002 did not run in normal and normal order. It's obvious that it was going to be quick, anyway, just to adopt the budget and it's actually, in my opinion, and the essence of it all. As I said, in order to constructively consider the bill, it took time, not to repeat, for the very way this session was scheduled by the Assembly Group of the SSJ to be done in haste so that the simple session would not be held on December 24th and 25th, and you know well what was then, which was the holiday, and that the session was held on the second day of St Nicholas, or on the third day; the SSJ Group felt that it was not good and we were not on Thursday, on the second day of St Nicholas, attended and participated in the work of the session. It's only for that principled reason, and not, as rumors circulate, that we wanted to boycott the budget, and that's certainly not true; because the next day we came to participate in the work. As far as I could look at the material, or budget, I would refer only to this division of the 9th that speaks of agriculture. For agriculture, forestry and water industry, a little less than eight billion dinars were allocated, and that sounds, with an increase of 60%, very well, given that the 2001 budget was 5,100,000 dinars. That is not true, the people need to know that some other four billion dinar funds have been provided, and that has arrived later as a donation or an extraordinary income, and this total amounted to something like nine billion dinars. This figure looks a little bit too big, but in practice it has been proven and seen that it was not enough, which means that this eight billion-billion-dollar item that is now predicted and far from now cannot meet the needs of the Ministry of Agriculture's resolution. I also add that a premium for the payment of sugar beet, i.e. for the collection of sugar tails of around 680 million. I must remind here that the bigger problem is why sugar tail is not paid back to the Pomorava County and other parts of our Serbia. It is therefore necessary to provide the funds to pay off the old debt, and this proposal does not show where the funds would be provided. It's my remark that the agrarian budget has been abolished this time. I believe that the agrarian budget was an integral part of the budget and that the agrarian budget was much better able to show and display table costs, i.e. revenues for the development of agriculture in general. I think this is a big mistake and the future agrarian budget must exist as a separate budget that follows and goes within this budget. I would take advantage of the presence of Prime Minister Djindjic since we've known each other a little while longer, so I would be free to ask him two questions in the O.R. He said that last year's salary was about 80 marks, and now it's about 230 marks. I don't think all the workers have these 230 marks either. For workers, or citizens, Serbian citizens, what is more important is what can be bought for these 230 marks compared to those 80 marks. All I know is that I was paying for electricity and I could heat up on electricity, so when I get the bill of 1,000 dinars, it was too high a price, and now the bills come at 15,000 to 20,000 dinars and the man hates himself again. So that difference in money is not an indication that now it's something improved. I would especially like to ask the prime minister, again in a joke, that the consumer basket in October last year needed three salaries, and that now needs 1.9 means two salaries. Now I'm asking, when I just compared this to what can be bought by 230 or earlier 80 marks, are those baskets now reduced, so they're cheaper? I would say something in particular (and I can see that it is already running out of time foreseen for our parliamentary group), and it may not be detailed for the budget, for closure, in our opinion, and for the rentable banks. Couldn't these banks have been used to develop agriculture precisely, to direct them to perhaps some kind of agricultural loans, or farmers. I think we should think about this and maybe not make this kind of decision. Finally, I would like to say that the Assembly Group will not vote for this budget, not because it simply will not, but, as I have said, we think that in this budget (although it is large in relation to the past budget, i.e. now in force) it is not well allocated to ministry portfolios, etc. So, to underline, we're not going to vote for this budget, given that we couldn't even consider it and give, as I said at first, some amendments that might improve the text of this budget itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16033	The People's MP Marijan Risticevic has the word, followed by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16034	In order to work more efficiently, I give up the discussion and the same applies to Mr. Sredo Mihajlov. I have the authority of him to withdraw the discussion in his name.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16035	The word has a folk MP Dragan Ciolic, and the following is the registered MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, I will not say anything in a joke, but rather seriously what I think. Prime Minister Djindjic's exposure only strengthened my mistrust in all that the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. Serbian citizens are deceived, pre-election promises are not fulfilled, and the promised foreign aid will be nothing. What can we expect next year? There will be layoffs of workers, and, as Zoran Djindjic said, there are about 800,000 people working in non-proliferation companies. All budget users must understand the situation we are in, said Zoran Djindjic. All Serbian citizens are already experiencing the consequences of the government's failed performance, led by Zoran Djindjic. What reforms did the government implement to call it reform? You'll sell your friends from abroad a few cements. It's easy to sell, and what about those companies and workers that no one wants? Foreign debt payments are mentioned. You DOS gentlemen are responsible for paying off debts that no one has ever paid. With your coming to power, with the help of your friends from the West, the debts have become current again. You will receive foreign assistance from the worst enemies of the Serbian people, so you will use the same bloody money to pay off your debts. The people of that will have nothing. He'll have hunger, misery, poverty, layoffs. For anyone could expect something from the government in which Zoran Djindjic, Jožef Kasa, Vladan Batic, Zarko Korac, are in. Also missing, Javier Solana and the film can begin another story about the betrayal and destruction of the Serb people. It's election time, because we're expected to be transparent in 2002 with a lot of banners, whose messages, I hope, you'll understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16037	The word has a People's MP Milan Radulovic, and the next is the MP of the people, Mic Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16038	Dear Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable MPs, the draft budget law is, when a man reads it, basically one simple, economically speaking, an accounting file. It sets out the assumptions in which the government intends to raise money in the state register and, on the other hand, accurately prescribes how and where this money will be allocated and how it will be spent. However, the budget law is at the same time a political paper; behind each budget law is one economic logic or economic doctrine and some political idea, not to say political philosophy. The budget law is, of course, one of the most important laws one government can offer. Therefore, when it comes to the Budget Law, the ideological and social status of the proposings must be identified. Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, formed a majority coalition government of Serbia's democratic forces early this year. Serbia dates back to 2001 and enters 2002 with a minority leftist government. The fact that it's a minority leftist government doesn't have to say anything about the budget. There are other leftist governments, there are minority governments, and their budget can be good or bad. In doing so, justice should be said that behind this budget is the logic of the left center, a little left. So when I say the budget is left-wing, I don't think it's communist, but left-wing is. Let me say a few words about the very content of this political record. As you saw, the government predicted about 220 or 240 billion. The dinars he'll have next year. When it comes to the state of education in Serbia, the health system, travel and rail networks; when it comes to the social need of these people, or the poor population, this means, however high, can hardly be sufficient. These are modest means; if they come true, the Government will, in a very modest way, manage to satisfy and serve what it is obliged to care for. But the good thing about this budget, the commendable thing, is that the government predicts that this year less money than to pay back. About 21 billion interest payments are foreseen, which is foreign to domestic creditors, and loaning about 19 billion, which is from foreign banks, which is from our National Bank and business banks. It is, therefore, a positive, very positive position in this budget and I think it deserves to be highlighted. However, given that these 240 billion -- which I said could in a modest way meet social needs and what the government is obliged to age on -- will be collected by taking from the gross national product for a public consumption of 50%, perhaps some prominence more or less, but rather more than 50%, then this budget causes a man to become cold. Simply, the question arises what will be the consequences of such a broad, wide-ranging social policy? The left centre government takes care of the social status of the population, it can also be commendable. When it comes to considering the government's social policy, and on the other hand, when it comes to the state of the economy that needs to pump money into funds, then it seems to me, to a strong imbalance. The government said, in light of this law, that the economy is inciting by reducing the tax on financial transactions, so it expects that it will eventually reduce interest. That interest reduction won't be enough. If 50% is taken from the economy, the economy is dimmed, the economy can barely breathe. A social programme like this could be a strong economy, a powerful economy. But we don't have such a thing. We have an economy that has caved in, an economic system that is, without delay, in ruins. This imbalance between the economy, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the ambitious social policy run by the government, is conditioned by an earlier objective state. What causes a bit of suspicion in the government, in the minority government of the left center, is the way it tries to manage the economy. So -- this is also seen in this budget -- the government appears as someone who owns, not just the budget: it is a good part and the owner of the economy. The government is also the owner of privatisation in Serbia, the government predicts that already in the first year it will take the funds it receives from privatisation, to cover the deficit in the budget partially with funds that will be derived from the sale of the economy. I know it's the Privatisation Act. But, people, the most logical thing would be that these nine billion, which the government plans to bring into the budget from privatisation, were left to the economy, that the economy was left to try to start some production, and enter into the creation of new values. Of course, the budget deploys created values, but the budget can block the creation of new values. I'm afraid this is the budget. In addition, the Government has a custom (and this is what was inherited) to manage state and social enterprises. She appoints boards, she creates management teams. It's all, of course, inherited. But the question is, was it possible to create in social enterprises and state-owned management teams? Could the government have done one simple thing: to pass the law on incompatibility, or on conflict of interest, and to pull himself out of the economy, to encourage and narrow down the managerial and techno-manager layer, so that he would try to collapse the economy and collapse social enterprises to reconstruct. This, since the government did not do so, because it did not pass a law that freed the economy - and the economy is 60 years in the hands of political oligarchy - it has raised one suspicion in the population, and this doubt is sublime in the question: is this a reformist or restorative government? Is this government going to put economy on a whole new base or does this government want to restore the current state of economy, that it is economically, domestically and efficiently, rationally manages, but not significantly altering it in order to keep the economy strong with the government? This is the budget of a leftist government and because it has a strong spirit of etatism, the spirit of that etatism in which all power tries to concentrate in the country, instead of the state creating conditions, determines the rules for which as many systems and as many people who create values will be able to act freely, self-initiatively, that they are able to create values themselves, but that they are able to reproduce themselves managerial, bureaucratic and technocratic layers that will be able to manage these systems. So these are some little chills that this budget wakes up. The reason is that this imbalance between the ambitious social programme and the state of the economy, as well as the fact that the government does not give sufficient evidence and enough signal that it is ready to go into the creation of a market economy environment, a liberal economy, and shows a kind of opportunism, a conformism (probably pressured by the very circumstances) that the existing situation restores and manages it "substantically" instead of changing it. This way of creating a budget and this way of managing the state creates so-called "state". Bad voters. A large layer of the population is dependent on the funds it receives from the budget, an economy that is not allowed for independence is also dependent. Poor voters are not a good guess for reforming the state. Dependent voters cannot be the bearers of democratic consciousness. The left centre's Serbian government has been pressured by the very difficult heritage and social problems it needs to address. She's limited, and on her back is a ruined economy, an economy in ruins. But the government of the left centre is also pressured by having to obtain assistance and money from abroad. It seems to me, and that's my basic grudge -- a civil, not a political grudge -- that the government has not heard enough for the democratic potential of its own people, or for the democratic initiatives that come from this people, or enough faith in our democratic tradition. It is, in fact, slowed down; it is turned to more accountants in the World Bank, the IMF, who should be "initiators" of our democratic consciousness, but to us. That, Mr. President, your government will find itself in very serious danger: to degenerate from the democratic government into the government of pseudo-enlightened absoluteism.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16039	The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16040	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, the 2002 budget of the Republic of Serbia was made on the basis of plan indicators, which do not have the basis in some criteria that should be compared to the implementation of the 2001 budget. I have to mention only a few indicators, which will say that - if the 2001 budget is planned based on a 5% increase in gross products and a 30% inflation, we have only one fact at the moment - that inflation is not 30%, but 40%, and a 5% increase in social product cannot be determined. We can determine that last year, as well as earlier years, agriculture was the basis for being and that no sufficient funds were allocated for agriculture last year, as well as in this 2002 budget. In order to determine the growth of the social gross product, we need first of all to see what the government has done in the past year on basic concepts to start the economy, to put economic capacities into operation and to make industrial production the basis of the plan. So much data we have, and we don't, and it seems to me that industrial production is minimal and is below minimum, and we'll see to it in the next few days, when it's published. The budget is planned to have an increase compared to the revenue planned in the 2002 work, which is 67%, or 180 billion dinars, compared to the deficit, which in 2001 was 21.800,000 dinars, and now 38.8 billion dinars, makes a total budget increase of 69%. That's too ambitious, because there's no confirmation in 2001. When you prove and determine that industrial production is followed by an increase in gross social product, then we can be optimistic. Instead of talking about donations, then loans to international banks, and above all those things that concern us by privatizing that we're going to affect the deficit financing, for the new 11 billion dinars, you should say, gentlemen, what has been achieved in the last year since the privatisation and whether the planned deficit of 10 billion dinars in 2001 since the privatisation is achieved, or by donors, for 11.9 billion dinars. Because we have to say quickly, I'm going to move to budget item Section 9, so that's the Agrarian budget, so it's called in 2001, and now it's part of the funds planned for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. I leave a piece of agriculture to my colleague Radovanchev, and it refers to water and forestry. The total Agrarian budget last year amounted to 5,100,000 dinars and accounted for 4% of the total expenditure part of the budget. This year it is 6,300,000 and it is not true that it amounts to 7.9 billion dinars, as it includes a billion dinars of what was not in the budget last year, from water-based services for used water energy, for gravel, sand and other water-based charges that go there. It can't be compared, then there should be other items in the budget, code, say, mining, energy, some other things, so that's it. It's not even transparent, but it's supposed to get away from there, because even in earlier years, the water industry has been collecting funds for its services, and it has invested the same resources in building its facilities. I have to say that now that this compares the participation of that agricultural part of 6.3 billion dinars is 2.86% of the total budget expenditure, which is more than 4% of the previous year, or below these frameworks. You're pushing for agriculture to be the basis in the following year, or 2002. Here's an indicator that's clean and clear, and it's about the fact that it's not like that. You in the agricultural section only kept what you planned in the subsidies for agriculture - and a colleague of Radovanchev will talk about it - almost the same level. When it comes to forestry, there are colleagues who are from forestry, and it's kept in the same part, at the same percentage, the minimum increase was. As far as the water industry is concerned, there's a disaster. Last year, 440m dinars were planned for subsidies for building objects of general importance, and for the most part for water supply. Now it's 440 million dinars, which is not enough, when experts from the water industry from various institutes here say that the budget minimum should be 3.1 billion dinars. For this reason, I believe that this part and the entire agrarian budget, and especially for the water industry, is not realistic and should be significantly higher, at a higher percentage. As for the arguments given by the Government, 440 million dinars are invested in co-financing of high water supply dams, for regional water supply systems, it is also insufficient, because we forgot the regional and highway pipeline for Mladenvac; the explanation is that out of these billions of dinars, it will be spent to protect the water system. That's what we used to do in the water industry and spend on options, but that's not enough. You put one grudge to the former regime, not only the socialist, where you belonged to the good part, and you belonged -- that no protection of water factories was achieved, and that more resources should now be allocated in that part. Not only the SPS, but also the Communist party has built first of all over the past 50 years: 3,600 km of embankment, 29 high dams with multi-purpose content, 930 km of channel network in the Danube - Tisa - Danube with 25 constitutions, then 826 km of regulatory buildings, thus protecting fertile fields and hurricanes on the surface of 1.590,000 ha. This new government needs to allocate more funds for this purpose and for the maintenance of water facilities. The SPS won't support this budget, because we don't think it's real and it's not adequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16041	The People's Messenger Sredoje Mihajlov has the word, followed by Goran Cvetanovic. You're giving up? Then, the word has the People's MP Goran Cvetanovic, and after that, MP Djordje Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the prime minister has found during the presentation that the impressive philosophy of the budget is, and it is high time that a philosophy professor from philosophy goes into action, because apparently, if we look at his exposés, we see that there were 820,000 unemployed at the time, and today he claims there are 700,000 unemployed. He claimed it was one of the most important measures in the government's economic policy, and I don't know if FAP workers, flag and bank will agree. The government's goal, he said in 2001, is that the average family can buy the entire consumer basket from its profits. Obviously, that goal has not been achieved. Budget revenues are unrealistically planned, as the government claims inflation was below 30%. Based on this, planned budget revenues should not exceed 35% compared to the 2001 budget. The budget deficit is three times higher than it was in 2001. If we look at the budget, we see that for the imaginary president of the Republic a budget of 20 million and 572 thousand dinars is planned for the position of 341 for salaries, fees and allowances for health employees - 95 million 813 thousand dinars. The prime minister promised, when the government was formed, that he would set up a ministry for environmental protection over the next six months. Now you can see in the budget, position 350, some environmental protection administration. The government has obviously not had the health ministry functioning for three months, so the SRS has been warning the public of the state of the Republic of Serbia in good time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16043	The People's Messenger George Mamula has the word, and the next is the letter of the People's Messenger, Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16044	The draft budget law is back -- the application handed over to lawmakers, so that in the first round of talks on this budget last week there was not enough time to assess and comment. As for budget revenues, they as well as all budgets are uncertain circumstances and can be planned on the basis of expectations. I think budget expenditures are real. In general, budget expenditure and budget structure are quite clear, and the budget is at first sight, optimistically planned. It's been examined and it's quite rationally imagined, but of course it's a lot of faults. First of all, the budget account is based on an overrated dinar. He's jeopardizing the remains of industry and exports. Simply put, the policy of the course is not marketable and in such a course of NBJ, a course of dinar, a state budget has been made. In part, dinars' apression, although the IMF, however late, advised moderate dinar depression to reduce problems related to the course. Under the Fund's programme, the course policy would have to be quarterlyally considered and corrected, but probably now waiting for a foreign exchange from January 1st, when the euro enters the scene. It is clear from the budget that foreign debt payments and aid to the PIO Fund have given a pretty big mark to this budget. However, I believe that the agrarian budget could be redistributed because the agrarian budget supports a quarter of the domestic economy. You, Mr. Djelic, said that Western countries stand out 10-15% of the budget for agriculture, while the share of peasants in these economies is about 2%. Given that the number of farmers, i.e. farmers, is far higher, I believe that in terms of the agrarian budget, you should have predicted greater allocations for the needs of agriculture. Why the agrarian budget isn't bigger for me at all is not clear if industrial production is falling, and we have a policy of a fixed course of dinar. The increase in the social product of this product compared to the previous year has reached 4% should be thanked to agriculture, its production and its growth of 20%, as confirmed by our well-known economic experts. Investment and liberal exports of agricultural products are essential, which we do not have. So, we have a situation that the retail price of food entering the consumer basket in Hungary is lower than in Serbia, which you have just recently learned (this retail price of food, when it comes to other neighbouring countries, such as Austria, is also smaller than here), especially since it is about 20%, which has surprised you, a team that is far greater than here in Hungary. They have over five billion foreign exchange reserves. The sales tax on food products in Hungary is lower, so you probably came up with the idea of reducing the sales tax on basic food products in this budget, which you called the survival budget. Otherwise, there are some misunderstandings in the Agrarian budget, and the question is whether we have hidden budgets within that part of the budget, let's say, when it comes to the amount of 915 million for animal health. It's bigger than this year's budget, so the question is, where does the amount of money come from when animal protection was carried out during this year? The budget contains funds for the preservation of standards, also called the social budget, but raises the issue of living standards regarding the price of gasoline, which also appears to be taken into account during these budget ranges and certain amounts distributed by distribution. This is especially important because the price of gasoline is now 45 dinars, i.e. brand and 50 pfenig in Austria, and 47 pfenig, Bulgaria Mark and 35 pfenig, Romania Mark and 17 pfenig, BiH Mark and 30 pfenig, Slovenia Mark and 60 pfenig, France, where you often stop by, brand and 80 pfenig. These are data from the Internet, and they appear in the latest number of Economists, where you gave the interview. What you said about gasoline costs more than it costs us -- it's not true. Seven days before the gas collection, Mr Goran Novakovic, the energy minister, said there will be no change in the price of the derivatives and that they will not be corrected, above all, due to the fall in oil prices. NIS earns a profit of $30 per tonne, one third of which goes for roads, social givings and rebuilding refineries. That's the published data. Novakovic also announced the cost of the derivatives. However, this was not the case. Because of the world's decline in oil prices, gas should be 27 dinars per litre, not 45, so it's not clear, or clearly, why is this price envisaged and why has it affected this budget? I am interested in what will happen to the donation money, i.e. the 37m euros for roads announced this year; a 100m-euro road credit has been announced for this year, as well as the promised 70m euros in spring 2002, when the annual road maintenance in Serbia is $125m. You announced that the average salary in 2004 will be 280 marks a month, when we already have three years of membership in the Council of Europe. Now the average salary is 230 marks a month, while the consumer basket is 400 marks, not full and waving of second-class goods. This is what I'm asking you about the standard for next year's announcement, because these days, Serbia's Power Distribution has announced power outages for 20 to 30,000 consumers a day. It's a December 21st statement by Mr Lutovac, which has not been denied. I don't know if that's what happened, but if it really starts at that rate of exclusion, then I don't think next year there's gonna be any problem keeping standards. Besides, I have to tell you, it's not clear why the pretty large funds were allocated to the agencies? For example, we have the Ministry of Culture, but we have the Culture Agency, as well as a series of other agencies. In addition, when it comes to representative objects, I don't understand why it wasn't offered for sale, because if these objects were built after World War II, then they don't belong to the old owners before World War II and they don't enter the frameworks of denationalization. That was supposed to sell. Otherwise, there are some bizarre details in the budget. For example, the Union of Reserve Military Elders should receive, according to this budget, a million and 900 thousand dinars. After all the problems have been solved, there are only two million dinars left for the Union of Reserve Military Elders. In addition, there are 238 million dinars in some grant sports and youth organisations for sport sport, so the question is whether the social situation is so tense for grants to sports and youth organisations should be allocated to 238 million dinars. That would be some of the remarks. By the way, I've looked at five of Serbia's last budgets, so I think that this budget, with all due respect, was made in this detail that we live in. I have not seen in the expert public arguments that allow better budgets than this. However, I think it is necessary to restructure the funds, because without it what you said here and the budget you offered are contradictory. (Miroljub Veljkovic: Would you like to vote for the budget? I'll vote for the budget. I've seen some of your ideas, I'm surprised you haven't said that in the last five or six years about this pay phone, but only now. I'm sorry I didn't make myself clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16045	The word has a folk emissary of the Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16046	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, really cannot take away the impression Prime Minister Djindjic and Minister Djelic left me in the opening statement on defending one of the most important laws for the state of Serbia, which is the draft budget law this time for 2002. The defense was very energetic and optimistic, and while I was listening to them, I must admit that I was overcome by the same optimism, but unfortunately, it took a very short while, because my optimism was scattered like a soap balloon. I'll try to explain why. Above all, due to my vocation, of course, the only division in this budget that I paid attention to, due to the short time in the study of materials, was the Ministry of Health and Environmental Protection. Indeed, if you look at the first item in terms of salaries, fees and allowances for employees, comparing the figure that existed in the budget plan for 2001 and 2002, you can see that the maximum wage increase is planned, for healthcare workers in the following year about 10% - 11%, calculated on gross salary. Since we know that since 1 April 2001 there has been a new wage accounting system, provided that the contribution remains identical, this increase could probably go up to 15% maximum. What burns us most, of course, immediately points to a reason why there is no room for optimism in this part. We are probably the only resort that has been here for four full months without a minister; and, if the prime minister didn't know that, and I suppose it is, the relationship between the lowest technical capacity and the highest training in health care is 1 to 2.26. True, the Chamber of Health Care Workers of Serbia has made a request to both the prime minister and the health ministry that the coefficient is corrected and that the wage ratio is 1 to 5; there is one semi-official information that the health ministry has even suggested that this relationship be 1 to 6, which sounds optimistic. But then, by comparing all these figures, the question is how to make a difference in these coefficients, not to reduce, upside down, that basic profit, and then the rest of the funds and these planned 15% for next year. I'm not a financial expert, but in my opinion, this doesn't seem too real. You know, I am optimistic by my definition and yet I'm trying very realistically to look at the miles I live in. My colleagues who really believed you, who voted for you, who, like all governments in your programs, gave priority to health care and education, were convinced that in 2002 they had a salary of 1,000 marks. Why not? If Minister Batic, please, has promised the average salary in the 1,000-mark judiciary for 2002... Well, I appreciate that, but at least they have their minister, so at least someone can tell them nice and promise them, and we don't have a minister. [[You can't hear the Prime Minister's comment.]] Then how will your health work? [[You can't hear the Prime Minister's comment.]] But, well, I really want to say that we should find a solution here, too, because be careful, don't tell me that the salary of 1,000 marks is big. Minister Djelic said, and that is true, that there has been a limitation of wages in public enterprises, in state institutions; please look back a few months at what wages are in local self-government. Do they really work so hard and earn that they have salaries of over 1,000 marks, and the doctor turns out that 1,000 marks is a big salary, or that, upside down, a lot of us. That's about one aspect I wanted to point out. There's another story. I'll give you an example of Kickinda Health Center - that's another aspect of the story about the needs of health finances. It is a municipality of 75,000 inhabitants and has a hospital in its centre that is the county type, and that hospital is gravitating about 180,000 inhabitants. It is true that 950 workers are employed at that health center, but at this point we lack at least 50 doctors, which is any other medical professions, even middle-aged ones. For example, for the total material costs for the period 1 January - 1 November 2001 we received 9,700,000 dinars, but, watch out, these material costs include: gas, electricity, utility, services, insurance and emergency services, and all that is taken according to profacture - surgical material, reagents and much more; and for the same period January - November we have to pay 9,400,000 dinars only for gas, because in this way we are heating up. So, despite our best will that we as a health care institution settle all our obligations to the state, which is certainly the most normal observation of relationships, we are not able, but there is always that fear -- what happens if we turn off the heating, the electricity, the water, actually -- what happens to our patients. Or let me put it this way -- for October, November and December, we got from the Ministry that we have 3,842,000 dinars available to us monthly. To explain that to people who don't know what it's all about, that third part of the material story about health care that's more about the credit arrangement. Since we have a hemodialysis unit within our hospital, where 100 patients from the county are dialysisd, monthly consumption for these patients costs our center three and a half million dinars. So we only have 342,000 dinars left to get the drugs of priority, or the ones on the positive list. Here I have to say once again - in March of the month, when the list of all SPS MPs struggled not to introduce 20% of the taxes on medicines, so it did, and for that part of the funds were so minorly reduced in this period, in fact, if it remains the same, we will have 20% more resources, but it is nothing if there is no government guarantee that the drugs on the positive lists will be continuously supplied in hospitals, in pharmacies, for patients who needed it. I know it's not easy to solve. I've only set an example of the environment I come from, and when we take what the whole of Serbia is, that must be one big problem. It's simple, if there's a reform to be done somewhere, it was first and foremost in health care, because if you ask me why, because it's just one vicious circle, a magic clock, that we all go through in life. It's also clear to me that only with the right reform, which is a reform in the economy, can we come up with a positive reform in health, because it's an unbreakable compound that always works with us just like that and no other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16047	The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and the next is Nada Kolundžija.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16048	In the 2002 budget of the Republic of Serbia, for various agencies, bureaus, institutions and administrations, an amount of 1,886,000 dinars and another 400,000 for NGOs are foreseen. We ask ourselves justifiably: how do we fund all this? The Serbian Radical Party believes that the budget should be free of all costs which are not absolutely necessary, i.e. to free citizens and the economy of all expenditure that are not necessary at this time. Who's gonna charge the budget? Whether the budget will be charged by those who have an average salary of 6,000 dinars or 7,000 dinars, and only the consumer basket costs 12,000 dinars. Or the budget will be filled by those who are left without a job these days. The Serbian Radical Party believes it is necessary to let both the economy and the citizens get to the air, to survive this period which is very difficult. The Serbian Radical Party believes funds from the budget should not entrenched members of some of the parties you have deployed in the bureaus, agencies and various administrations. What we are proposing to the government is that all resources should be focused on addressing the growing social needs of citizens. The Serbian Radical Party, of course, will not vote in favour of this draft budget, because we believe it does not meet neither the needs nor the possibilities of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16049	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has given up her application. Now the word has a folk MP, Borisvoje Drakulovic, after him Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16050	Dear fellow Members, I would like to talk about the part of the budget relating to social contributions. Since we have become a state of charity, not a state of work, this government that has been offering us this help, on the side, hasn't even tried to put us into the budget, say, disability and war since 1990 and beyond. That's not right. They're at the charity and the beggar stick anyway -- we watch a lot of people begging, and it's not right that they're not built into that part of the money. I don't expect them to do it anyway, because they don't care. When defending the country, he got out of this country, so he doesn't care. I don't expect him to understand us. We from the past also called during the war (during NATO bombing) also had projected funds in the budget, social givings, for that part of the population. But that doesn't mean... They had all the legal rights, but you're making a law of your own. [[You can't hear the Prime Minister's comment.]] But the end will come to your law, not to worry. You won't scare us at all. At least we can't be afraid. (Glass: Don't babble...) I don't pollute with you. I deal with the Prime Minister, he asks me and I answer him. It's my right. But among other things, I know you're done, certainly soon. You say whatever you want, and someone who knows how to fix this thing will come along, and at least save this patriotic piece, and you're suffocating it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16051	The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarević, and the following is the registered MP Vojislav Jankovic. You're giving up? As MP Vojislav Jankovic gave up his application for the word, the next reported word is MP Stanko Kovacevic. He's not there. Okay, I give my word to MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the 2002 budget is just a passing farce from the government, which has been granted only today's picture at this session. It's been a whole year, and it's never been except for the forced ministers, who have blatantly defended these laws, that were not present at the assembly sessions. The time of preparation for each MP is so little that a government that is sure of dynamics cannot calculate it. Nowhere in the world is the budget brought today for tomorrow except this government. Minister Djelic said he would deliver detailed elements, plans and programmes of this budget to us sometime in February. The 220 billion budget planned for 2002 is for comment, but not this way and this way. You didn't allow expert groups or individuals to affect this budget. That's what Mr Zoran Djindjic said in his exposé. Regarding the delivery and preparation of this material, you are also dissatisfied with coalition partners, who have already given their court in the means of informing on this subject. We Serbian radicals also gave you some suggestions for the previous 2001 budget. We didn't expect you to accept them, but we expected to get any parallel information so we could compare certain divisions from the previous and this budget, which is the logic of thinking in this branch. We wanted to compare some of the donations you promised the people. The promised consumer baskets are so light and so heavy that you don't even know the real situation today, and you're making a budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16053	The word has the People's MP Branko Ruzic, and the next is the folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The remaining time of the SPS parliamentary group is 25 minutes, with eight speakers reported. The remaining time of the SRS is 21 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16054	Thank you for that information. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on the agenda of the assembly session, we have a budget, which is so designed that it will certainly deepen social tensions in the state and bring a large number of citizens into the category of socially unsettled. The budget is primarily unbalanced and inflatable. The projected budget deficit, amounting to a billion and 200 million German marks, will certainly not be covered by the funds provided for by the proposal and for the following reasons. First of all, it's very embarrassing for this so-called. An expert government to cover the budget deficit since the privatisation of high-profit enterprises, instead of focusing on reviving production that has been devastated since the arrival of DOS to power. It is also strange that 360 million marks of this year's privatisation are already being designed to fill the budget deficit without the proposer telling us which companies are concerned and how much danger another tens of thousands of workers are being found on the street. It seems, however, that some narrow circle of people already knows all this, but does not want, in this case, to be transparent. You expect 300 million marks from donations and, of course, it is again a colorful lie for the citizens of Serbia. Why don't you say that there's little in the donation structure that you've got, that there's credit and why don't you tell us how much money is in those 300 million German marks that you've projected under the donation point, actually credit, and how much you're going to get. Also, you predicted to fill the budget and loans from international financial institutions of 450 million German marks. The only question is who will repay those loans and at what rate. As much as you rely on international financial institutions, that's your problem, but make sure you don't get what's going on in Argentina these days. At the very least, it is funny that you design loans from domestic business banks to complete the budget deficit of 180 million German marks and ask whether the proponent thinks that domestic business banks will even exist after the shock of the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, Mladjan Dinkic, who destroys domestic Serbian banking. In addition to these contradictions, it is truly surprising that you have so much confidence in only one resolute minister and that of the minister of justice and local self-government, Vladan Batic, so you give him all the information that doesn't belong to him at all. Namely, Articles 13. The 2002 budget law, you provided for Minister Batic to be responsible for taking over commitments and issuing orders for paying jobs from his respective jurisdiction, worth 200 million German marks. It is also a very unbalanced distribution of funds in the department's division of finance and economy, where you predict for southern Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, about 30 million German marks and amazingly the same amount for all other cities and municipalities in Serbia. However, when we know who from the Serbian government is in charge of southern Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, this kind of transfer of funds is not surprising at all. In the budget section 8 relating to the Ministry of the Interior, the projected costs for business trips, i.e. the diaries, amount to as much as 33 million German marks. No one in their right mind can support such a non-resonal spending of budgets, unless Resolute Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, since he boasts that we have joined the international coalition to fight terrorism, has decided to help all members of the government equally, both by the gourds of Pakistan and Afghanistan arrest Osama Bin Laden. I would recommend that he solve terrorist actions in Serbia, and the latest one happened in Temerin when an explosive device was placed under the car of the head of the municipal SPS board. The SPS MPs will be against this budget for reasons that it is unbalanced, inflatable, not funded from real sources and will do no good to the citizens of Serbia. And finally, I would like on behalf of the SPS MPs to all Serbian citizens a happy New Year's and Christmas holidays, and a much better government in the coming year, but of course, after early parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16055	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16056	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a need to draw attention to a few more principled things in the midst of this debate in principle because I have the impression that they are getting a little lost in this debate. In fact, the budget represents a certain range between rights and real revenues. So we must always keep in mind both sides. Unfortunately, over the last 50 or 60 years, especially over the past 10 years, this problem has been solved by the fact that, when there have been difficulties, the rights have been nominally accepted, they have existed legally, but they are not feasible. When someone says, we've had money for disabled people, both for these and for them, it's not true. So, over the past 10 years, people haven't regularly received pensions, they haven't received child benefits, a whole series of legal rights hasn't been realised, and it's been a way for the budget to be one facade that's being controlled at the beginning or at the end of the year, and what's really going on behind the scenes, it's only those poor people who came and asked what happened to my pension, what happened to my child's allowance, what happened to maternity or some other right. While in 2001 every legal right was exercised. It's something that's different from a long line of years ago. Another way to bring down what I called the philosophy of this budget, but also the idea of budgets, is to finance expenditures from unrealistic sources. There are two possibilities. One is the use of substance, the use of national wealth, so that there is no depreciation, which is not the restoration of roads, which is not the renewal of railways, which is not the renewal of what is invested in, but is spent as if it were liquid income or being defused by some loans. And that was also 10 years, partly before that. If I tell you that 120 trains have been cancelled today in Serbia, every day it is because our railways are the worst in this part of the world, then it is not a matter of a year but a matter of 20 years: 20 years it has been spent and, of course, some of them have been spent on current budget spending. We're done with this, and now we're facing reality, we respect the rights until they change, and while there are real sources of income that are the state of the economy. A thousand marks for educational and healthcare workers are excellent, but don't let your colleague say that the burden on the economy is too high. Don't let one go out and say left, the other say right and then cover the entire political field as a whole; then one says that on the side of the expenditure still needs, and the other says that on the side of the income is too tight. You must agree in your parliamentary group, because you see this balance between income and expenditure, which on one side will respect the rights, and on the other hand to respect that principle of real resources. That's what's really hard after 10 years and it's painful. It's painful to face reality if you've been wandering for 10 years, but we must one moment as a nation to face it and I'm sure there's no alternative to this confrontation, no matter how painful it may be. It is the social budget because the social rights that we have found are what they are. So either we respect them, or the Assembly will change those social rights laws or we will continue that old story that we do not give people what is their right. It is not a social issue of leftist monopoly, but every state must respect the social rights of its citizens. It's not in the budget tradition to finance pension and health insurance, but in a situation where contributions can't do that, then that budget has to be financed from taxpayers. Someone's gonna ask why the taxpayers pay for it. Because social stability is a factor in economic stability. If people are dissatisfied in this country because they have not received what they belong to, it will be felt in the atmosphere and then there is no spirit of entrepreneurship, there is no such good economy if the population is unsatisfactory. People won't go to the demonstrations and don't let Toma look forward to it. When they had two stamps, they didn't go. So social dissatisfaction doesn't turn into political dissatisfaction, but it destabilizes the system and that's why it's very important that all those who have certain rights exercise those rights, because then they believe in their own country. If they believe in their country then they'll be loyal, then they'll save, then they'll legalize their jobs, then they won't deal with the gray economy, and then gradually that society will be normal. The other thing that is very often mentioned is to encourage and develop an economy. It's not the role of the budget to start the economy. Indeed, if you expect the budget to start the economy, then on the wrong topic you have started that debate. In principle, it's not even the government's role to start the economy. In principle, the role of the government is to remove obstacles to the normal functioning of the economy. At this stage of the obstacle there are many and at this stage the obstacles were international, the obstacles were systemic, the obstacles were financial blockades: 800 billion dinars of mutual debt we found in the economy. So, you let that economy go, and it's going to sink. We had to be much more active in the economy than a normal government would, as we imagined, work, but not because it's the government's role to start the economy now. The government's role is to be a trafficker and to prevent car crashes, to regulate traffic flows. The role of government is not to sit with every driver and drive for him, as did previous governments. I think that the future needs to be understood for the fact that this government is interventionist only to the extent that it is required of it; and they ask for it ten times, and then someone from the government gets involved. We didn't impose on anyone or the board of directors or anything else, nor did our initiative come about. Not at all. But there have been thousands of cases where it's being sought and where we fail because we don't have the capacity simply, we don't have enough people to do it. The philosophy of this government is that the government needs to remove obstacles, to enable the economy to operate itself, to create a framework within which the economy, in the conditions of fair competition, will develop itself. Finally, that fatal consumer basket, I've heard it 50 times here. So that consumer basket that's been measured all these years and now measured. They produce, those categories, those classes, those qualities that have always been and are now. So, we didn't just say that apples were rotting in it, and three years ago there were red apples. The same apples that were then and now, same sugar, same oil, same meat. When we came and formed this government it took three average salaries to buy one consumer basket, and the consumer basket is for one family and when someone says 1.7 salaries can't be fed, because it's a consumer basket, it doesn't understand the bill. So the consumer basket is for the family. The largest number of families in Serbia is with four members of the household, so the consumer basket counts on the four-member family and is believed to be if two people work in the family that they can cover the consumer basket. However, the same criterion a year ago said it required three average salaries for a single consumer basket. Today it takes 1.75% of the salary for one consumer basket. So almost twice as much money is needed for the same amount of stuff. That amount of stuff (see Serbian Statistical Institute, Federal Statistical Institute, the same ones that measured earlier measures today) is not defined as the Serbian Government, it was defined in 1992 as a measure of the need of a family. She has 100 items from clothes to food, drinks, toothpaste and everything people need. This means, for sure, that this consumer basket represents a criterion of poverty. In normal countries, you don't measure the standard of how much you eat and how much food you can buy, but if you measure compared to what we found, not in relation to where we want to be, then today we're much better standing as average citizens than we were a year ago. For one part, it must be the merit of this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16057	The right to a replica of MP Tomislav Nikolic, though perhaps the prime minister was referring to the unbelieving Tom.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16058	Mr. Prime Minister tried by misreading to challenge at least two manipulations at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The first, Mr. President, our inter-party relationship, and so I look at my relationship with anyone else in the Assembly, is not such that you tell me Tomo here and that you are challenging the suspicions of other members of the SRS, which is why the Prime Minister, it is my duty to deny it, to represent the political party most persecuted in the country here, addressing the tone that is unique to the members of the same political party. So this is what I'm dismissing to you, Prime Minister. The second manipulation, I've never looked forward to demonstrations in this country, especially the ones you orchestrated while you were in the opposition. They always ended bloody and destructively, and while I participated in the Serbian government, there was no demonstration, so I have no reason to encourage them at all, nor to look forward to them. I'm afraid if there's a demonstration, it's going to be terrible and that this country doesn't need it, but don't convince us, and if social peace disappears, it'll stop the economy from working and there'll be no motive. If there is no social peace, the government of the Republic of Serbia will fall, and that is the best and easiest thing that can happen in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16059	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, followed by a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16060	Mr. Djelic, these days you have said that changes in Serbia are taking place so quickly that the US congressional dispatch arrives, and you have already implemented those reforms. We never doubted that you were the mere perpetrators of the will of the American Congress and that you were a puppet government. It's nice of you to admit it to the public. It's a shame for one country, Mr. Djelic, because every government to prove, among other things, its independence leads its own national and economic policy and does not wait for someone from America or the white world to tell her what to do. I guess we need to know what our job is. And you, Mr. Djindjic, claim this is the savings budget. This is an extremely wasteful budget. You just tried to manipulate here with masses, claiming that the consumer basket today amounts to 1.7 average salaries. Now I'm just asking you -- how is it possible for me to live much worse than I did last year, and my receipts are much higher, because as a MP, I have a much bigger salary than I had as a minister. The consumer basket, Mr. Prime Minister, does not include the price of electricity, utility, clothing, books, anything that has cost 1000% in Serbia. We don't just eat oil, sugar, a little flour and some pasta. He needs this people to provide himself with something else. You claim there is no money for educators -- there is, Mr. Minister, only that you have not allocated as much funds for these agencies as the total budget for secondary education. Unfortunately, I don't have time anymore, but we've proposed a whole new budget proposal through our amendments, so we'll explain it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16061	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16062	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the shortest comment on the 2002 draft budget would already be seen, as the situation we were in has been repeated, adopting the 2001 budget. We are offered a budget that has a deficit in the beginning, except this time the deficit is significantly higher, and as a source for covering the deficit, not sufficiently argumentative and convincing, we are offered the funds achieved by privatisation, international donations and loans from domestic banks. I'll talk about the argument for these sources a little later, but first I'd like to make some basic dilemmas about the methodology for determining certain costs. At the same time, I'd like to ask some questions, which I think would be important to explain here and to the public. In fact, at least that kind of practice existed, if you're planning something, to take care of what it was in the previous period. So, I was planning something in the previous period, so those expectations came true, or they didn't, and that's why I took everything into account, and now, considering all that, I suggest, for example. some other levels of cost. Since I haven't seen what they are, for example, in the light of this budget. whether travel costs or how it is projected to achieve travel costs in 2002, I don't see that they should be exactly a billion and fifty-five million for this year. I may have overlooked the number, but not to compromise if the number is correct, the principle applies to what I say. The same thing is when you should say - and what are these general services under contract and how are they projected to be accomplished in this year, so it is planned to spend 2.565 billion in next year? How were costs incurred in 2001 on the basis of a fee in nature, in the transport of employees, as an impressive 2.5 billion for this year is planned? How are the costs determined for specialised services in 2001, how much are they and how much will they be, when four billion and 154 million are planned in the following year? There must be a dozen so-called. cost places, which represent various agencies and bureaus, and all that costs a billion dinars somewhere. It should not be stressed that we, as MPs, have no influence on the formation of these agencies or bureaus, and that means there is no dimension of their functioning, and then that amount should be spent. Finally, let me also say that, that there are main objections, I thought that these were concerns that were fine, the previous government were -- why there were large subsidies, because this buys social peace, why the government with so many regulations, because it has to be regulated in other ways, when that, the promoter also reaches for subsidies, by having these subsidies now significantly higher than those that were, and we have already concluded that the government with more regulations than the previous government. Of course, for reasons of courtesy, I don't want to characterize that behavior when you're allowing yourself something that's lightmotive to someone else's criticism. But it's probably part of the proposal's image now. But to get back to the sources. We need to believe that from the cost of privatisation, we're going to incasulate 10.8 billion. We have no explanation of what will be privatized, by name and last name, what has been done so far, until the talks on this topic have gone away, whether tenders are open everywhere, etc.? So we have to believe that 10.8 billion will happen, let it create doubt; I'm not saying that it is already known in advance and what will be sold, and who it will be sold to and for what it will be sold. That's the doubt we have to take away. As for the donation, it's said - we'll incasate 9 billion. All right, just on which side, how, from whom, what will be the concessions we have to make, to believe that it makes sense and that it has a purpose? I'm not going to comment on how much this is and what this is about the loan, it probably takes so much, because these loans should cover the cost of paying off interest, about that amount and that amount, balanced, for the debts that were previously created, created or that would still be created. All in all, I think it should be about this budget, and it would be worth answering these questions. According to these issues, and probably others, which will be heard here, this budget should be further improved, etc., and then given a decision again, because until then, the SPS parliamentary group will not vote to adopt such a budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16063	The word has a National MP, Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16064	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected citizens, to comment that my turn had passed, I was officially invited by the Office of the Assembly because I had a phone call. But let the gentlemen say it's been a while, but I'm still going to talk about the bill on the budget and the laws we passed the other day as a single package, because neither the budget law nor the budget itself can be talked about without connecting to those two laws we passed - the excise duties and the sales tax. It would be interesting to now return the picture of the vote on the two laws, where it is easy to see that those critics who criticised the 2001 budget early this year have criticised the government's efforts to bring the budget down to those standards, which can be covered exclusively from real sources. That is why we had to use such a wide range of tax procedures, and it is precisely this year, when other sources can raise funds to cover the budget deficit and all budget costs, then it is absolutely logical, reform, social and developmental move for the government to propose this legislation to abolish certain taxes on a certain type of product, even if it is for a period of two years. Why can it be said for this budget that it is even developmental - so it must be developmental, although Mr. President says the budget function is not developmental, but there are developmental elements in this budget, as it is projected to build 340km of traffic, which is absolutely proof of one development element in the budget. There are also development elements in the agrarian sector, there are development elements related to the Excise Act and the Transport Tax Act, where excise funds will form a road construction fund. It will also cover the necessary social resources and resources for health and education. There have been remarks here on the scale of the budget, that it is too large, 219 billion versus 120 billion for this year and that no one will ever accept the explanation that the minister gave us, that the amount of the budget is so high precisely because of the new items, the large number of expenditure items that must be covered. For the first time this year, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made commitments both to foreign trusts and to non-scheduled citizens, and is particularly referring to commitments related to the recovery of funds for Serbia's economic rebirth. Also, there are a large number of objections to the deficit level. If you had a chance to listen to our Minister Djelic in "Presing", if I'm not mistaken (on channel three, and yes, on "Presing" was my boss, Mr. Perisic), he was asked a question about the height of the deficit on the third channel. I remember one element of Mr. Djelic's response, that he is not quite sure that with so much privatisation revenue, he will be able to cover the budget deficits, so he said his colleague is a minister of business and privatisation, Mr. Vlahovic, a much greater optimist than he is. I can say that we are delirious of Minister Vlahovic, because I believe that in 2002, revenues from privatisation will be able to help cover budget deficits much more than planned in these budget items. The development function, which has also been shown in the elements of the Agrarian budget, is also very important, but above all are the most significant elements of the social function of this budget, as for the first time, budget users will be able to get the advance funds the previous government has committed to citizens. In one word, the 2002 budget, apart from the fact that it will be a real-source budget, will have a social, development function, where the elements of the reform will put on a slightly more stable footing. Finally, I just want to meet you that a week ago, a delegation from the Serbian Parliament attended the IMF and World Bank seminar in Vienna, where it was just talking about the budget and the tax policy that is related to this agenda point. Dear fellow Members, I am very pleased that three MPs from the opposition parties, from the SPS, Mr Momir Radoicic, Zoran Nikolic, from the SSJ, had the opportunity to hear the very important authority of the IMF and the World Bank, as they give full support to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ in measures taken to resuscitate the inherited situation and in creating reform preconditions for progress, the economic development of this country. It was particularly pleasant for MEPs from Bulgaria, Romania, BiH and Croatia to hear the opinion of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, Mr Djura Mavr -- on the note of residents of the IMF in Belgrade, Mr Joshua Shark, that there is high hopes for the prosperity of the economy and democracy in Serbia-Yugoslavia -- that for Croatia, it is a very important fact that the IMF believes in Serbia-SRJ's economic and democratic development. Croatia is based on these facts on its future and development, as without it it would be very difficult for Croatia. What is more important, the IMF and World Bank authorities have also pledged further support for the development of Yugoslavia, but have made an observation that Yugoslavia and Serbia must create basic preconditions as quickly as possible for the touch of foreign investment rather than donor capital. It is therefore necessary to create legal conditions and guarantees and to restructure the banking and financial system too well. The IMF and the World Bank have promised to give us great support on those elements. These elements of the restructuring are also in this budget, which should indeed be commended and be assured that its realisation will bring Serbia's further economic and reform stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16065	According to the Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Mr Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16066	Dear gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I must say, regardless of Mr Stanko Kovacevic's explanation, at this session of MPs Rajko Baralic and Dragan Todorovic, who were at board meetings and were late for the start of the debate, were not allowed, although they were not allowed to participate in the Committee's work after the decision, because they were said to have missed their right. It's a serious breach of the Rules of Procedure. In this case, when it comes to the MP's private conversation, then changes are allowed in order by application. I must say that the SPS parliamentary group will never be any trafficker to this government or anywhere. There's one difference, at least we made it, gentlemen, to make 37 bridges.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16067	Mr. Tomic, your objection to the Rules of Procedure is unfounded. First I'm obliged to give you an explanation, Mr. Tomic, and then we'll put it to a vote. People's MPs Rajko Baralic and Dragan Todorovic did not get a word at the last session for the fingertip that you are time per article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were spent, not because they were not present when I called them. We'll check in the stenographic notes. I am putting to vote the violation of the Rules of Procedure by MP Dragan Tomic. For 63, against 82, two abstentions, did not vote 43, a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that the objection to the Rules of Procedure is unfounded. The Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic, has the word, and after him is the messenger of the people, Zivanko Radovanchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16068	All right, Stanko hits the name of the current boss, the diapazon is from Micunovic to Perisic's big one. Ladies and gentlemen, these are two documents, a proposal from the government for this year's budget and for next year's budget. If this year's budget, where it says clearly, is a consumer inflator, and if it did, then this budget is simply wasteful. How does the government think he's implementing this most important part of social policy? Simply by dragging tax bonds and excise taxes on their hands to their elbows, pulling out the little money, giving them socially endangered and social categories, the users of budget funds. Then with these same users hands to shoulder, pull through electricity, communals and other duties, which in the meantime grow. It's a simple account the government is relying on. What is my point, is that this would possibly be better explained by Zarko Korac than by the resolute minister. He's a man who covers more resistors than the tobacco industry, where he's owed by the Prime Minister himself, up to the threat and rights of sexual minorities. He'd be a more competent person to defend this. It can be expected that in the coming year, based on this budget, reality in Serbia will be like that virtual reality of Serbia's Radio-Television. There is nothing else we can expect from the government that knowingly enters credit arrangements, pays for its mistake because it has forgotten and forgiven the bombing, pays for its mistake by quickly giving up the continuity of Yugoslavia, the SFRY, and now these mistakes are paid by taking new loans. The budget clearly foresees that their mistakes will be paid by Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16069	The word is from the People's Messenger Zivanko Radovanchev. The remaining time for your parliamentary group, under Article 90, is 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16070	The Honorable Presidency, respected members of the government, honourable MPs, the 2002 budget law of the Republic of Serbia is certainly the most important law in this session, both for the government and the state, and for citizens who are full of the budget. I will try in short lines, due to limited time, to keep your attention at the position of the budget relating to the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry in the Republic of Serbia's 2002 budget. Before I start dealing with the specific amounts of funds in the budget identified for the Ministry of Agriculture, I want to characterise the situation in the area of agricultural production. We often hear an assessment from officials that the situation in agriculture is good, better than it was and that agriculture is on the way to recovery. This assessment is supported by the fact that agricultural production is higher by 25% this year compared to the previous dry year in 2000. The data is correct, but it must not be ignored that the growth in production is not only achieved by the government's good moves and better economic conditions of engagement in this area, but rather that the increase in production and the gift of valuable farmers and favourable climate conditions in this year. The economic situation of agriculture is even more difficult in 2001, and farmers are even more poor and disappointed. It was natural for farmers to expect to improve their economic situation after the birth year, as it was in 2001. However, agriculture remains only a verbal recognition for its contribution to our economic stability and the growth of social product. I will list a number of outstanding issues that followed this production, and the current government did not have the answers to these problems. We had the most expensive year in agriculture in terms of investment in production. There was no regressed fuel, no seeds, no credit under more favourable conditions. Credit-Monetary policy seems to know no agriculture as a production that needs loans under more favourable conditions, respecting character and cycle of production. The leaders of the monetary government do not realize that monetary stability is not their own goal, but that monetary stability is the same monetary stability, but in a function of greater production. Also, students of the late professor cannot learn a lesson that lending to agriculture under more favourable conditions does not affect monetary stability as an inflation generator. We liberalized the import of everything and made it more interesting than dealing with hard-working. We did not protect domestic production and exposed it to unfair competition of goods from imports, and there is still no mechanisms for subsidies and export incentives in exports. Such a policy has so far resulted in an unrecorded foreign trade deficit of our country, where the coverage of exports is only 38%. It's a really dramatic piece of information. If there's a trade in goods with abroad in the area of agriculture, the result for the branch of conjugality, which we say is our export chance, is also catastrophic. In nine months, we have the data, agricultural exports of $20 million have been achieved, and imports have been made in the same period for $419 million. I have listed only one of the worse moves or inactions of the current authority towards agriculture, which have made the situation of agriculture even more difficult and intolerable. I also want to commend what was good this year. The buying-in and payment of wheat is realised in the framework of agreed terms and deadlines. Milk premiums are paid in the amounts we have adopted, with regular payment. The result of such a policy in this area, in the area of milk production, is a 10% increase in production this year, in the year of expensive livestock food, due to the drought we had in 2000. It is also to welcome the implementation of measures to eliminate enzoetic leukosis of cattle (that is one type of disease) and to compensate for a part of the value lost to producers, with the ultimate goal of eliminating this disease in the shortest time period from our Republic. Foreign budgetary spending is the autonomous right of the government to propose to the National Assembly and to adopt the same National Assembly. From the proposal for budget allocation, we can recognise the mood and understanding of the government in certain areas of budgetary spending. If it's to judge by that, agriculture isn't best written. Agriculture is not seen as a serious branch and is one of the few real opportunities of our creation and development. The participation of the Ministry of Agriculture in the total budget fell from 5.8% in 2000 to 3.9 in 2001 and 3.5% in 2002. Agriculture Minister Mr. Vesenov, while in opposition, if I remember correctly, advocated that the participation of agriculture in the budget should be at the level of the participation of the agricultural population in the overall population. That participation is 19%. A year is enough time for Minister Veselinov to realise his idea of opposition times. I believe that Mr. Vesenov is in the same position today as when he was in the opposition and I am convinced that it is not his inconsistency, but, I would say, his inability to provide agriculture with a priority position in the government's activities. All ministers in the government must understand that the fastest development of our country can be ensured by a priority investment in the development of agriculture, because of its natural reproductive capacity. By investing in agriculture, we must create an opportunity to hire those who will lose their jobs in the transition process, and the agricultural interest to make young people interesting and thus stop the migration of the population from the village to the city. Agriculture will also have to carry that burden, and we must prepare it by investing in its development. I would like to commend the promoter for planning significant milk premiums in 2002, as well as a regress for breeding cattle of controlled origin. I would also welcome the proposal to encourage sugar beet production, tobacco production through premiums, as well as the rise of new plantations of plums and vines. Based on its experience and experience from the field, it is not good to predict the premium per hectare of the surface, either sugar beets or tobacco, but better to provide the premium per kilogram of root, and the offerings are certainly a direct consequence of the invested work and costs. I particularly welcome the proposal to provide 80 million dinars to encourage new plantations of plums, so that Serbia will not be a land under the plums only in the songs of our famous Desanka Maksimovic. In the end, I would invite all of you from the current authorities to read the stenographic notes of your comments and criticisms sent to the authorities at the time for their irresponsible relationship with agriculture. If you've forgotten, those you've promised well-being in agriculture, they certainly haven't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16071	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16072	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to present two key things to Mr. Djelic. In the financing of agriculture, there is one thing that has not been seen. It's 5.5% of the social standard. That's what you said. Where's the biggest income - in warfare. Only if there was a redistribution in the budget, that instead of 6.3 billion dinars would be eight billion. So a billion and 700 million more to invest in agriculture. Then in the first year, we'd have a billion and 600 million profits. And where would it be? For example, to fight the weeds. Today, our fields are extremely rooted. The previous speaker said we have an increase in livestock and profit. In 2003, we'd have over 900 billion profits. Secondly, the government of the Republic of Serbia should invest in capital parts, did you say? He's speaking to the minister. ) One of the capital things is the underground gas storage facility - Banatski Dvor. We pay the Hungarians 60m euros each year. It'd be worth it in five years. We would have tenm euros left, and fourm euros would have to be made out of gas going to Bosnia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16073	Second announcement, please, MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16074	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was in such a hurry to find Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, and here's the thing that happened to me, as soon as I showed up at the Assembly Hall, Mr. Djindjic left. And actually, first of all, I wanted to commend him for his exposé that went along with the budget law. Because Mr. Djindjic has indeed achieved a miracle. The budget debate is always a debate on the results of government work and plans for next year, which should be supported by certain financial sources. Mr Djindjic has achieved something that Tito has never achieved in the past year, although he ruled for about 40 years. The heirs of Tito did not do so, and Slobodan Milosevic did not think about it. Mr Djindjic managed to abolish the constitution and rule automatically without the Constitutional Court, because the Constitution does not exist without the Constitutional Court. And when we don't have a Constitutional Court, everything is allowed. It can be governed by regulations, it can be ruled by the free will of state authorities and powers. We have a draft budget law ahead of us, from which the 18% forecast to finance the state with foreign loans and donations. I would immediately ask the question - if you have received five million dollars for the delivery of Slobodan Milosevic, how many Serbs now need to deliver to fill 18% of the budget in order to deliver live sprawl to The Hague tribunal, because it is obvious that you are still getting money on this alone. And, it would be good to express itself through the budget, since we didn't have it last year in the budget projection, where you plan to spend those five million dollars you've already received for the delivery of Slobodan Milosevic and 500,000 for the Banovic brothers' delivery. That's what all the press is talking about. So, as soon as your DOS press reports, there is no particular dispute, and before we get into the problem of the budget items themselves, I wanted to ask the Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic -- why, after three days of announcement, it was completely sudden last night, as thunder from the clear sky, with Studio B, the interview with Ivo Puhanic, the director and editor of Zagreb's "National", who talked about the tobacco mafia and the fact that some from Surcin, the Surcin mobsters, called him and offered money to keep quiet. I am now touched by whether it's Serbia's budget money, offered to Puhanic, or whether it's half-budget money that they got by asphalting all over Serbia, competing with all social and state firms. They got monopoly jobs, so now they can shut their mouths. What gets me the most is how many amounts it's about. You DOS have boasted all this year that you are for transparency, and the more conspiratory authorities Serbia has not had for a long time. The state in which there is no Constitutional Court has no constitutional order, no legal order at all, the state has no democratic authority either. In order for the government to be democratic, it must be subject to control. Who now can control the government from the aspect of controlling the general legal acts? No one can. When both legislative and executive powers are in solidarity with the adoption of anti-constitutional general legal acts. What can't go through the Parliament, can go through the government. About 80 regulations were passed by the Serbian government, which do not comply with the constitution. While you were an opposition, you attacked the government only because of one regulation, because of an anti-monopol regulation that carried out the price control of the most basic products, and now 80 anti-constitutional provisions and nothing to anyone. There's no Constitutional Court. While there is no Constitutional Court, I have a question -- why do you even go out with this budget law? Why didn't you make the law in one sentence - Serbia has a budget, which forms a government and takes care of its collection and spending neatly. That'd be enough. Of course, there is another trend that continues this government. Our budgets are getting shorter and shorter. We have the budgets... (Glass: Yours are shorter.) It's not the budget, Milka, what you think it could be. The budget is something else entirely. Your budget is on an increasing number of sides. [[Laughter]] Why? To cover up budget users. You're the one who came up with the funding of the budget and the business of the so-called business. NGOs. There are hundreds of them in Serbia. So far they've mostly been the so-called so-called. NGOs funded from foreign sources - CIA, SOROŠ, CARNEGI, FULBATE USA etc. Since there is no longer the basic reason for their funding from abroad, as there has been a shift of power in Serbia, the West will no longer give money to NGOs, but has instructed you to finance them. These NGOs are slowly taking part of your government under control. The question is how much you control not just "B92." You can't control it at all. The question now is how long you can control state television. Because she's more under the control of various NGOs than yours. A whole series of other state services is being taken away from you, and you're funding them. And to fund them, you take money from the people. With this budget, you predict Nebojsa Covic for nearly a billion. Last year there were 500 million, and now almost a billion and still in the federal budget of 500 million. Nebojsa Covic, although reportedly there is no Cypriot rebellion in three municipalities in southern Serbia, will have three times more money available next year than this year. And inflation, according to your indicators, is about 50%. They say 35 percent. Of course, I don't trust them, because there are some of their experts who say about 50%, and we see at retail prices what inflation really is. It all went up four or five times, 400 to 500%, respectively. But it's not the subject of my speech. Minister, you will have the opportunity (to speak to Minister Djelic) to plead later on on all these issues. It's not the subject of my exposure. I point out here the issue of funding Nebojka Covic and his needs. Of course, if something is five times more expensive, in terms of bread, oil, electricity, and utility, inflation is already 400-500%. Something else is important here right now, Minister, just a little patience. This is about Nebojsa Covic. What does Nebojsa Covic now fund when there are no armed fights? With these billions and a half, Nebojsa Covic is funding the emigration of Serbs from three southern Serbian municipalities. The Serbs are already moving out there. They sell houses, leave Preshevo, Bujanovac and Bear. Covic only provides money for the reconstruction of the Ship's houses, for the construction of new Ship's houses and for the financing of their private activities. That's why he needs three times as much money as he did last year. You've arranged that nicely. A billion in the republican budget and 500 million in the federal budget. We know that right now we can't stop you from doing this. You have a majority to vote on. You know, your government is getting too strong, it's too Kabadahian, and you're about to see what's happening to Dinkic with a thousand bank workers outside the Federal Assembly. The process has begun and he can't stop. Those before you were in power were also once in a while boasts and ossions, but they were little children in haughtiness and passion compared to you. I call on the National Assembly not to accept this bill on the budget and to order the government to submit a new proposal, where the budget items would be balanced and consistent with the real opportunities and needs of Serbian society.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16075	The word has a folk MP, Hranislav Peric, and the next is Stevan Kesejic. The remaining time of your parliamentary group is eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16076	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today on Parliament's agenda is the draft budget law. In my opinion, this law is the most important of the laws we have in this House. At first, I must say that there was no respect for the assembly procedure before the budget came to parliament. No one had time to deal with these questions. The government is too busy traveling around the world, no one could find himself and find time to adopt this according to congregation procedure. First, according to the Rules of Procedure, this point could not be found on the agenda. The budget is most important because it will define how citizens will live in 2002. The way it's in these papers, I'm sure we're not writing well. The budget at first glance looks bombish, the figures are big, the budget is big and it would be ideal if this poor people could fill this budget, because the other day in your information funds came out the data that three million citizens in the country were poor. When making a budget, it should be calculated that as many citizens as possible participate in their earnings in budgeting. What are we doing? We're cutting down the number of company employees. Last year there was a deficit in the budget. You filled out the budget by selling President Slobodan Milosevic, and since you planned this budget with less revenue than expenditure, what is this next for sale? Are we going to fill this deficit in the budget by selling the general? The budget envisions funds from privatisation, from sales. If we sell assets and businesses and spend money through the budget, it's neither domestic nor Serbian. He does not like the Serbian host of the one who sells fields and property to drive a Mercedes, wearing foreign suits and ties. What you sell once, you never have. This is where they change harder when it comes to the past tense. All the deficits in the past and in this budget had to be filled in by those who bombed us and those who destroyed us. You had to do everything to make up for the war damage, the ones who broke our businesses had to take them down first, put them in function, and then buy them. The price of bombed enterprises and companies in office is not the same. One is the budget planned. It's a poor budget that's planned to be filled with both loans and loans. And finally, a high budget was planned for users to reach out to higher figures from the budget, and then they will all be calmed down on a percentage basis. It doesn't matter when you plan on one user with five million in your budget or 10 million in your budget, because out of five million 70% of your budget is 3.5 million, and out of 10, it's 7. This budget, as you planned, will introduce even greater poverty in the country because the taxes you have introduced will not be possible for Serbian citizens to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16077	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Kesejić, followed by Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16078	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with this budget, no one can be satisfied. Nor do those who charge the budget, due to inappropriately large taxes, and also those users due to poor construction, i.e. the distribution of budgets and imbalances of this budget. The budget proposal should have been appropriate to the economic situation in Serbia because the budget, as proposed to the National Assembly, is wasteful and cannot be accepted on either the income or the expenditure side. The budget is also unrealistic because Minister Djelic speaks of varying inflation rates. He talked about 30 per cent inflation for 2001 in the media, so he spoke here for a pay phone about 35 per cent. But it is that inflation is far greater and that we cannot trust it. Then why suggest an increase in budgets if there is no inflation, and by more than 80% compared to the previous year. Regardless of its virtuosity, it would be good if instead of looking at beans, to look into citizens' pockets, and then it would probably be possible to bring this revenue and expenditure side into line, or both, to the extent that the economic situation and the people of Serbia can endure these burdens and charges. The spine in all countries is the budget, and in this country, the spine serves only to energize the peoples of Serbia, enormously high taxes, fill the register and preserve the Serbian government, which has already started to crack and break.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16079	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic, and then by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. No, we're writing the time as soon as you're done, and I'm only shutting down when the speaker comes to the pay phone, so don't worry, you won't get hurt. I care about you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16080	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, now there is no Minister, there is no Prime Minister, but still, we have today a budget which, as in 2001, was created so that it has a deficit. This time there are 38 billion dinars of deficit, and I find it very interesting that this deficit issue will be resolved, given the income structure we have and where it's obvious that based on the profit tax, we won't be able to finance more than 2% of the budget. Does this mean that the government doesn't count at all with the launch of economic capacity, and from what Mr. Djindjic said, it obviously doesn't count. So we're counting on foreign loans or donations with which we're going to settle the interest of about 23 billion dinars in this budget, based on foreign loans of about 16.5 billion dinars. Does that mean that these donations and loans work on the principle of "the godfather gave, the godfather and took." This is obviously where the question arises whether this government will also be present in 2003, when the time comes for these loans, which we will raise this year or next for the resolution of the budget deficit, to return. To all of you, and I would prefer to ask the Minister as a question, is it possible that only 10% of the planned privatisation funds are intended for the Development Fund? So, not a billion dinars, and at the same time we have the cost of a billion-dollar business trip and 135 million dinars. Is it normal for one budget to be so conceived that by selling our businesses, we finance current consumption, including business trips? Is it normal for us to have a budget that is one of the most profitable, i.e. more promising industries, such as tourism and which is obviously our comparative advantage, to help with only 25 million dinars or not full 800,000 marks, which says a colleague from not knowing which order, 25 million old dinars; and that we can talk about capacity building in those companies that will be restructured, and we don't even have a list of enterprises that will be restructured; we don't know how the government is trying to solve the issue of unemployed, and she says that based on the restructuring of companies will be between 60 and 80,000. Is it normal for us to come up with a budget so we're actually showing ourselves that in 2002, no new employee will be employed, because the government says we're going to have an extra 80,000 workers, but we're supposed to be able to get about as much employment as we're out of a job. What about the army, with hundreds of thousands of young people waiting at labour market offices to get a job? I can understand that the government doesn't need to run business, that it doesn't need to replace directors in businesses, but it has to create an environment, really create an ambience in which the funds of privatisation, first of all, will be used to launch these dead economic capacities and then create conditions to sell at a future sale, tender or auction, at a significantly higher price. It's not like the government has the only mission to stop this little business of doing what it's doing, so we can sell it for one dollar or one mark, as it's sometimes trying to say symbolically that the price at which we're going to sell our businesses isn't important. Is it normal to have two billion? and 700 million dinars of investment for the needs of the MUP, of which two billion. and 60 million dinars for equipment, and 700 million dinars for construction facilities, to find out ourselves that, based on NATO bombing alone, only damage was done to a $190 million broken equipment or over 12 billion worth of equipment. The dinars, and we have neither dignity nor courage nor strength to place a bar account in that amount for 2002. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, this unbalanced budget simply doesn't lead to good, and we'll be able to have a catastrophic situation in 2003, because we won't be able to keep raising loans to settle budget deficits without the economy standing or not working at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16081	The People's Messenger Miroljub Veljkovic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16082	I don't know what's in Mr Djindjic's profession, but I do know by economic theory when public spending goes beyond 50% of the social product that it's for every state administration not a sign for red light, but a sign for a complete alarm. At least Mr. Djelic should know. In this fiscal year, 2001, you planned public spending at the level of 10 billion. Marks. When I say public spending, I mean the republican budget, I mean the federal budget, the budgets of the municipalities. As you have charged the people this year, it is best known by the economy and the people themselves, and it will show you very quickly in the elections. For this fiscal year, in 2002 you plan to double public spending. It's just a republican budget of over seven billion. And when we add federal budgets and community budgets, it's about 20 billion. Marks. You plan to double it in a stable course, when it's obvious that the decline is economic activity and when it's obvious that the population has so poored last year with your racket that I'm simply wondering how you plan to fill that budget. In fact, the government of Zoran Djindjic and Minister Djelic go from three wrong hypotheses. The first is that economic activity will be revived, although the professional public and all indicators say it will not happen. The second wrong hypothesis is the one given to you by the Bundes Bank, that about the citizens of Serbia have 8 billion. Marks in your pockets. That's not true. And the third wrong hypothesis that you're going to be a big hole in the budget, 50 billion. Dinara, fill in the privatisation money, and you haven't been able to sell any kiosk so far, as well as the donation money. The U.S. administration told you how you'd get the money. So, by delivering live Serbian meat.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16083	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Vujic, and the following is the declared MP, Aleksandar Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16084	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's one definition, there's one saying that very faithfully reflects DOS, and it says, consistent in inconsistencies. I said that at the beginning of the year when we discussed the 2001 budget and I say that again when we are discussing the 2002 budget. If that's the case, I'll say it through the following parameters. In the planned 2001 budget, the current revenue should be 107 billion. The estimated expenditure should be 129 billion. The 20% deficit. However, we don't have a final bill for 2001 yet, but let's trust you. What's next year for 2002? The current income of 171 billion and the projected expenditure of 220 billion is projected. If the deficit for 2001 was about 20%, it is now almost 30%. He talks enough about DOS, he talks enough about the budget, how wasteful it is -- extremely wasteful. It's that you're consistent with inconsistencies. What's more indicative is that it shows and reflects the state of the DOS. The projected company profit tax for 2001 was two billion, and now four billion. From where, aman for nothing?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16085	The word is Aleksandar Vucic, followed by Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16086	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SRS parliamentary group did not demagoguely criticise the Serbian government's proposed budget. We're not the ones who are going to go out for this pay phone to say that you need to spend a lot more money on certain items and that you should finance everything that anyone likes so that all the appetites are satisfied. We have proposed to our amendments an incomparably restrictive budget, we have demanded even greater, incomparably higher savings, and we would reduce the budget to 123 billion. What we can't understand and what there's no explanation for, is where and why donations to NGOs -- 425 million. It is 425 million and donations to, say, sports, youth organisations and religious communities are about twice less - 292 million. Who are these women in black, who are these Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko and others who should be financed by Serbian citizens, and to teach them that neither Serbs nor Serbs are human, neither are Orthodox. I think the government of the Republic of Serbia should explain that. It would have to be because it has a commitment to citizens, because it takes that money from citizens, it takes money from citizens to fund such organisations. I don't know where these current reserves come from if we have a budget deficit and how that's even possible. That should have been said to a representative of the government of the Republic of Serbia, but since I have no more time, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16087	The word has Bozidar Vucurovic, followed by Stevo Dragisic, who is not present. Then the People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16088	Our dear Minister Bozidar Djelic, his abilities are rare, there is no secret or fraction for him, because he was learning the budget from his aunt; while he was walking with her, picking fruit, buying onions, experts on the budget, from Pinosava and Surduk. When he learned from them, he came without an excise stamp, to fix our budget situation, with the help of a major drinking scam; and the one who imported it, to sort out financial opportunities, apparently just messing around, drinking knowledge here is not worth it. A letter came to me ten days ago, to be handed over to Minister Djelic, curiosity is, I admit, a flaw, but I had to examine it; and in it it writes - please inform God, when the tax comes to reading, we only have one skin, and only once can he yell. Tell God that there are measures, that kidnapping impulses keep quiet, no one can scream at a smart sheep, no one knows how to cut a sheep's hair; and tell him, when he skins us, the chances are tight, we have to do something else, or we have to grow ducks and geese, or we have to plant the rod; and tell him not to joke, when he's giving us his tentacles, we have no money, we've given him everything instead of money, he'll get the rods.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16089	The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16090	After the bitter presentation of the 2001 reform budget of reform efforts, nothing would happen, because poverty, hunger, despite your expensive hands and cry for promised donations, your employers and associates would have nothing to do with it. Serbia must be ruled by that law - trust in and trust in its beaks. Every host is pleased if his family is fed and trained, which means they're satisfied. But today's host of Serbia, Zoran Djindjic, could not be satisfied because 2/3 of Serbian citizens live" at the beginning." You destroyed the economy, you shut down the factories, you left the workers out of work. In addition to the 2002 budget, how restrictive, unreal, some branches are again in a privileged position, compared to those produced, which is the village.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16091	The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16092	The 2001 budget singled out 500m dinars for southern Serbia. The funds were personally held by Nebojsa Covic, according to his personal opinion and criteria, which are known only to him, Prime Minister and Minister Vladan Batic. Of these 500 million, 30% of the funds immediately ended up in the pockets of the DOS government's individuals, 65% invested in the middle where the majority of the Shiparian population is, and only 5% in the villages and the infrastructure where Serbs live. The involvement of the government and individuals in the government can be easily proven if we all know that the most difficult situation in southern Serbia, that is, in the Pcinj County, is becoming the most economically difficult every day. How is it possible that the most responsible official in the district is a volunteer? Are we becoming a volunteer state? It is known that the head of the district is appointed by the Serbian government and that the duty cannot be carried out voluntarily. Mr. Djindjic has appointed a DHSS representative with Mr. Batic as head of the district, who is volunteering for the post. He's doing it by getting a little money and a car, visiting the county and selling the books of Belgrade publishers. When will the Phinehas District have a permanent chief, when is it known that the problems there are the biggest?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16093	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16094	Ladies and gentlemen, at this session last week, the finance minister promised to deliver a budget report for the first eleven months of this year. However, the minister has deceived us, as has been the case so far. It would be much easier on the basis of this report to make comparisons with this proposal and to reach certain conclusions. The amount of the budget is too high, we've already heard it here, and we from the SRS keep saying it over and over again, and in this short time I'm just going to look back on the revenue side of the budget. On the revenue side, 180 billion dinars are planned for next year, from the original incomes, from taxes paid by our citizens and by the economy. If we compare that to the 2001 budget, where we have the same income of 107 billion dinars, we see that the increase is 75%. If inflation is about 40%, this means that the real growth of these revenues is about 35%, which means that our citizens are going to have to allocate a lot more tax money this year than it was in 2001.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16095	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16096	The draft budget for 2002 comes to us from the irresponsible, heavily compromised government of the Republic of Serbia, whose Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, who behaves according to the people's "sit of hunger, doesn't believe" because that he has real insight into how Serbian citizens live, would not expose his budgetary philosophy to us in a completely inappropriate and certainly offensive way for every citizen of Serbia, and especially those that Djindjic's government left without a job -- over 15,000 flag workers, the other night those who are employed in FAP, and 800,000 of those you intend to fire. Public spending is not under control at all, according to Minister Djelic, because the government is doing everything it does in secret. I'll remind you, Mr. Djelic, and that's all I can do in this one-minute presentation to tell you, that Mr. Tomislav Nikolic has asked you for a report from the pay phone five times -- how you spent your budget in 2001. Explain to us that we are explaining to the citizens of Serbia how you are a wasteful government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16097	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16098	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's hard to comment on and analyze this budget, because we have no record of how many employees there are? I will only say that Minister Djelic has been ignored for a year, but that workers and employees have nothing to do with ignoring him. On the other hand, the Public Revenue Administration takes 5,220,000,000 dinars from the budget and is intended as a beneficiary for it. But for 15 ministries, for employees only in those ministries, 745m are foreseen. Therefore, the administration is tearing the skin out of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16099	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16100	Dear Members of the People, in this budget, I will look back on only one item -- listening to the Prime Minister, we have heard about almost all Serbs living in Serbia, except Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. So, we've forgotten one population, the Serbian people, because if it was possible to help the pensioners and the workers and the unemployed, there are refugees and displaced persons on the budget, where is the item, for the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija? By listing this entire budget, there can be no word of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, unless you mean this item that has been set for Nebojsa Covic, which will be misused, and the Serbs have been left behind, to live and suffer in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16101	With this presentation, the SRS parliamentary group used its time for discussion. Is anyone else answering their word? Here you go, MP Dragan Tomic, and you don't have a business break for an hour, but it doesn't say the time. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16102	According to the Rules of Procedure, the break is set for an hour. It is common in this parliament to give a break in two hours. We haven't made a decision to extend the work. I ask you to vote on it, to make a decision. Article 89.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16103	Article 81, to help you: "Sessions of the National Assembly are held between 10.00 and 18.00 hours, with an hour's interruption, unless the National Assembly, exceptionally, decides otherwise for certain days." It doesn't say an hour's break has to be 14 hours. We're just gonna move it for a little while. Are you asking to vote? Yeah. I put to the vote the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which was pointed out by MP Dragan Tomic. For 43, against 110, the abstention of three, was not voted 29, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision not to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do any of the authorized participants in the debate appear in principle for a word? Here you go, Mr. Tomic, as representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16104	I ask you to appease the People's Messengers. Gentlemen, in the second exhibition of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, we heard a more detailed explanation of certain positions of the Republic of Serbia's 2002 budget. The terms used have been that a substance has been used in the past ten years. You've been using these ten years here all the time, because you're used to speaking myting, and for reasons of justifying the way you run and finance and economic policy in the following year; using these terms you're trying to replace the thesis all the time. You have to report to this assembly, because it's the end of the year and you have to say what you're going to do next year. Of all the things you said, you said you'd fight to preserve stability. From what you've said so far, it's about quasi-stability. Here is the term used - the people are called poor people, and these are pensioners, social givings, etc. This people aren't poor, and they can't be poor. He'll get what's rightfully theirs. You used the railroad story as well. It has been said that the government is a trafficker and that it will use its right of traffickers in this year as well, businesses are trains that need to crash, and the government will help them crash. I have to say that an inadequate terminology, populist terminology, is used to try to explain this budget. The truth is, everything is visible in front of us. I have to say, there's no explanation for the $540 million deficit. It was given parafiscally and apparently that there are still some hidden reserves in the budget, and whether it's in excises or in sales tax, we don't know that. We'll probably know when the final budget bill for 2001 is delivered and we'll have opportunities if all positions are displayed. The terms are being used and $150m is being talked about, or $10.8 billion in privatisation that will be included in the deficit financing. Please, the serious economy of the serious state, the funds of privatisation, primarily, into economic and consolidation, in the development of new capacities, in hiring a new workforce, not covering budget deficits. Serbia's industry, you said openly: there is no money for you, you won't get anything, banks go bankrupt. It's gonna be rescheduled some times, and the question is which one. Foreign banking will take place on the business scene of Serbia. It's not classic foreign banking, it's domestic banking with foreign names. These days we've had flashes, when there's been a slight power shortage, he says -- there's no production capacity in that area. It's true it doesn't. We've been in sanctions for eight to nine years, we've been bombed on that basis, and there's been significant damage. I ask you gentlemen, if the economy falls which foreign banks are going to build tomorrow a power plant that is necessary to Serbia; that there are no more deficits, that we don't import electricity, because if we do it for the next five or six years, we're going to spend one thermo power plant, at least. So, that banking will give money to build capacity in Kolubara. So we've also condemned that to mild decay. Budget donations, those of 126 million dollars, or 9 billion dinars. Furthermore, loans from World Bank 13.14 billion dinars or 77m dollars or 5.5 billion dinars from the National Bank of Yugoslavia and from business banks, that is the 540m deficit. Here at the pay phone you tell the minors there's no deficit. You have sources. You have no sources, because the economy in stagnation, in decline, you won't give money to the economy, there won't be any exports. When I mentioned the term "export", please, the export is in terrible decline. If you look at the structure of goods that are in export, exports are semi-factory, raw materials, few finished products are exported. Exchange with Slovenia is a deficit. These are the contracts we sign, signed by this government. It was $200 million. The payment deficit with Slovenia is 167 million, and we exported the goods to 37 million goods. Please, gentlemen, when we look at the structure of these goods, someone here reintroduces brotherhood and unity to Serbia. Just don't make it cost us any more. If we add up the monthly deficits, then I think this year we've had a loss of one -- two billion dollars; or deny me from this pay phone. So when we look at the continent, we won't have growth in production in the economy. We're going to have budget quasi-finance, we're not going to have new capacities, labour employment won't be. It's going to be from that part of FAP in Priboj, where 1,800 people waited for a solution not to work anymore, so some of it's going to get in somewhere. So there's nothing for the youth. So when we add the essence, there may be desire and optimism, it's not slow to you, but these are the facts we have to face. You have no answers for these facts, nor do you want to give answers, nor are you ready to do anything further. You told the Serbian businessmen - you can have a chance, but only one, perhaps the other will not be given to you. So these are very large facts, and I'm sure when you enter banks now, the question is what can you find in banks. Throwing it out of the O.R. There is one who warns me. I know exactly how much time I have. I know you're not interested in this, you're in a hurry for lunch, but we need to talk. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I warn you that these are facts that stand and know citizens. Therefore, take care, as this budget will obviously be the recession budget, not the reform budget. This will be a budget that will not improve the material position of the population -- neither will pay. If salary growth is projected to be between four and six percent, and inflation is 20%, the difference, everyone smart knows how to calculate; there will be no salary growth in education, in healthcare too. These are minimal indicators that will not reflect the population's payload power, will not even reflect the population's purchasing power. I recall again, not the average salary in Serbia 200 marks, the average salary in Serbia is below 150 marks. When you take away a warm meal, a regress and other supplements, you can well conclude that profit is not more than 4.5 thousand dinars. So when you were talking about 80 marks, you could buy something for 10 marks. Now at 30 or 40 you can buy the same stuff. You have to speak to real parameters, to those who are paid, to whom something is bought, to whom the family is financed and supported. (President: Time. ) Therefore, this is not a critical tone with the desire to be criticised, but to bring out the real facts and not to throw away Serbian citizens' fog. You're not any traffickers, you're the Serbian government. If you can't, step aside, we're going to a new election - so there's someone who can.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16105	Are any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I am voting on the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2002, in principle. For 131 against 51, the abstentions were not voted 10, a total of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly passed the draft budget law for 2002. I'm setting a break until 3:30. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please, in order to determine the quorum, set up your identification cards. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We can keep working. Since we adopted the draft budget law for 2002, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since the Legislative Committee has not delivered a report, and the Government has an opinion on amendments submitted to the bill, I remind you that, gentlemen, may we continue to work... [[Sagar.]] Since the Legislative Committee has not delivered a report, and the Government considers amendments to the draft law, I remind you that under Article 136(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly may decide to consider the bill without them or to set a new deadline within which they are required to do so. I propose that the National Assembly decide to consider the bill without a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. National MP Aleksandar Vukic, meanwhile, is looking for a word. I put the vote in the procedure. (Employer Alexander Vukic: Before that, I answered the word. I put it to the vote, Mr. Wolfie. (National Ambassador Alexander Vukic: Before that, I called, don't do that.) For 106, against 14, with five abstentions, 25, 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided to consider the bill without a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP is Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I answered in time expecting the President of the National Assembly to give me a word, because I wanted to intervene and warn you not to do what we did and to tell you that we needed the government's opinion on the amendments, and I wanted to point out a few things to you. I'll tell you why a stupid violation of the Rules of Procedure was made, not just for the sake of a Rules of Procedure you don't respect, but for something that's incomparably more important. We had one night to write the amendments. It turned out that we could do two nights because the simple search didn't begin immediately, but one night essentially, and it was the great Serbian Orthodox glory of St. Nicholas. We did it. We've submitted the amendments. It's been so many days. We expected the government to respect the MPs at least so much that it would deliver its written opinion on the amendments submitted by the MPs. If the MPs can, whose duty and role it is to control the Government of the Republic of Serbia through the National Assembly as an executive body, the Government must (not - can not, but - must) show basic respect for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and deliver its opinion on these amendments. How you will now plead on the amendments - by one way or another the minister will nod his head, and we have not received any opinion. We didn't get the government's opinion. No Legislative Committee reports. Of course, he can, he can do anything. You can vote right now that we're not talking about amendments at all. He can do anything. You can say -- the budget in particular has been adopted. But it has nothing to do with legal logic or legal practice. I urge you, Madam President, that you no longer do this kind of thing, that you get the majority's trust so that you can make warnings and that you can carry out whatever it takes, so sometimes you do it as quickly as you've done it now, that you don't do it, in the future, look before you put on the vote who are in the conference room. In addition to raising my hand politely, I even tried, and I would say in a normal voice, to warn you in time that I answered the word, but you didn't want to register it because it was important to make such an illegal decision, to get rid of the problem in this way and to tell the Government - you don't have any need, no more worries, to answer to the MPs, we don't need the Government's opinion, we don't need a report from the Legislative Committee, but I simply ask you not to do it in the future, otherwise what the National Assembly will do.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16108	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16109	I know, it's cold, a little less than yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16110	Mr. Vucicou, the session has been convened in accordance with Article 147(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Article 80(2) As for your observations that the Government has not delivered an opinion, I warn you that there is a Article 160 of Rule 3 in the Rules of Procedure which reads: "If the Government does not give an opinion on the draft law within a specified time limit, the bill will also be considered without the Government's opinion." Therefore, I believe there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you're not satisfied, we can put it to a vote. We can't compromise. Do you want me to put it to a vote? I am voting on the remarks made by MP Alexander Vukic. For 56, against 112, two abstentions, were not voted 20 out of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision not to hurt the Rules of Procedure. By considering the amendments submitted to the Bill of Finance, the Committee of Finance concluded that the proposals of the MPs for the addition of new members were: Sreten Mitrović - 9b, Đure Lazić - 9v, Rajko Baralić - 9g, Živanka Radovančev - 9d, Slobodan Pavlovic - 9d, Ljobir Mucic - 9e, Marko Ćulibrka - 9z, together Zoran Radovanović and Branko Ružić - 9z, Velimir Živojinović - 9i, Živodarka Dacin - 9j, Miomir Ilic - 9k and Đure Lazić - 9c, are not in line with the National Assembly's Business Office, that in this form they cannot be accepted, i.e. i.e.e. they cannot be considered at the meeting of the National Assembly. I am voting on the conclusion of the Finance Committee that these amendments, which are proposed to add new members, are not being considered at the National Assembly session. For 126, against 54, the abstentions were not voted by 11, a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this conclusion of the Finance Committee. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. A group of 21 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 1st amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted the amendment. The amendment will be explained by MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16111	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group has made a completely new projection of the Republic of Serbia's budget for several reasons in just one night. The first reason is that as MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, we wanted to show how we would really do it, in order to make it, rather than just unfairly and incorrectly criticise the government. Ours was to show how this budget would look if it could be decided by Serbian radicals, what would change in it, and to show the consistency and consistency of our criticism. In this amendment, we have shown what the revenue side should look like to ensure, to be from real income, to be consistent with what the government's representatives told us about. They told us that inflation was below 30%, they said something that was unrealistic, that it was expected for 2002 4.7%, and we have to count that planned budget revenues from real sources should not be greater than 35% compared to planned budget revenues for the previous, or still ongoing 2001. What we have been looking for and what we have achieved with this amendment and why we invite you to support this amendment of the MPs of the SRS. We have reduced the amounts here in current revenues, I will explain why, and I will explain how and why we have balanced budgetary revenues and expenditures and what it is that we would throw out of the budget on the spending side, which is what is needlessly burdening the budget of the Republic of Serbia at this point. We in the Serbian Radical Party felt that income from the income tax of citizens instead of 44 billion and 816 million should be 31 billion and 372 million, and from the corporate tax, instead of 4.572,000,000, to be 3,200,400,000 dinars; from sales taxes, instead of 67 billion 44.143,941,000 dinars. It is precisely in line with our commitment from a few days ago to reduce excise duty, to reduce sales tax, because only this kind of restrictive budget, which the SRS advocates, can we do something to increase production, i.e. primarily to disbursement of our economy - those of which are the most charged and those most taken. We did not ask in this amendment any moment for you to add new items in which you will pay additional requirements, additional income to individual social groups, because this would be illogical and would be incorrect on our part. What we're looking for is to throw out those donations that are completely unnecessary, which are not in line with any side laws that some others have called for, such as donations to NGOs, and that's a huge amount of money. When you have 425,000 who stand out for NGOs, then it seems to me that someone doesn't know how and why everything has to be invested, how and how it works. In this draft budget where we have implemented one rationalisation (I am talking about our radical budget proposal), we have thrown out 22,000,000,000, as much as you have allocated for interest, and here I am now asking a few questions. The first question is - what are the interest rates that have reached, if we have received loans that you otherwise called donations which are not correct (from the Latin word "donatio", which means gift, not loans). So this is something else, a green business. If these loans haven't arrived, and we've heard we've got graces -- periods 5, 7, 10 and 15, which are the interest we're paying off today. Whose debts we pay off and why we pay off something we don't have to pay off. We don't have to pay, it's not our debt, they'd have to pay us, pay us some other things, like war damage, not this. Next, we threw out the liquid and permanent reserves. You have a projected budget deficit of 40 billion, so it's actually going to be bigger. You have a budget deficit of 40 billion, and you're talking about a current four billion reserve. As far as possible, there is neither legal nor economic logic. That's why we from the SRS have arrived and had plenty of time unlike the government, Mrs. Micic, which you don't understand or you won't understand, which was very difficult to write five sentences, whether you accept or...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16112	Mr. Wolfie, I warn you on time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16113	The weather's cold, it's a little warmer than yesterday, and I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16114	We heard that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16115	And I've heard about it in time and every time I go out, but I'm counting, when you're telling me something about time, let me tell you how it is out there. So, when the government didn't have time to respond with 6 or 7 sentences, we were able to make this budget projection, and I'm sure in this way we could contribute to the growth of production in the coming year, the reduction of costs and the adoption of an uncomparedly real, objective and better budget than proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16116	Is anyone else answering for word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments tabled by MP Aleksandar Vukic on Article 1. For 49, against 132 abstentions, there was no vote of 12, of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 21 MPs of the SRS group submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment, and the amendment will explain Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16117	Ladies and gentlemen, as we have heard, the SRS parliamentary group had only 24 hours at its disposal to thoroughly implement the new budget structure proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; we have indeed done this thoroughly. Article 2 speaks in fact about harmonising budget expenditures with budget revenues, as referred to in Article 1 we have already heard this. I would like to say something more about this -- that, first of all, the SRS parliamentary group has made sure that those budget expenditure items are estimated in that direction which will be profitable and beneficial for the users of this budget, but also to disburse budget expenditures by users. So, for example, the economic classification 42, with the name - the use of goods and services, refers to some incomprehensible items that the government is proposing here. One of these (can't explain everything) is the cost of business trips of 1,135,000 dinars, so you can ask what happened last year when these costs for business trips were five times lower. Whether it's the Stanko Subotic's plane, or whether it's necessary for the government to drive a little bit more along other expensive planes. Also, there is an item in the same economic classification -- specialized services, amounting to 4.19,000,000, which will say that these funds plan to fund those agencies or those services that only the government knows about, and that is, in fact, the transparency of the government. There's no realisation, even though it's about specialized services. What services will this be, and what benefits will those who receive these services benefit? Whether these are profitable organisations or some NGOs, or some foreign advisers who should be taking money from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Also, it falls into the eyes that permanent current reserves in the budget are quite illogical, given that the government is forecasting a budget deficit. Then how to find constant and running budget reserves on the bulky side of the budget. It is nowhere in the world, in any budget law in the world such a single item could survive. Also, it's very symptomatic and I'd like to pay off foreign interest. Foreign interest of 15 billion. And 612 million are simply unacceptable. They are an unacceptable team before the government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, as well as Finance Minister Djelic, promised great money and donations, so we believe that foreign interest should be served from these donations, out of the 6.5 billion. dollars or some other means, which the Government here in front of the MPs so transparently promises. Also, you can talk about subsidies. The subsidies provided for by the Government are considered not to be well-scheduled. We believe that most of these subsidies should have agriculture, which later in the amendments, submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, we will be more specific about positions. So we made sure that budget expenditures were consistent with budget revenues and we made sure that it was restrictive and thriftful, not wasteful, as the government suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16118	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? The word has Tomislav Nikolic, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16119	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, for many of you who have no interest in the budget at all, Article 2 refers to the expenditure of the SRS Parliamentary Group, trying to amend to Article 2, in fact, to make the government do what it promised us when it was elected, which is that all revenues and expenditures go beyond budgets and budget expenditures predict what will be spent from the budget. By reading Article 2 you would conclude that next year the state will cost 219 billion. And 516 million dinars. However, if you add 14,838,675,000 extra budget revenues to this, the question is, how is it that the government that condemned the previous methodology, because everything is not transparent and everything is not shown through the revenue and expenditure side, why is it that the government suddenly has 14,838,675,000 funds that will be charged and paid, and that they are practically not in budget spending? Of course, I suppose the government has calculated that the Assembly will be able to discuss the law on the budgetary system and that the whole budget explanation is based on the adoption of the law on the budgetary system. The whole classification of revenue - expenditure was carried out under some law on the budgetary system (which will probably one day be on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia) and so on. gfs methodology, which has not yet been adopted by any law, and the budget offers us such a methodology and classification. We're based here on what's real, our amendment doesn't foresee a reduction in employees' salaries, but that's why it predicts a reduction in the many costs that the government ran into, I would easily say by order or order. How else do you interpret that donations to NGOs next year will be 424,800,000 dinars - regardless of what the government gives one authority, the wording that this will cover expenditure mainly through the Ministry of Social Affairs: The Alliance of Deaf and Deaf - should not, it is a very small amount; the largest amount in this is the Red Cross of Serbia. The question is, what is the Red Cross of Serbia, what kind of organisation is it, and who is obliged to finance it? Why would the Government of the Republic of Serbia, why would the citizens of the Republic of Serbia finance an international organisation? The organisation has its own revenues, has its own budget and this organisation is funding various activities worldwide. What would it be called the Red Cross if we financed it from the budget? We'll give our name, so no one else can tie us to an international organization that we finance. We'll call it aid to the vulnerable Serbia, so we'll split the funds from the budget, but it won't be called the Red Cross. Because the Red Cross is an international organisation, and the international organisation is funded by international rules and by international means; and we are not giving funds to an organization that will be called international and practically we finance our citizens from our resources, and that turns out to be a Red Cross that is an international organization. In Article 3, I will further explain where a certain percentage of income disappears, which is not shown at all and why it does not appear. I don't understand that the budget, which I believe is 19% deficited, has a current reserve of four billion. I suppose there's a irrational and a rational explanation for that, too. If we can only sum up in one sentence, this is an amendment that is realistically speaking about how much budget expenditure will be with current rates of taxes, contributions and with current interventions from citizens. This amendment, of course, does not treat, as the cloud government should neither treat any revenue that has its own name, but does not have a basis or even some planned value.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16120	The word is from Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, as representative of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16121	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to help you now so that we do not have similar dilemmas during the debate in detail on the other amendments that are in the procedure. As far as funding NGOs is concerned, you're right, and you've actually mentioned all those NGOs that are mostly seeking this kind of financial assistance and support from the state. However, there is nothing new in this, I will remind you that there are laws under which the Republic Government, and therefore the DOS parliamentary group, is obliged to carry out such a form of funding; I will quote to you the budget from the period of your rule which has also identically responded to the same obligation through the allocation of funds, for example, the Ministry of Finance - in the Rehabilitation and Protection Fund from elementary disasters, for the implementation of the Law on the Development of the Republic of Serbia, and then, among other things, the payment of credit and purchase of securities of value. And here we come to the cost of Serbia's Red Cross of 16 million dinars. It's just about the Ministry of Finance. As for the ministry of labour, martial arts and social affairs, it also dealt with financing the same forms of organisation. I think it's clear that we owe, in such a way, and under these circumstances, we still try to find financial resources to help those who ask us to help. Of course, it does not exclude another form of inflow into these NGOs, we do not interfere in such a thing, but we respond to our obligation in the same way that previous authorities did. So we look after the Red Cross of Serbia and all other NGOs, under which we are obliged to give them this kind of attention, based on the applicable legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16122	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Dragan Tomic, as representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16123	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, we have three figures of next year's budget -- first and foremost, which is said to be real, is 180 million and 704 thousand, the second of 219 billion 516 thousand and the third is 234 billion 354 million and 675 thousand dinars. When you put it in a combination, it is also difficult for one who understands a little bit, and for one who does not understand, to capture the types of income -- how do they come to them, how are they classified, to which expenditure, and to whom will it be added? If, in the prime minister's exposé, we had an argument that there would be no growth in production, then we will have one stagnation in production, and then it is said that income tax in the following year will be increased compared to this year, in which it is achieved by 28 billion, the following year, and in 2002, 44 billion and 816 million are expected. They're simply incredible combinations from which the percentage of growth is derived. On the one hand, it is claimed - it will not be, and on the other hand, we will have that income. The SPS parliamentary group does not mind that the Red Cross of Serbia is financed, if funds for refugees and others are formed, that is fine, but we do not mind that other NGOs are involved in this story, because their function is not legally defined, is not in the interest of the state and has no the same structure, nor is it doing anything special for the state. Therefore, I think that there should have been a more critical approach here, give less resources, because when we make sure that NGOs have 424 million, and there for youth, sports and religious organisations in total 290 and some million, I think it should make a different comparison, given the successes of our athletes in international sports, we should reroute funds, at least when citizens pay. What NGOs do, mostly only has a personal interest, not a total citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16124	Since no one has answered the floor again, I would like to put to the vote the amendments submitted to Article 2. For 51, against 138, the abstentions were not voted by 13, a total of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment, which will explain MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16125	Members of the SRS have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Correction was made at point 1, which states that budgets of 170 billion and 704 million are adjusted to a figure of 123,106,941,000 dinars, with gross national income growth of 4.5% and inflation of 30-35%, as Minister Djelic said, and the prime minister in his exposé. So that would be a real budget. All that's beyond that is a wasteful budget and a bloated budget. We kept the 38 billion and 812 million deficit in that amount, believing that the government could find a real cover for the deficit, but not as predicted by Article 2. The government intends to cover the deficit from privatisation, amounting to nearly 11 billion. You still haven't privatised anything under this new law, you probably will in the next year, but I remind you - and only once you can sell one company, that it's a one-time income, and that the privatisation funds should be returned to the economy in terms of investment, not to be used for consumption. You're counting on donations of nine billion and 90 million dinars. Those donations, of course, are more about "long stick," but that's only 300 million marks. I'll remind you that NATO bombings cost them $45 billion, that we received about $750 million of aid in goods from China and Russia during 1999 and 2000, in terms of oil, gas, construction materials, electrical equipment, and that that year, after the war, we had electricity throughout the year, and during the winter period. You expect funds from credit, from international financial institutions, of 13 billion and 420 million dinars. Those loans, of course, someone has to pay back. We'll get them back. And instead of asking for war damage to be charged, and by international law, no one can deny it to us, except ourselves, we are begging here and looking for loans that, of course, we have to pay back. The fourth item, which would serve to cover the deficit, is loans from the National Bank of Yugoslavia and domestic business banks of 5 billion and 460 million. What business banks, I ask, is this Beobanka, Jugobanka, Investbanka, which Dinkic prepares for liquidation? We know why Investbank's being liquidated -- because 90% of the Elektroprivreda debt is at Investbank because Zorke-Shabac's debt, Sartida and JAT is also at Investbank. When Investbank is liquidated, debts from these companies have been liquidated and then sold without any burden. There will be no loans, except for the NBJ, but given that you have projected a return of interest of 6,176 million dinars, the conclusion is that in the course of last year you had huge loans from the NBJ, which can be nothing more than a primary show, and that it is covered up as a budget deficit from last year. As a result, the SRS believes the budget should be 123 billion plus a budget deficit of 38 billion, which would be filled in from real revenues. These real incomes were biaccess and sales tax on that part of smuggled tobacco that you're just not going to charge. The smuggling of tobacco requires the support of political parties or the very top of the government. If you wanted a survey committee in this congregation, we would certainly have gotten to the point of smuggling tobacco. In this way, we would make it very easy to make up for these 38 billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16126	Time. Anybody else answer for a word? Please, MP Tomislav Nikolic as representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16127	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm only going to say one sentence to comment on the review of the revenue we've finally received from the Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Republic Budget Sector. Let me inform you, both you and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the revenues the state has planned since 15 December have been transferred. Most likely this year, about 15 billion dinars will be transferred and the state should extend its gratitude to the citizens of Serbia, to return these 15 billion overpaid revenues to the citizens of Serbia, because the budget sought one figure and received another. Instead of such gratitude to the citizens of Serbia, for fulfilling their obligations, the government of the Republic of Serbia is giving us the highest percentage of its revenues this year. He says, we were abroad, we didn't know how the citizens paid for it. Now we see that income tax is paid on a regular basis -- we're going to raise that by 55%; they're paying a regular sales tax, and we're going to raise that by 94%; what they don't pay, it doesn't matter to us that much. It is obvious that they have been found for Serbian citizens where they can skin them a little bit more. The SRS envisioned Amendment No 1. so that total revenues with non-tax revenues could be around 123 billion dinars. On that basis, she gave the amendment to Article 3 which we would like to schedule. Article 3 in the draft budget law is more careful to the reader. Article 3 argues that the budget consists of an income of 180 billion and a deficit of 38 billion, and would turn out to be a budget of 219 billion; just a little further, on page 5 in the sum of the Republic's budget, the actual amount appears, which is 234.354.675,000. These 219 billion have been increased by out-of-bududge revenues of 14,838,675,000 dinars that do not go into the budget and have no control at all, with stable sources of income and will be manipulated during the year. These are the revenues from the High Commissioner for Refugees - 520 million, revenue earned from the original activities of consumer units, means the beneficiary of the budget - 11 billion 318 million dinars, part of the funds of the court's fees of two billion dinars and income from the water industry of a billion dinars. Article 3 should read, according to the bill, that the 2002 budget is 234,354,675,000 dinars, so much will be spent if the budget is met with 100%. This is a figure to be put in relation to both the planned figure for 2001 and the figure reached for 2002. In that budget, the deficit increases to nearly 19 billion loans alone. The deficit is projected to be covered by 10 billion 842 million dinars of privatisation. What is this estimate, who informed us here what jobs have been done, what bids have been made, which the tender sale has been brought to an end, what the amount of funds is, how someone gets to those 10 billion 842 million dinars. Estimated values are rounded up. This is some exact value, it's almost gone, so in hundreds of thousands of dinars, someone tells us what the revenue from privatisation is going to be. Income from donations of 9,090 million dinars. (President: Time. ) From the loan, I end up from the international financial institutions of 13 billion 420 million, which is what I am very afraid of. From a loan from the National Bank of 5,460 million, which I fear most. I am probably, with the exception of Bata Zivojinovic, the longest in the National Assembly. I've heard stories like this and about how the budget deficit will be covered, about how we'll get a loan from this, a loan from that, and even from the National Bank, we'll get a loan. That's the basis of inflation. The government of the Republic of Serbia didn't cover it, although we have to calculate exactly...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16128	I'm warning you of a time-out, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16129	The government of the Republic of Serbia did not cover its budget by 19%. That's a terrible amount, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Someone should be worried about this by now and start on their heads. You positively surprise me, Mrs. Micic. I'm surprised you haven't given me a warning yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16130	I give my word to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16131	I'd just like to explain a few things. First of all, as far as anxiety is concerned, there should be no fear, this is the first time in 12 years that we have public finances that are under control. I'm surprised by those who said I'd run public finances a year ago, and that's not that far. That's when 40% of all incomes went through special accounts, when the bills were made without innkeepers in the stock reserves, when there was a huge dubiosis in the EPS, in NIS, when it came to these public enterprises to take over international credits, and knowing very well that they would never be able to reconcile with what these public enterprises were selling; when we had the issue of bonds so that they could allegedly settle pensions, through the payment of electricity, without providing income for the same, at the same time in one dynamic, and thus made another account without the innkeepers. If there was any fear then, instead of saying hope and a positive shift, this time with this budget, we'd have everything on our hands. For the first time in 2001, all revenues were shown in the budget, as we abolished all dedicated fees and special accounts. We united everything that was excise, compensation, taxes and what was the right thing to do, and that was excise, sales tax, etc. If we start with revenue, we deliver the implementation of this budget on the revenue side. This is where we establish that for the first time in 12 years of public finances, our fiscal system justifies what we expected of them. If money is something bigger, it's just because inflation is a percentage above what was planned. Here you can see a great success, where with this reform of the fiscal system we've captured just as much as expected. Of course, when we look at different lines, you can find that success was greater or smaller, in various ways. You see, as far as corporate profit tax is concerned, he's something bigger than expected. It's still, and that's the bad side of our fiscal system, a small income in the budget. As for excises, they're according to plan, but for shades they're below what was expected and how much they should be, given how much inflation was, which percent more. We had success in fighting the smuggler, but not as much as we hoped. We still have to fight it. If you look at the 2002 proposal afterwards, it must not be forgotten that the first three months of these revenues were without fiscal reform. If you look at sales tax or excise duty, we must remember that it is without reform in the first three months. So, just painting what was three months ago or just what was the first nine months. By the way, in the proposal you have here, you do. First, the effect of the fiscal reform that continues. As far as sales tax is concerned, there is no increase in the rate (a day ago you voted for the elimination of the tax on fresh food and medicines), we already have a continuation of the effects of this fiscal reform, which is much better and in a simple way covering what needs to be covered. You also have an effect with excises (which you voted the same a few days ago), which is an increase in the excise on gasoline - for roads, for cigarettes - half for health and education, and half for the budget, and nothing else. The third thing that's not mentioned here, that's what's scheduled, and as far as the transaction tax is concerned, if you look closely, in the income structure they represented about 8.2% this year, by December 15th. Next year it is expected to be less, because in case you don't adopt it, we're going to have to go to some rebalance of this budget, to cut that financial transaction tax by one-third. It will be in January as soon as the budget system law is passed. In case you don't adopt it, then we'll suggest something independent, of course not by regulation, not by the way that public finances were conducted before, but neatly, by law. This shows that we will already see a reduction in interest on our economy, a reduction in interest on consumer loans for our citizens. That's no reason to be afraid. It's a reason for a very great pleasure. Also, on the dispersal side. I don't know if there are many governments that go forward and without any legal obligation to meet the National Assembly and show much more detail than ever, not just what is budgetary, but the revenues of all these budget users, who for the first time in the history of Serbia's public finances, have shown their own revenues. Thus, we see the income of the Geodetic Institute, the income of the water industry, etc. This is the first time we have the most consolidated budget, it seems to me, not only in the region but in the wider region, which puts everything in one place in perspective. If these own revenues don't happen to be at the intended level, that doesn't mean that the budget will win. No, that means the expenses will be reduced by so much. In case, like this year (but we'll talk about it in a few minutes), some of the revenues, such as privatisation or donation or loans, are reduced, which I don't believe, at that point we'll cut the expenditure. Simply, printing money won't be a mess in public finances anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16132	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16133	Since I'm just one humble MP chosen by the people and I have only three minutes of time, I can't, as a minister chosen by anyone who knows who brought me here, to speak as much as I want. I just want to tell Mr. Secretary that in the last 10 years, no one has received a loan from abroad. It's one nebuloose to say that we forced the economy to take loans from abroad for the past 10 years, that they couldn't pay back. Minister, you just said that the economy is forced to take foreign loans. It may have been during Tito's time, but then you were in diapers. ( Bozidar Djelic: half a billion dollars. That's article 4, and I'm waiting for that fourth member for those half a million marks. What is there to tell the citizens of Serbia? I tried one way to tell them that, you did it the other way, but you don't finish the story. Now I'm asking you -- if this year it's been found that corporate profit tax is charged 50% more than planned, why don't you release the economy for those 50%, but you already spend it more collected? If one government makes a budget and says, "This is how much I need from this tax and charges 50% more, how come she gets to spend it?" I guess she has to come to the National Assembly first, ask for permission to spend more because she picked up more. But that's why we don't have the final budget bill for 2001 first, as is the order, so that only then, when we adopt the final budget account, do we adopt the 2002 budget. But, Mr. Minister, the numbers are inexorable. The figures for this budget you're planning say you're sure you'll make 180 billion revenue, and the expenditures will be 234 billion. Finance ministers, 53,650,675,000 of this budget is gone. You say you'll create them this year. I'm telling you it's absolutely impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16134	The word comes from MP Dragan Tomic, a representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16135	I must say that the SPS parliamentary group is absolutely against the fact that the funds collected from the privatisation are invested and that's how you cover the budget deficit. When the Privatisation Act is explained here, of the most responsible and most professional people, so it says - various experts, it is also told to the Serbian public that these funds will, above all, go to the economy to create new capacities, to employ new personnel, to return to municipalities (there it is said as a percentage, I think it is 15%), where the headquarters of these businesses, to invest in revitalising the economy or in opening new capacities. So, this violates the Privatisation Act, the money is still missing, it's all some kind of mirage, but you can see that if they come, they'll be invested in covering budget deficits. We say - this buys social peace in Serbia. So, the most valuable Serbian economy, what it did at the time of sanctions, what no sanctions could stop, what it did during the bombing, we'll cover it up to buy power. It can't be done and no economy in the world knows it. Furthermore, no one here will say, when you're not going to charge war damage, we know you can't even ask for that money, but what about our funds abroad? I don't know how much money there is abroad. It's not funny here at all, some say it's two and a half billion, someone says it's five. Are those funds frozen? Don't sweat it. You want to give that money too? If there are five billion, then I'm asking, and probably the authorities know or don't know -- are those funds frozen in foreign banks? If they're not frozen, do interest rates go to these funds in foreign banks and do we get those interest rates, does they pay us some money? If these funds are invested, since we know that these funds are not in accounts and someone is really keeping them frozen, they are not serving anyone in the budget reserve, they are turning them around and making profit, did someone confess to Serbia and pay dividends on that basis? That, gentlemen, is not funny. Here, Bogdanovic says it's funny. Very funny. So please answer those questions. That's what they earned, that's not us, that's not you, that's what you're saying they didn't do, that's what they did 50 years ago. What if they were, they were both our fathers and grandfathers, ours, and they made some money that someone's keeping there frozen. I ask the following - whether sanctions have been imposed on Serbia on this basis or not. Can't the money take it back? If he can, can he have them in the Serbian economy. Could the money come to Serbia's economy to serve to rehabilitate Serbian banks, Serbian businesses, to create new capacities and to employ a new workforce. When you answer those questions, then we will know that Serbia is no longer in sanctions, that there are no conditions for Serbia and that Serbia is indeed a free, democratic state that communicates with the whole world. Therefore, this Article 3 is absolutely nakarad if there is no answer to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16136	Thank you. I give my word to MP Cedomir Jovanovic as president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16137	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few questions are open. They are the result of either forgetfulness or unwillingness to seriously discuss the effects and results of decadent, long-standing activities within the government, whose harmful action we are trying to resuscitate today. So, the issue of borrowing is not only directed towards the West, but it's actually the consequence and arrangements that have been made with the states that you have defined as strategic partners of our society, and here I primarily think of the Russian Federation and China. We owe those countries about half a billion dollars. You don't expect anyone today, even if he's a representative of the Russian or Chinese administration, to forget that debt. That's what we're talking about today and it's a debt that's coming back. As for the debt of the Russian Federation towards the SFRY, or the SRJ, the issue is very problematic, as private companies and companies have emerged that have taken over this claim and have, in fact, damaged our society. We practically owe them, and they don't owe us anything. As far as the budget deficit is concerned, he's real and no one's running away from him. The sources that will fill the deficit are clearly determined -- 11 billion dinars and 150 million dollars will be achieved through privatisation. No one says these funds will be spent in some one-time activity. I would remind you that the serious budgetary efforts of both the Serbian government and the DOS parliamentary group, which so supports in parliament, are precisely directed towards the retraining of the workforce. The transition fund envisioned by this budget has set aside 4.5 billion dinars. As for the restructuring of businesses and the banking system, nearly 18 billion dinars were allocated in the 2002 budget. As for wages and pensions -- they will increase by around 19%, but will not grow on the basis of funds received through privatisation, but precisely through those processes that have been accurately identified and confirmed by the implementation of the 2001 budget. I don't want to quote you and remind you of what you said in March of the month that's about to end, but I'm glad you weren't right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16138	Thank you. There's no basis for replication. (He speaks to the MPs of the SRS, Tomislav Nikolic. You didn't mention it at all. You've already used a replica by this member once. If you think I'm wrong, I can put it to a vote. There's no replica. I am putting the amendments to Article 3 which the Serbian Radical Party has tabled. For 44, against 109 abstentions, there were no 35 votes, out of a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Nikolic, do you want me to put it to a vote? Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Djura Lazic. The Finance Committee has not accepted the amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16139	The Honored Presidency, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment I tabled on behalf of the SPS, concerns Article 2. The draft budget law, which refers to the deficit provided for in this draft law. Before explaining the amendment, let me note that this year's deficit is much greater than the entire budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2000. With my amendment, I suggest that the second paragraph of point 2 be deleted, which reads "donation of 9 billion 90 million dinars", and that a new text be added instead "from the war damage charge due to the bombing of our country's NATO alliance". I'll say a few words in the light of my amendment. Because of the unjust bombing of our country's NATO pact in 1999, great damage has been done, destruction and destruction of many objects and human lives, so it is natural to apply for compensation instead of begging donations, damages for damage done. Gentlemen of the DOS, I don't think the people have given us authority or given us the right to forget the civilian casualties, the terrible destruction of the country and to give up the charges of war damage. A team before, the causes of our country's bombing were skillfully cut around Rack, as was the formerly carved event on Markalam, which served as a cause for the introduction of sanctions on our country. Our people are being accused of so-called. crimes and violations of some of the rules of war, and the NATO Pact has also violated the Charter of the United Nations and the Geneva Convention and many international norms by committing terrible crimes against our country, in addition to the use of ammunition with impoverished uranium and the drop of cluster bombs, of which, unfortunately, many civilians and children have been killed. By accusing former Serbian and SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic of allegedly seeking to create a large Serbia, a smoke screen is actually being thrown... (President: Please return to the topic. )......................................................................................................... Under which a great Albania is created perfidibly. We need to be aware of that. Donations and loans from international institutions are conditioned by the so-called Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, better said -- by delivering Serbian patriots who defended their country's freedom, protected the people from terrorists as the world's greatest evil. Obedient and obediently accepting obligations from these blackmails, you commit sin against your people and your country. The sale of Serbs to the UN tribunal, I am convinced, Serbia will never forgive. I know that many of you respected colleagues were on the defender of freedom during NATO aggression, defending their country... (President: I warn you to stick to the agenda theme. ) Madam President, everything is in context. If we continue with this, we can see that the morals of those people who are still on the defender of the country today, if they need to face those who violate the freedom and integrity of this country, are also rash and I wonder what motive they will fight, if there is fear and danger that someone tomorrow will accuse them as war criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16141	Anybody else answer for a word? Please, MP Dragan Tomic, as representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16142	This amendment warns us all. I know that a man has a need to suppress from memory of an ugly event, that these ugly events are soon forgotten, but we are still facing the consequences of NATO aggression and I have to comment - we have a book here from my colleague Slobodan Pavlovic, it has shown to the Serbian public, and in the issue, G17 plus - direct damage, meaning NATO aggression in which economic facilities and infrared structures, roads, citizens, to remind more than 2,500 or 3,000 people died in that NATO aggression, and according to this so-called so-called. The G17 expert group was established at $32.9 billion; and because the economy was not working and we were unable to export more, and now it turns out that we made more cars in that year, although there was war than in this expert and transparent, indirect damage was $100 billion. Mr. Labus said in a television show "It's not Serbian to shut up": They say - it's not our fault, and we say - it's not our fault. So it's this people's fault. Please, this is where the Charter of the United Nations was broken, the rules of international law, and all this is not valid and no one will mention it. I asked what happened to our funds abroad. Is it possible that the best part of the Serbian economy will be sold, money will be spent to cover budget deficits, and that cannot be exhaustive. In a few years we'll sell what's right from the Serbian economy, what's wrong with these banks will pick up the budget for what they need, and what doesn't have to go home; for a year or two days we'll have these decadent, social budgets where 127 billion are allocated from the budget to buy social peace and we'll be in a situation that after a few years we don't have any new capacity opened. Employment, we'll forget what it means. Fire, we'll know very well, staying out of work -- too, and I don't know what the budget will look like in three or four years. If the situation is an analogue situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. in Republika Srpska, if this import-oriented trend continues to reduce exports and to boost imports, it means that a import lobby that imports everything and everything has come to the power of Serbia has come to sell at prices that suit it, there is no control. Whether it's real or not, we're going to get into a situation like this -- the 3rd stop being valid because there's not going to be a loan, there's not going to be a donation, we're not going to have what, the question is what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16143	The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, as representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16144	Why do we Serbian radicals not have much faith in what the Proposer of the 2002 Budget Law tells us? Because it taught us how to achieve the 2001 budget. As the Government likes to surprise the MPs with the proposal for an emergency procedure, today, in the principle of this draft budget law, it has provided us with the results of the 2001 budget which should be subject to a good analysis of both the government and the opposition and the institutes dealing with it, but which at first glance say that the government does not respect the taxpayers or the laws that are mostly available to it in this assembly. Looking at the revenues achieved by December 15, I modestly find that this year's budget revenues, with no out-of- budget revenues here, will be around 120 billion dinars; 119 certainly, but whether it will be 120, I don't know. This gives us compared to the 111 index plan, the plan was 107,600,000, and the budget will be reached at around 120 billion. Mr. Minister, in a normal country, the government is addressing the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and asking for budget rebalancing. If she doesn't get the budget rebalance, then spend as much as she planned, 107,600,000, and pay the rest back to the taxpayers. In fact, more income collected. Legal permits you to spend 120 billion dinars, but only 107,600,000. In order to spend 120 billion, you have to be approved in the National Assembly for budget rebalancing. That's why we don't have data from the most transparent government that's come up so far about what it spends and how it spends. I repeat why we reacted to Article 4. The draft budget law -- 19 billion dinars you plan to cover with loans -- that's 8.7% of the budget, 9.1% of the budget, or 20.700,000 of the privatisation and donation; let's also make those revenues, God forbid, I advocate privatisation, God forbid the Republic of Serbia collect 10 billion dinars from privatisation, but you know that's one-off income. It's not taxes and taxes. This year, when we sell cement stores, when we sell... I don't know at all, nobody's letting the public know what we're gonna sell and what's left of us never being able to sell, it's never gonna be sold again. It gets into budget revenue once, and it's gone. It's obvious from this budget that it's going to go to budget costs, there's no development here, there's no investing in anything anymore, this is spending the budget. They're expending unknown users. I note that there are many more employees than there were last year, but still (in one day I haven't really managed to get into the structure of the budget) I don't see how many new employees there are in the state administration, although we have left amendments not to touch employees' salaries; I suppose you planned something realistic and reasonable. To plan 20% of the credit budget, donations, one-time sale of assets is a sign that we will no longer have anything to sell. I warn you, Minister, if you stay and for the next budget, more of these billions will not be available for the budget plan. So how do we cover the budget? Every day, our production drops, and our interest increases. You're predicting a 5 billion-dollar NBJ loan and something, and we have interest on the domestic loans of 6 billion and something. You only take credit to return your domestic interest. It's obvious that everyone can see it from these papers, even if you simply don't deliver some information to your MPs, not to mention the MPs of the opposition, that this is no longer how it works. I don't know what it was like before. It's no excuse for the government to say-- you did the same thing two, five, ten years ago. It's not an excuse. Don't ever commit to what she did...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16145	I'm warning you about overtime.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16146	Oh, my God. Ten seconds, if you're really sick of those ten seconds I'm gonna give you first aid, I'm so professional. There's Mrs. Andric, she'll help you. Whatever you want, that power fell because it worked like this, which is why you justify what you're doing right now. Make sure you justify what you're doing to your needs, not that that's what that...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16147	Mr. Nikolic, I warn you of the application of Article 103. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because you don't stick to the subject, and you've gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16148	Are you all right?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16149	I'm fine. Thank you for finishing up. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 48, against 107, the abstentioned were not voted 37, out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic, Dusan Ilic and Predrag Mijailovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment, and the amendment will be explained by MP Dusan Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16150	After these marathon arguments, I'll try to be really brief. What is the essence of this amendment? The bottom line is that we are trying to prevent, i.e. to reduce the funding of the budget deficit by loans from the National Bank of Yugoslavia and domestic business banks. It is known that this way of funding the deficit can lead to inflationary movements. For this year, we expected 30% inflation, so we ended up at 39%. For us, however, this is one warning and a call to caution, so this is actually the main motive of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16151	I give my word to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16152	As for the loan to the People's Bank of Yugoslavia, that was already a matter of principle. I would like to repeat here that the amount foreseen -- 0.6% of gross national income, according to all criteria, is very small and is absolutely in line with the expected increase in our country's foreign reserves. It is even quite conservative to what is predicted, according to the economic policy criteria. So by reducing already small numbers of 0.6% of gross national income, we would actually punish ourselves if we didn't use the possibility of monetization that's under absolute control. It is even less than the expected growth of the reserves, and this would not only lead the economic policy very strictly, as we are leading it now, but we would have an economic policy that would be stricter than some German, which, as a percentage of the increase in foreign reserves, could increase the monetaryisation of its economy. So there's no good reason not to use the space that exists here. I would just conclude by saying that in the foreseeable future, which will depend on the trust of our population and economy in the country, we will begin to finance the deficit as well as all other countries -- through the issue of bonds from the Republic of Serbia's vault. But it's not ready yet, and I think we might be ready in the middle of next year, and of course you'll be informed of it in good time, but what we're about to do is the minimum that's perfectly reasonable and there's no fear of any inflation effects of this loan. Inflation is not 30% but 40%, not because we borrowed some money from the National Bank of Yugoslavia, as we did, somewhere around 0.6% of gross national income again, but because the chain effects of harmonisation prices were somewhat higher than we predicted, but that's the question, I would say, what you have in your hands, and if you look at electricity, the last model that was made in this country dates back to 1984. So that's what's behind this, and that's why I'd suggest we don't vote for this amendment, punish ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16153	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 57, against 92, a abstentioned one, was not voted 34, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment, and the amendment will be explained by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16154	The Serbian Radical Party has proposed a real budget for next year, a budget that will not be realistically higher than the 2001 budget. On the contrary, it will be even truly smaller. This amendment only allocated the funds to individual expenditure of 155,742,000,000, and to the payment of domestic loans and interest of 6,176.000,000 dinars. Your budget is really higher by 75% compared to this year's budget. When we say actually bigger, that means that he exceeded the inflation figure you said, about 40% and that real increase is about 30%. When we say that the budget is actually bigger, it immediately associates people, citizens of Serbia, and other business entities, at their higher costs on that basis, and these costs will be higher because tax rates have to increase or some new taxes will be introduced to ensure these funds. Many items in this budget are controversial and many items can be corrected, some even thrown out. Much has been said here about donations to NGOs. It's even 420 million. Din. is intended for NGOs. In your proposal here, I have tried to look at everything and find that things stand like this - in the light of this proposal, it says to provide donations to NGOs, so it says in brackets: political parties, the Red Cross of Serbia, sports and youth organisations, religious communities, social and other humanitarian organisations. As for the Red Cross of Serbia, political parties, these funds are provided at the finance and economy ministry. It says nicely that 45,300,000 dinars were provided for the Red Cross of Serbia, the political party and the Union of Reserve Military Elders. As far as religious communities are concerned, 54,000 were provided for them in the department of religion. Sports organisations also have funds provided at the Ministry of Education and Sports. When all of this is summed up, it's undecided, and it's unclear what's going on with 320 million dinars. What NGOs are financed from these 320 million? I must point out that we have a negative experience regarding the funding of these organizations. In fact, a few days or weeks ago, we heard in response to Mr Simonovic's parliamentary question that this government is also being financed by NGOs this year. In fact, this government in this year is funding so-called. The People's Movement "Resistance", i.e. better said and more specifically, is funded by the Ministry of Education and Sports this year by the National Movement "Resistance". It's an NGO and the tendency is to continue funding these organisations in the coming year. I would refer only to Minister Djelic's opening statement a few days ago, where the minister promised to lend the banks to Serbian citizens next year, to introduce loans for broad consumption, for cars, for the purchase of apartments, etc. This statement is not new, such a statement we have already heard from the governor of the National Bank, Dinkic, he gave that statement to the media several days ago, but at the same time closed some 18 Serbian banks. The liquidation of Serbian banks by the governor of the National Bank continues. What's the logical consequence -- this is where foreign banks will come, and they're already coming; these foreign banks will lend loans, the governor has already said the interest will be 16%. So, foreign banks will make their money, which is in their possession extremely cheap, and here at high interest and slowly extract capital from Serbia. I think it was fair to say that to the citizens of Serbia, are the interest in France, Germany other countries 15% and 16% on the annual level, or are they a few percent? Why and for what it's all about, it remains for the citizens to understand for themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16155	Anybody else answer for a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, as representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16156	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, considering this year's budget, the ability of taxpayers, the SRS remains at 161 billion figures, as far as it thinks they should be budget expenditures for next year; Article 4. The draft budget law (which we are now considering) speaks of the total revenue of 219 billion and 516 million, while the out-of- budget income is 14.838,675,000 dinars, which together makes up 234,354,675,000 dinars. For individual expenditures, the government plans 193 billion, for a fixed budget reserve of 978 million, for the current budget reserve of 3,769,837,000, for the payment of domestic loans and interest, 6,176.000,000 dinars, (I see that someone who allows the majority to make a lot more noise than Mrs. Micic has come a worse solution) and, the payment of foreign interest of 15,612,000,000 dinars. In fact, just a month ago, you made us look forward to the news of how the Paris Club of Trustees had written off 67% of our debts, so you and the ministers were very optimistic, talking about the London Club of Trustees, and from there you came back wet, because what they thought they were going to write you off, that was for Milosevic and the brothers of Banovic, and what you think they're writing you off, what you're about to charge for, you're going to have to have another Serbian head in The Hague. But let Serbian citizens know -- by entering negotiations with foreign creditors and a magnificent victory over them, you have charged us for this year's payment of foreign interest of 500 million marks. That's the result of your negotiations. You could've told us that you've taken down 99% of the debts, and if there were 500 million interest marks left for next year, we'd all have to grab our heads. You're the one who got us into paying off the debts that should've been beaten up, Mr. Minister. SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica himself three months ago, no one forced him, and someone probably informed him, admitted that the direct war damage caused by the SRJ was about $33-34 billion. The indirect damage, and by American estimates, goes up to $100 billion. But let's say you were supposed to negotiate 34 billion dollars. And, as is the custom, if war damage is paid for 10 years, because you can't charge suddenly to pay whoever gets convicted, and you've made a year's debate before the International Court of Justice and you'll forgive them all, I know that, but if it's a 10-year payment, that means three billion and $400 million a year on behalf of war damage. It is the planned budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002. What do you think we'd even talk about here right now -- how much taxes, how much interest are there, how you're going to spend your budget? That it was only in you that you wanted to take from the wealthy members of the NATO Pact what they owed you, not that you were among the poor citizens of Serbia, because you would not take from the rich. What brings you here is that you absolutely give up that we were bombed by the NATO Pact and that NATO's pact has to pay for it? How do you think you're going to be in power and give up such a task, to fight them in front of the International Court until the last breath, to settle our war damage? If you don't, you open the door for each of the next bombings. They can bomb you, Mr. Djelic, and because you're wearing shoes number 44, or 43, (they were disproportionately large to me, I couldn't exactly guess). But let me tell you, Mr. Secretary, you take as little as you can from the poor. Take it from the rich.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16157	Anyone else want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16158	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, it is true that among the expenditures in the budget for next year stands as an item -- the payment of foreign interest of 500 million marks. I was just warning about the fact that we have some money abroad, and I'm guessing that a significant part of that funding is at the World Bank, the London and the Paris Club, so I asked the question, is there any chance we could get that money? If there's no way of getting that money, then it's logically bibar to try to beat each other's debts and claims, or it doesn't know the world's economy as a way and model of regulating each other's rights and obligations, so this itself represents an additional burden. I have to say that the value of $500 million is, like, the figure with which it was built -- the hydrosystem "Rzav". To say, for you the money was made in Serbia perhaps 10 - 12 regional water pipelines, in these so-called. Ten years when we were destroying our country. Now, we almost don't have a serious investment procedure in Serbia's area of commercial infrastructure. Although there's one fact, and it's totally hidden in this, that it's tried some sort of assignment, a quadridole of Somboro apartments, it's been assigned, well done, about twenty apartments. In Serbia last year, although we warned, housing construction stopped. We warned of a 1.3% contribution. There is no housing in Serbia. She's reduced to a minimum. The country's rebuilding directorate is down to a minimum. You may have criticized Mrkonjic that he was attacked, impertinent, like this or like that, but the nicos and bridges and the newly-said ones you said were from paper; 37 only railway bridges; the highway was reconstructed; the loop and the road to Pancheva was completed; and who knows what was done by those who stole this country - it was left for the people to see. Just out of that, you builders won't see anything. No creation in any area. You've been negotiating for two years with some kind of Danube commission to clean up the Danube at the New Sad. There's no speech from the Free Bridge in Novi Sad. Then we'll give 500 million marks to pay the interest. It would be okay in normal business, if Serbia were functioning normally and we hadn't had a renovation in the last 8-9 years. That's perfectly normal in real economic policy. It's just, where are our five billion dollars, what about the war damage, is someone really gonna pay us all? What about the dividends from our money abroad and why the London Club, the Paris Club and the International Bank, or the World Bank, did not negotiate beating those debts. Is that why we still have interest and visas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16159	Is anyone else answering for word on this amamdnau? No, I don't. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by a group of Members of the SRS. For 39, against 121 abstentions, they did not vote 24, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic, Dusan Ilic and Predrag Mijailovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. The amendment will be explained by MP Dusan Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16160	Part of this amendment was to reduce the current budget reserve and to bind these funds from the current budget reserve, as can be seen in Article 8, to funds intended for agriculture; we would increase subsidies in agriculture. Since the growth achieved in previous years, to the greatest extent, we can thank agricultural production and its growth, we believe that subsidies should be further assisted. At the same time, we believe that funds in the budget reserve, which are somehow used to put out fires, should somehow be tied down by budget items as much as possible. Finally, in an amendment proposed by MP Vesic, part of the budget reserve was transferred to an item that would be tied to MPs and to finance the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and based on the transfer of competence from the government and the Joint Service Administration to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's also one of the amendments we have to pay attention to. All in all, it is, in short, an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16161	I thank you, Mr Bozidar Djelic, the Minister of Finance has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16162	As regards the budget reserve, the budget reserve and its use are governed by the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses. Since this was noted in the explanation, there is no discretion on the minister's part to use these funds. So, all the solutions, and that's now an established practice, are published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", so our entire public can know what it's doing. If we look at it, and it was the same in one explanation, the size of this reserve is actually insufficient. Good practice would be if it wasn't 1% of the budget, as we heard in the debate. I think there's some mixed pots. One criterion is 1% of gross national income. For our budget, that should be nine billion, according to some estimates. But unfortunately, we can't provide it in this amount of budget, because it would simply mean another 4 - 5 billion dinars of possible consumption, and that was a lot. So that's about the volume. As far as discretion is concerned, and the last thing, the use that can be predicted through that budget reserve, this year 80% of the funds for the purchase of wheat are provided from the loan that it has provided to the stocks for the purchase of wheat. So, of those 7.5 dinars, it was supposed to be about 20% of that to be a subsidy, because it's a forecast according to what's going on on the market, how much is the subsidy, and how much is the market price of the wheat, and how much can it come back after the sale of that wheat. We cannot at this point in the budget law predict exactly how much ransom will be made, but we have already announced that up to 300,000 tonnes, at the cost of 8 dinars, will be bought. We've already predicted around the second item that about 20% of that will be a subsidy. So we have one predicting what the price on the market will be, at that moment. For example, the market price could be 12 dinars, and at that point, farmers would not be interested in selling to the country a larger quantity. We can't predict that right now. So here is the proposal that this budget reserve, which is already quite small, is further reduced, and in the explanation it can further explain what the largest part of the budget reserve is intended for; that is about two billion for the purchase of wheat. At this point, we can't exactly write it in law. It has yet to be exposed to market movements. If there's anything safe, there's no reason to predict it in the reserve. Then it becomes an item. That's why it's not a separate item, but we're suggesting that a good part of that reserve will go to buy out the wheat. I suggest not to vote for this amendment, but to add to the explanation of the assessment of what will be used for the purchase of wheat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16163	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I'll put you to the vote, amdnaman. For 46, against 96, the two abstentions, were not voted 38, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Vesic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16164	The amendment I have submitted to Article 4 is related to the amendment I have submitted to Article 9, which also concerns reducing the current budget reserve. The reason is very simple, because during this year's special decision we separated the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from the Office for Joint Affairs under the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For these reasons, it is necessary to provide for certain resources for the work of the National Assembly, both for the payment of the contributions given to Members and for the permanent functioning of the Assembly itself, for material additives, etc. However, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been working independently since 1 January, and since we are awaiting budget rebalancing, in the contacts that we have had -- the Administrative Committee has supported this amendment, we have discussed this with the minister -- we have reached an agreement that during the budget rebalances the cuts within certain sections relating to the material costs of the joint bodies in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the funds be transferred to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to make a mechanical division and then, in the very rebalancing of the budget, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia gets the place it now has. For these reasons, I am withdrawing the amendment to Article 4(3) as well as the amendment to Article 9. Section 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16165	I find that MP Goran Vesic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 4 and Article 9. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 SRS MPs. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. The amendment will be explained by MP Branislav Blazic. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16166	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Member of the 5th Budget, I'm saying this for the public, and also for you who haven't even read the budget, it's about covering the expenditure of the AP Vojvodina budget for 2002. It is a little illogical why the Budget Law predicted that we would finance the cover of the expenditures of the AP Vojvodina, and we did not foresee the budget of Kosovo and Metohija, but called it expenditures for Nebojsa Covic and his group of citizens, so we brought two autonomous provinces into an unequal position. But let me explain to you the views of the SRS. I think that you're terribly late with the arrangement of relations, not only in the Federation, but also in the Republic of Serbia and -- that once we have to resolve whether we're going to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, if we're going to change it, how it's going to be changed, and to define the status of Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija, in the opinion of the SRS, by abolishing autonomy, and I assume you'll have most of the solution that's acceptable to you now in power, means, for DOS in general. The point is that this year too, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in fact from the share of citizens' income, from the income tax, from the income tax on personal income and the part of corporate tax revenues, is financed by the expenditure of the AP Vojvodina budget for 2002, which will amount to 632 million dinars. The Autonomous Region administration is scheduled to carry out 5% of the income tax on citizens' income achieved on the territory of the AP Vojvodina and 10% of the company's income on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Now that such a situation has already been defined, and there is still an AP Vojvodina as autonomy, then, with all the government's promises that we will have a high rate of economic growth, with the apparent fact that the budget's revenues were 11% higher than planned for this year, the SRS parliamentary group has made an amendment that in percentages of the revenue generated by the two types of taxes the revenue provided for Vojvodina. Namely, by increasing the rate of growth, increased revenues in the budget, you will achieve the figure that is foreseen, and the figure is 632 million dinars, and it is far above if the estimated percentages remain: 5% of the personal income tax and 10% of the company's profit tax. That's why we predicted a reduction for the first to the three and the second to the 5%. We are convinced that if you fulfill what you promise next year, that the revenues will be far higher and that the administration of the AP Vojvodina, acting as a role model, will spend that budget whatever it is, even if it is a billion, two billion dinars. We think you misjudged the Duke's incomes or maybe you've misjudged them, but you're fooling us that the economy is going to work much better than it's done so far. One of these is not true. If it's going to get much better, the percentages have to shrink. If it doesn't get any better, let's keep the percentages that were up until now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-26-0.u16167	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 47, against 123, there are no eager ones, there was no vote of 14, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. This would be the end of today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 157 MPs attend today's session. Please confirm the quorum. I figure we have a quorum, we can keep working. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Milutin Svetović, Miomir Tadic, Zivica Predojev, Kermeci Karolj, Biači Anton, Juhas Atila, Slobodan Radulović, Natasa Milojevic, Slobodan Adžić, and only in the morning Branislav Grubački, Bora Novaković and Gordana Komic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-President, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
