ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9875	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Chairman, dear fellow ministers, Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, you have before you a package of laws that should regulate privatisation and privatisation processes in the coming period. I would say that this is one of the crucial laws and a crucial package of laws that should be privatized to use as a powerful tool for the realisation of economic reforms. It is precisely, by handling this fact that privatisation is of vital importance not only for one political party, but for all the participants in privatisation, and I expect that all citizens will participate in privatisation, we have worked hard in the government and the Ministry to carry out a strong, public campaign in the last three months, that all citizens and all participants in the privatisation get to know the concept of privatisation, in order to achieve the social consensus and consensus of all the participants in the privatisation, in particular by handling the fact that even the best privatisation law has no chance of succeeding unless there is support for all those who participate in it. By conducting a public campaign, we held over 30 meetings with businesses across Serbia, we had eight talks with all relevant trade unions where we introduced them to why this way of privatisation, why we proposed the concept of privatisation. We had a presentation at five expert conferences, because all experts need to stand behind this privatisation law. We had a presentation at eight investment forums. We also had talks with all the people who led the privatisation in other countries, who used privatisation as a powerful tool for an effective transition. So, with former directors of agencies, finance ministers of Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovenia, Estonia, so everywhere where privatisation has been used successfully. We had strong support from the World Bank and its experts. In one word, we tried to take advantage of all the positive experiences of other countries when writing this concept and the law on privatisation and accompanying legal acts that should support the implementation of privatisation in our country. Of course, we are not happy that we have this advantage that ten years later we can use positive experiences, i.e. to avoid mistakes, because for all of us and our country it would be best if privatisation was done when it was to be done, which is early 1990, when all countries in transition used privatisation more or less successfully, as a means of realising economic reforms, i.e. as strong support for transition policy. On the basis of the public debate, we have concluded that we have the necessary consensus between the participants in the privatisation and that everyone agreed that privatisation must be a powerful tool for the realisation of economic reforms. When we came up with privatisation this way, we started with an analysis of the existing state. We concluded that Serbia's economy today lies in a deep financial and business crisis, that there are no trade funds, over 660 billion dinars, that the accumulated losses in last year were over 500 billion dinars, that foreign debts are very high for a country in transition, that internal debt is more than 847 billion dinars, that there is one latent indifference precisely due to the economy, because of the economy it is, with an inherited structure from the late 1970s and early 1980s. We have concluded that the privatisation process must produce an open structure of the economy and must result in open capital for new investments. So, gentlemen, when I say privatisation, I mean investment, when I say privatisation, I mean very corporate management, strong management. When I say privatisation, I don't mean company sale. I mean, first of all, the arrival of strategic partners who will invest in our economy, our businesses, which will inject that over the necessary fresh capital not only into crafts but also fixed funds. And when I say privatisation, I mean along with privatisation -- using two more pillars of economic reform, which are -- the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and direct investment in new industries. When I say privatisation, I don't mean maintaining the structure of the economy as it is, because it's inefficient. That's what you see from the data, how accumulated the losses are. That is why privatisation is a powerful tool for our country's successful transition economic policy. For the first time in your life, you have a privatisation law. We had laws that regulated the transformation of property. We had laws that regulated the conversion of social property into other forms of property. We actually had the names of the laws that best said how much this country has actually been for privatisation in the past period. We say very clearly today - yes, this is a law on privatisation, because there is only one form of property from which and into which social property can be transformed, which is private property. For the first time with this concept of privatisation and this law you will have the widest category of participants in privatisation. So, not only the employees of the economy, but the employees of extra-economic activities, all citizens over the age of 18, because I believe that all generations that created social property must participate in the privatisation of the part where we talk about the free share of capital. If not those who are no longer living can do so, then their successors, and therefore citizens in privatisation, and therefore that social consensus between not only employees, but also those who are not employees. And remember, this country has an unemployment rate of 27%. Moreover, more than 600,000 employees are only formally employed in companies that only formally exist because salaries are not received more than six months to a year. So this vast army of people, citizens, will have a chance to participate in privatisation, in that section of the citizens. You today have before you a law that adequately forms a balance between the central implementation of privatisation, and on the other hand between the initiative that is decentralised at the level of the company. As you know, in other countries privatisation was conducted by the state privatisation agency, and that privatization of the entire economy. We did not consider it appropriate that privatisation should be run by only one central agency, because we believe and think that we are right, we are sure that we are right, that management in our economy is at a much higher level, a more quality level than it was in Central European countries in the early 1990s. As a result, the largest number of enterprises will have a fully decentralised initiative and a decentralised way of implementing privatisation. The agency, as a central institution, will concentrate only on privatising state capital and privatising the social capital of the largest social enterprises. What are our goals? Our goal is primarily to have an efficient economy. Efficient economy is in line with efficient privatisation. Our goal is to have a clear ownership regime, because only in such a regime can you prevent uncontrollable privatisations, harmful contracts. When you have social property, then there's no way they're gonna show up like that in any other way. Our goal is to maximise foreign capital inflows through privatisation. And it's not just an inflow of foreign capital, it's a total of direct investments. That's why I said a little bit - when I say privatisation, I mean investment in enterprises. Our goal is to have a very corporate governance, to have better management. By privatising, we begin to create a market economy in the right sense of the word, where, in addition to the company's competition, there will be competition between employees, but also competition between management, where management will be chosen on the basis of the personal, own quality in the profession it comes from, and not on the basis of which political parties, where management will have the main task of producing profit to its owner and it will be the only criterion for whether it will remain where it is or whether better management and better directors will replace it. Our goal is to privatise the start of an open, liberal economy. Our goal, too, is to strongly support the development of financial markets by privatising, and as you have seen, so far, the secondary turnover of all actions, which have been broadcast in privatisation, has been banned, and we are now allowing the transport of these actions. This is support for the development of the financial market, at least in part of secondary traffic, and we hope this concept of privatisation will produce a final quotation on the Belgrade Stock Exchange. I'm sure that's what's gonna happen with the big companies. So, in accordance with these objectives, we have defined the basic principles of this law. As you have seen, the basic principles are economic growth and social stability. The basic principle is that the price, the value of capital, is determined in accordance with market conditions. The basic principle is flexibility and full public and visibility of the privatisation process. That's why it's good to have this whole principle debate run on all three laws, because we can very clearly tell where privatisation is. This time privatisation will be mandatory and timed. Why is the privatisation of social property necessary? Here, I'll explain. All the time in the last 10 years, next to what's-his-name. controlled privatisations under the law that has been passed in our country since the 1990s, have run in a parallel quiet, uncontrollable privatisation, or as one economist said "buzzer's privatisation", through harmful contracts, where social property has been permanently poured into private pockets, and then it was possible to explain how large private empires, minors overnight, were created with enormous profit rates. It is not good to stand up for social property, because social property is an inefficient form of property compared to private property, wherever it exists compared to private property. Privatisation of social property must be a means to realise transition policy, and no uncontrollable privatisation through harmful contracts, as was the case with us. And that's why we're going with the privatisation of social property. All these processes have to be public, transparent. And the law itself, after all, is technically simple. In this law, you will not find that in Article 45, we are calling for Article 15 and we are calling for Article 56. From the beginning to the end, the law very clearly determines the course of privatisation. Public privatisation means public, maximising information among participants in privatisation, and that means when the company enters privatisation, advertising in all means of information, in the media, on the website. Advertising through our embassies for potential foreign investors, and, when it comes to large tenders, by advertising in renowned financial magazines, those lists read by large multinational companies. That is, therefore, the public - information. When you have no information, then you have no public in the process. Transparency means that privatisation and sale of capital, as a dominant model, is offered exclusively by this law through transparent techniques. Public offer, collection of offers, or public collection of offers, or tender, and public competition of customers, or auctions. These are the most transparent sales techniques. There is no greater visibility of the process, with some other techniques. Direct sales always give birth to corruption, and that's why direct sales in this law are gone. And what is our task - that we have a fully efficient and objective regulatory framework. As you have seen, the subject of privatisation will be capital, but also property, in the privatisation process. Why is the paper -- because we realize there are a large number of companies, where property is significantly less than a liability. So, the launch of Serbia's economy from one state of death, in a state where we can make maximum use of existing fixed resources, which exist in these companies, only in the privatisation process. As you've seen, although the law does not explicitly write it anywhere, but when you read the part relating to the tender and auctions, you realize that all large enterprises, and there are up to 150, will go through the tender privatisation, which will be conducted by the Privatisation Agency. You understand that all small and medium-sized enterprises will go through auction privatisation, and there are over seven thousand of them, who have to go through the process. You can see that auction privatisation is maximumly decentralised at company level. So it's the company he's organizing, he's running an auction. The auction committee shall carry out the auction only in a narrow sense. Complete preparation is carried out by the company. But the Agency is here to organise a tender privatisation, because the tender organisation is a very, very serious business. And it's not true, that's what I have to say, that the Agency is controlling itself. We have thus set up all entities, which participate in the implementation of privatisation, by ensuring the principle of visibility and transparency of all processes in that positive sense, so that the Agency has delegated responsibility and delegated rights, and by controlling the Agency by the Ministry, or by the Government. I hope you will suggest that the Assembly establish a special commission, which will monitor the work of the Agency, monitor the work of the ministry. We would, of course, be willing to put it into the law, but you know very well that it is not legally possible. The more supervisors, the more commissions, believe me, that's better for the Agency, that's better for the ministry, that's better for the government. Only when we have such cross-set entities, which participate in privatisation, can we guarantee that privatisation is a visible, public, transparent process, and therefore I ask you to come out with a proposal to establish a special assembly commission, which will monitor all these processes. You've seen that the law contains a strong initiative within it, which can come from employees, from auction privatisation. You saw that at auction privatisation 30%, employees, and former employees, pensioners, have the right to share free of charge. In small and medium-sized enterprises, we don't need partners coming from the side. I expect that competition will be made within the company and that several different groups will come out with their individual offers and compete with each other. We need strategic partners in large companies. Among other things, if we do not want to share rets, but rather a quality portfolio of shares, then the privatisation register, which is proposed here in the law, must have a limited number of portfolios, because tomorrow, when we complete the privatisation tender, we will share the shares of the privatisation register with the citizens, and these actions, gentlemen, I'm sure, will be listed on the stock market. And only then, will the citizens get, not rets, but quality securities of value. That was our goal. So, at the tender privatisation, we also have 70% sales to the customer on the side, probably to the strategic partner, because it's big businesses that need big investments, 15% we'll share to the employees, and 15% goes to the privatisation register. How do we share the shares, when -- first there's sales, then there's a free division of employees, and I said when the shares of the privatisation register are divided. Why this time, why in these sequences? Because, gentlemen, when you sell 70% of the capital for seven million marks, then you must know that 30% of the capital is worth three million marks. Then there's no fraud, then there's no illusions, no surprises. Then whoever takes the paper, the nominal value is equal to the real value, with the majority capital holding a partner who has the investment power to invest in the company, and with those actions having the chance to grow. If we were to share the shares for free, the economy would stop and go down, because, workers, all citizens, don't have the money to invest in investments, in the company, and don't forget -- the key criterion for proposing this concept is to provide investment in the company. So auction privatisation, with a strong stimulating scheme. I expect offers from within, I expect competition between several different groups of employees. You have seen that we have allowed the use of foreign money as a means of payment, in addition to domestic, foreign money, of course, in a procedure defined by the Foreign Trade Act, but also bonds for old foreign savings can be used to pay capital. You saw, too, that we defined the specific purpose of using privatisation revenues. Why specific purposes - because, as privatisation cannot be viewed separately from economic transition policy, so privatisation revenues cannot be observed separately. Privatisation, gentlemen, will not create the unemployed. They already exist, they exist because our economy is as it is, inefficient, producing constant losses. Privatisation will reflect these problems, which are: inefficient economy, surplus employees, large foreign debts, which have fallen through this sandy economy, inefficient, old foreign savings, which has also failed through this inefficient economy. These are all other problems, which were born out of the misstructured economy. That's why privatisation revenues have to be used to eliminate these negative effects, which will be reflected through privatisation. So we will use the funds of privatisation, or revenue, to support the social programmes implemented at the level of each individual enterprise, to repay foreign debts and to repay the old foreign exchange savings, because you saw in the law, a special section that says - restructuring in the privatisation process. What does that mean? The state will take the debts on itself, so when the state takes the debts, it is normal for those debts to be recovered from privatisation revenues. And why is the state taking on debts -- because we realize that we have at least 30 large systems, which because of their over-indebted debt are not attractive to privatization, we have to repair their financial structure. Also, part of the income has to go for special purposes, and that's the compensation of old owners, and we've made it clear -- anywhere where the physical return of property is possible, that physical return of property will be regulated by the law on denationalisation, but we're talking primarily about businesses here. Companies today don't look like enterprises from 1944. So it's not possible to return physically, and that's why we're proposing compensation in money, because money is the most liquid asset, so liquidate both from fixed funds and hence, we think it's the best way. Also, part of the funds will be used to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, to create a flexible economy, so the part that our economy needs. So, who are the participants and the entities that conduct the privatisation? Superfluous agency, but only in the tender privatisation, and it doesn't decide for itself. There is a tender commission formed by the ministry because the tender commission gives the last word and that is the control and division of the roles between the entities participating in privatisation. At auction, the agency only organizes an auction in the narrow sense of that word and nothing else, everything else is on the company. In law, we say the agency promotes, initiates, implements and controls, but the privatisation process, gentlemen, is not itself. It is controlled by the government, i.e. the ministry through the boards of directors and supervisors. I hope, once again, that the Assembly will establish a committee that will exercise this parliamentary control over these entities that participate in the implementation of privatisation. What's the role of the action fund? That's how I get in touch with the current law. The role of the action fund is that there is a limited time and that as soon as possible the action it has in its portfolio. As you know, the action fund was created as a consequence of the previous concept of privatisation and he has absolutely nothing with this concept of privatisation. But the action fund has to deal with the attention of a good expert, and that means we don't care who buys shares from the action fund already privatised enterprises, but that our goal is to have the owner everywhere where the action fund package is over 25% a strategic partner. So we're going to start negotiating, in the story, in the business talks, with the goal of uniting actions and forming a majority offer, because only through a tender can you control the level of investment inflows. That will be the task of the action fund. It takes six years and then disappears, but business with the attention of a good expert. As you have seen, this law has no retroactive provision whatsoever. As promised, not only me, but the government, there is no retroactiveness in the legal solution to privatisation, because that retroactivity would create a risk of property, but of course control of everything that has been done continues. I'll remind you once again, about 400 companies have entered privatisation within two months, from November to January, and previously only 354. What will be our mission? To free those actions from any secondary traffic bans. If we want to develop a financial market, we need to abolish the right to an obstacle to purchase, because it is about actions that have been broadcast from privatisation. When the right to stop buying exists, then forget about functioning the stock market, it's just impossible to do that. Our task will also be to take part of the actions that sits needlessly in the pension and disability fund into the action fund, to form a majority offer and to get there and to the strategic partner. Let me just say, there are no more 10% shares in the pension fund, because they were absolutely useless for the pension and disability fund. There are 10% of the revenue from every privatisation, because we're not going to recapitalize something, but we want to refinance it, to financially boost it through privatisation. When all this is done, and it will be implemented, because we have the support of those who need to invest here, because we have the support of all international institutions, because I personally had over 150 conversations and bilateral contacts with a potential strategic partner (and to tell the public who this strategic partner is: these are big companies that have their own renaissances, which can find the market and have the investment potential, which we need today by establishing the situation in the economy as it is), we will have an efficient economy, economic growth, social stability. Because social stability cannot be achieved by free division of actions. We will have a clear and transparent ownership structure, a very corporate governance, a financial market and, gentlemen, we will have cleared balances between the state, businesses and banks. Internal debt is an institution only the socialist economy knows. We will therefore have a chance to build a market economy, a modern market economy in which there will be competition between capital, businesses, goods, employees and management. The initiative, gentlemen, is on top of management and I hope that this initiative will be strongly exploited, because this is a strong support for economic reforms in our country and that is it. It's an effective transition, it's this new economic structure that we're going by, where the law on privatisation is one, the truth is the most important pillar for building an efficient structure of the economy. In the end, I want to mention and thank all those people who took part in the expert team or their useful advice to help make this law look what it looks like, and I hope it's very good and it's not my assessment. It's the assessment of people who carried out transitions in other countries. Prof. Dr. Miodrag Zec, Dr. Nikola Zelic, Dr. Bosko Zivkovic, Dr. Boris Begović, Dr. Bosko Mijatović, Dr. Jovan Rankovic, Dr. Ljubomir Hungary, Dr. Srbojub Antić, Dr. Milan Kovacevic, and I thank my colleagues who have accepted the invitation to work on this project, because I think this project deserves support, this is a matter concerning all of us, Dr. MirkuCvetković, Branki Janković-Radović, Andrija Popov, Siniši Mali, Vladimir Čupić, Dušan Nikezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9876	I thank the minister and give my word to the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9877	Dear People's MPs, the adoption of the Privatisation Act is a historic act for every parliament, including ours. However, we have tried several times over the past ten years to end this process. I hope that this will be the last privatisation law and that we will definitely remove traces of the ideological society in which we have lived for a long time and where the principle of efficiency was not put in priority, but the principle of rights and rights arising from governance, which had more to do with the distribution of power, influence and privilege, than with the question of efficiency. The issue of privatisation and ownership for today's Serbia is not an ideological issue, and there is a consensus on this among all parties, and I think that this is one major progress that has been made and has been quite undetectablely achieved over the past years, that more today in Serbia, as far as the relevant political organisations are concerned, no one is against private property as the dominant kind of property. Of course, the question of the rights arising from the work process is one other package, and I would ask our citizens who are interested in this privatisation process and who see their destiny in it, that they in their consciousness set out those two criteria, those two priorities. One is the efficiency of the economy, and the other are labour rights, social rights, profit rights, rights arising from the production process, from the economy process, which are not related to the principle of property. So it happened, because of human nature and because of the development of the human race, that private property is a more efficient vision of property than any other kind of property. It happened that people are motivated and interested, they're trying, or they're most interested in it when it comes to themselves, about their money. That's why private property is more efficient vision. We cannot correct human nature, as some of our predecessors have tried, we can accept that fact and say, we will either be a country of effective nature, or we will be a country of inefficient nature. We have defined ourselves to be a land of effective nature. I liked the explanation Margaret Thatcher gave 15 years ago, when she explained why one part of the state property should be privatized, then in England, where the unions were very strong, where it was a very delicate question. She said -- to me as prime minister of the government at the time, most importantly, not so much that the private owner makes some profit, it's most important to me that he can go bankrupt. If he makes the wrong decision, I'll pay my money. When he pays with his money his wrong decisions, not with our money, then I can sleep quietly, because then he won't sleep peacefully. I think someone who deals with business should have a restless dream, and these other people who just get their pay, who can't participate in the profit, have a quiet dream. I think that's a good argument for our country, too. Only those who had social money slept peacefully in this country. They could never go bankrupt, they were always just spending other people's money. Those who worked, who stood up at 5:00 in the morning and who only had their salary, they did not sleep peacefully, because the business of their businesses was always on the edge. Today we have data that 600 thousand people in Serbia are employed in companies that are actually in bankruptcy proceedings. Also, in Serbia today which has mixed property is as clear as in all other countries, that the part of the economy that is private - effective, however partially it has avoided the right to show its condition, and that the social part of the economy is completely inefficient. So that's the most important reason for us to say today - we're making a definitive decision that we're going to become a society of efficient businesses, and that other issues that are life- and essential, which are labour status, these are rights issues, we're going to solve on a second track, this kind of discussion and the Labour Law, labour rights, trade union rights, and all of that other complex of topics. I would ask that we separate these two questions because they were very melted in Serbia and today they are melted, and in almost every debate you have in public, the question of rights arises, instead of the issue of efficiency, and this cloudes the entire complex. One important consequence that has an ideological element that follows from the privatisation of the economy is the much smaller impact of administrative authorities on jobs. It was something that allowed informal power in our society, if the economy is social, and if the economy is state-owned, then whoever has power affects the economy, employees and always has behind them, potentially, one army of support for all the employees in these companies that depend on the funds, from whether a phone call from a bank will transfer money for wages. It will stop and Serbia will become one country of full-aged and independent people where everyone will check their work, their knowledge, their abilities, and vote for the one whose programme he likes the most. Not because he's addicted to it, but because he believes in the ideas contained in that program. So in principle, and I just want to say a few things about three or four topics that have been discussed in our society in the last month or two days, or that I have met in discussions on this topic and which have been asked as questions. The first question is the concept of privatisation, the second question is about privatisation priorities, what will be the most important in one privatisation process, the third question of what will happen to the money that is received from it, and the fourth question is what about the social programme, why the government did not first come up with a clear, coherent round-up social programme, and then offered a privatisation programme. And I'm going to try to put that out for the shortest time and say that this state of information that we have as a government have available, defining ourselves for this concept, does not include the possibility that there are any better solutions or that these solutions can't be changed during the application if they turn out not to be the best. The first and central question is a matter of concept. Whether privatization through vouchers means sharing shares free of charge, whether to all citizens, whether to be employed by citizens, whether only to some citizens or to be privatised through sales. We're the ones, if you remember, or the ones who remember, who advocated the voucher privatisation 10 years ago. The opposition, or most of the opposition, mainly advocates it (the Democratic Party also, as well as some other experts in our country) so that the most just privatisation would be carried out by sharing shares of social property with all private citizens or with certain criteria, which means social capital, and then, in some ways, listed on the stock market and one procedure that seemed logical at the time, which we advocated. Now we've changed the concept obviously, not all, some people, especially from some trade unions, think we should carry out the privatisation process in this way today. Why did we define ourselves for this second concept? Because in the meantime, practically, our economy has failed. In the meantime, it has really become a question of what this shared social capital is, is it one big illusion that people will think they have become owners of real values, so that after a while they find that only owners of the right to pay their debts? Most companies, if we look at the national economy in general, are more in charge than it is currently worth. This means that this free share would just be distributed not by something that's real, which we believed 10 years ago that our economy has, but would actually be divided by something that is fictional, which is some capital and some value. It would take a certain period of time, while out of the few million, or ten million shares, some management of these companies would be structured, which would lead us back to selling these shares to someone who would like to become the owner of these businesses. The team would lose a certain period of time, and the only gain from it would be that the money that will be received by sale, instead of going to some state funds that can be run by some economic policy, would be allocated to a larger number of citizens, but not so much that they could solve their problems by doing so, but just enough not to have that money in one place where some smart economic policy could be managed. This is the basic reason why we think that today, and for this 70% of social capital to sell directly, to have one fund that is controlled by both parliament and society, and the international business public, and then to run a certain economic policy based on that little money to be collected. Another reason is because we think that today when we talk about selling in Serbia, we don't primarily think about selling companies, selling technology that is in these companies, selling buildings, because if we were selling it, it's hard to find a buyer. What we sell is the belief that business will make Serbia a profit. So, we sell the future market, or Serbia as a future market and whoever enters the right to have its own company there, to believe that it has a labour force that is at European level, or which can be raised at European level, that it has a market of 10 million consumers, potentially a much larger market. That's what we're offering today. If we were to offer machines, buildings, we'd get very little. If we look at the responsibility we have for abroad, and within the country, then not only do we not get it, we would have to pay more. This means that we are offering expectations and we are on the world market expecting our country to become part of the world market and that business in Serbia will make a profit. In order for this expectation to be rewarded by an appropriate offer, we must behave appropriately both as political factors and as economic factors, and unions, and management, and the local community, and the government of Serbia and other political parties. It is expected that Serbia will become part of the world market, because we are now offering the market. It includes stability of the political system, integration into financial institutions, credit, globally, it includes normal political life on the relation of the local community, regional relations, central government, political system stability in terms of relations between parties, relations in parliament, all of this is our offer. If there are disputes, if there are strikes, if the owner has to pay first, then he comes and finds 1,000 people at the gate, who will tell him -- you're not going to take our hard and bloody acquired property to your country or I don't know where, all of it collapses like a map tower. So I ask you as ambassadors and citizens to realize that this isn't just a clean sale, that we have a source of oil or a mine of diamonds. There are several cases that are so, where raw materials are concerned and where there is no problem in privatizing, but the vast majority of cases are not. So it's not a clean purchase, it's about our market, our economy and our country's perspective showing up here as an interesting facility to invest someone's capital. We have to raise that price with our wise conduct, our agreements, by not laying their feet on each other, by not being corrupted by small people from small factories, so when one strategic partner comes, the other one who wants to buy a cheaper factory, to keep thousands of marks from rebelling, to drive that big guy away, to buy that little cheaper one. It already exists in Serbia. The market, privatisation and all that has to do with money is a harsh market, so it will all be in Serbia, but it is important that we always have in mind the interest of the national economy. One factory can't be more important than the entire national economy. The credibility of the national economy is this map that we can go to the world market with. Five-six benevolent companies, sell them and then keep everything else in the loop, we don't have it as a national economy. We need the entire national economy to rise through this privatisation process, to gain value and to enter enough strategic capital to be able to launch this process. The other topic is priorities. There are three topics where we're at an opportunity, so where there's an interested partner, we're talking. The first topic is the price. She's not the most important. The second topic is what will happen to employees and the third topic is how much investment in technological recovery will be. All three topics are equally important. So whoever offers the highest price, and is not ready to give bank guarantees that they will modernise the company, is not interesting, because it can happen that he buys that company, to close it down, to reduce competition for his goods, which he will bring from another country. Also, he must have a social program for that individual company. So, if this company is worth something, then it certainly has to find a solution for all those who are employed in it and that they know what's going to happen to them in the next five years. These are priorities. I have to warn you, we won't be able to set such conditions anywhere. But in one period, first of all in the first year of privatisation, we'll be able to, because this will be about companies that are interesting for strategic partners. They are willing to enter our market and pay a lot more than these companies are worth physically. Another controversial topic was what would happen with that money, wouldn't it be best if every local community or province did it and then that money, which it gets (because it's supposed to and made in such a way, that every local community made its own local factory), used how it thinks it's the smartest. We don't think that's a good solution. We think that this money from sales, from privatisation of property in Serbia, should solve the problem of the national economy. And the problem of the national economy has several dimensions. One is already mentioned debt. We have to pay as a country a part of the debt, which we did before and until 1990, because we took foreign technology on credit. Credits are not paid and we as a normal country, the UN member must pay our debts. We hope that they will be very reduced, but they will exist as minorities. We have a debt to the citizens, to the foreign savings. That money went to the economy, too. If someone tries to question their rights now to an enterprise, it leads to a de-nearing balance, it leads to the collapse of the state. So the privatisation process has to be central, it can't be any municipality, it can't be a province, no one else can take over the state's intelligence, because that leads to a deob-balance sheet, that leads to the question of how far out of the central cash register went into that company, how much from that company went into the central register, that means we're demarcated. That can't happen in Serbia. Therefore, it is not possible to decentralised privatisation in such a way. But, of course, that money has to be invested in the regional economy. Of course, from that region, where privatisation is done, most of the money must be invested in the region. It's a political process, it's flexible, it's daily, it can't be defined by law. It can't be said now, for example, in the law that out of that 70% of the money received, 45% will be invested in the economics of that municipality, 25% in something else, but that's our political decision. Our political decision is that one significant part of the money, which was won by privatisation in one region, be invested in the economy of the region, that one other part be a small fund of solidarity, which will help those regions where privatisation has failed or that have no luck having some companies that have been sold well. Part of it will go into the social programme, meaning the labour qualification programme, the labour preparation programme for the new economy. We cannot solve the problem of extra employment by trying to save only the old economy and the old systems. People who are technologically surpluses or people who are jobless must realize that they can't possibly get more jobs at those jobs, where they used to work, because those jobs might not exist anymore. They must prepare, too, to change, to acquire new qualifications. The state with this fund has the means to help them. But they have to psychologically break in themselves and say -- one phase of our economy is over, a new, dynamic phase is coming, where qualification, knowledge, flexibility will be the main asset. Our people, who are now afraid of privatisation, will lose their jobs, are wrong. They're, if they're out of a job, they're out of a job. The privatisation won't leave them out of work, they're already out of a job. They'd better see the condition of our economy's disease clearly, that we have therapy and that we start treatment, and not to keep it quiet, and that there are, for example, 2,000 dinars in the factory, where it doesn't work, and then there are 200 more marks on the street, where it sells gasoline or cigarettes. There's no future in it, there's no development in it. The Privatisation Act establishes clean relations, on which it is then possible to build a future. Two or three more sentences about the social program. That's a nice word, but also a dangerous word. If you have 40% of the unemployed, as far as we have, which is significantly more than the regional average, which is about 25 - 27%, then there is no social programme that can cover these problems. If you have one person on one employee who has income and does not work, which is currently in Serbia, you cannot have a social programme. The entire national economy and national policy is today a social programme, and this means a programme to create one economy, which will be able to produce enough to cover the costs of other parts of society, including the cost of serviceing those layers of the population, which have not found their place in the manufacturing process. Expecting that a government could come out with a social programme can have two elements: or that the government is insecure and promises something that it cannot meet or that it has several billion marks in a fund, from which it will finance the social programme. What we say, without illusions, is that through privatisation there will be some problems, but there will also be some resources to solve these problems. We will jointly analyse the situation and see what these problems are, what are the priorities and this will lead to a political struggle in Serbia. Finally, we will have a political struggle that will be addressed on the issue: what are the priorities in the economy? Whether to invest on one side or another, it will be a real political match in Serbia. The last sentence - no privatisation law is ideal, each has its opponents and there were many opponents in each country of all privatisation laws. It's one field everyone's interested in and all the experts are interested in. I don't think this law, of course, is the best, or the most perfect. A lot can be fixed on it, but I think it's an important decision to go through with it. I think it's important that we all understand that we're sitting in one boat, that that's a national issue, so the national economy, the state's interest, that there aren't some who would like to follow their individual interest. It's a concept of our country's social and political order. The decision to go with this law is the right thing to do. As he will be evaluated during application, we'll see. It can be corrected. In any case, it is important that we get an efficiency-based economy that is able to provide jobs and a decent life for all those in Serbia who want to work. I think that's what this law provides, and that's why I suggest you vote for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9878	I thank the Prime Minister. Do the representatives of the committees in charge want a word? There's a word from MP Zivica Predojev, as chairman of the Industry Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9879	I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable members of the Government, as chairman of the Committee on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Industry, that this committee, as the parent board of the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, has considered it its duty and obligation, has since the beginning, since the Ministry has presented its concept of privatisation, participated in the work of the Ministry and has tried to help the ministry create a concept, or a proposal for a law on privatisation. Whether or not he has succeeded, the ministry will declare that. We consider it an obligation to pass on our opinions to the National Assembly, and that would come down to the following: Before you make a decision on this law, think carefully about where we are and what is around us. Think about what's surrounding us, what we have right now, what we don't have. I think it's the simplest and the best. I'm not going to talk about the law, but I'm going to try to tell you something about how we in the Industry Committee saw it. The fact is, at this point, we have nearly 30% of the people at the employment offices, so the unemployed. It's also a fact that in most of the category of employees we can have about 50% of a strange category that could be called "apparently employed". It's those people who go to work in the morning so they don't work. I don't think anyone else can afford it and no one else has that category of people. We have about 30 billion foreign debt marks. The pessimists say that debt is much bigger. We have nearly a thousand billion dinars of internal debt. We've got corruption, she's on a very envious level. I think we're among the leading countries in the world. We do, at least we did, when the old law was in force, I wouldn't say privatisation, but transition, we had so-called. an apparent privatisation that looks like a game you can see at any bus or train station... Three boxes of matches and balls. ) That was also the story of a very fair transition of the social economy in private ownership. Well, then when that procedure is over, no one lives knows who owns it. We have an example of Zrenjanin, and in the discussion, someone will already say how it ended. What don't we have right now? We don't have the product, we don't have the production. I think it's nicer to say we don't have a product. We don't have a market right now, we don't have capital. If you all think about it seriously, then you're going to have to vote for this law, for the simple reason this law has ambition and a desire to provide a new idea for the country and this economy, the economy. New technology, new capital and new markets. Therefore, this committee, which you have chosen, recommends: vote in favour of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9880	Thank you. I give my word to MP Stanko Kovacevic, who gave an opinion to the Committee on Industry, when voting on his amendment to Article 62.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9881	The Honorable Presidency, respected members of the government, has no dispute that I, as a DOS MP from the Movement for Democratic Serbia, absolutely support the need to pass such a law and support the law basically. As a member of the Industry Committee, I voted for the adoption of the bill, in principle. I have singled out my opinion in the second part of the debate on the debate in particular and, Madam Chairman, I think I should not explain it but when we talk about amendments and when my amendment comes on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9882	Thank you. Mr. Kovacevic, since you singled out your opinion, then we had an obligation to call you. In front of the SRS parliamentary group, the word has been made by MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9883	The law on privatisation before the National Assembly is, in the opinion of the SRS MPs, better than the previous law. And before, he was better than anyone else. That's a fact you have to say. What is good in this law and what is in line with the basic programming definitions of the SRS (for which we have been in favour for ten years)? I'm glad some of the experts behind this bill in the meantime changed their minds. I remember round tables from 1992 when they had a completely different opinion, contrary to this present one. So they have progressed in their profession and their professional training. What's good about this law? It's a good thing privatisation is mandatory, which is armed and is the basic form of privatisation sales. It's important that this sale is above 51%. She's 70% here. It's pretty unrealistic, except for companies that are very attractive, so someone wants to buy a few shares because they bring a secure dividend. Otherwise, the one who buys the company avoids buying more than 51%. It's a good thing there's up to 70%, and somewhere up to 100%, if there's a buyer like that. But they're in the world's rare proportions. Because someone who knows how to operate capital isn't crazy about buying more than 51% of the stock. Everything else is excess. Unnecessarily. It's better to invest somewhere else. What's the basic problem? There's a general, basic problem and a few specific ones that I'm going to put together. The basic problem is not the content of this law, but the fact that you are going to implement this law. That's what worries us, Serbian radicals. So we're not so against these provisions as we are against those who will do it because we know them. What's the problem here? At the beginning of the law, one provision was to define social property as one of the forms of state property. Why? In order for any law not to challenge you before the Constitutional Court, that provision is necessary. And when you put it, because it's not defined anywhere else, in the law that social property is one of the sub-shapes of state property, then the law is not in collegiate with the Constitution, and no one alive can prove that it really isn't. If you treat state and social property equally here, your law can be brought down in the Constitutional Court, because the Constitution of Serbia treats social, state and private, mixed and all forms of property equally. This constitution isn't precise enough. It would be better to stand in the Constitution - state and private, because everything else can be taken under state and private, and what is mixed - it is always known exactly how much is in that mixed state and how much private property. That would be very clever and let the minister consider it until the law is passed. I'm not here to help him, I'm here to criticise the weaknesses of this legal project that he went to parliament with. Another problem -- here some lawyer didn't seem to think seriously when he defined the subject. Well, there are - entities responsible for conducting privatisation, which is fine, agency, action fund, central register etc. It's okay. There are entities and the Ministry and the Government, too, and I don't know why they're not listed. But not long after that, companies are referred to as privatisation entities. It can't. Companies as legal entities can be subjects of economic life. They are legal entities within one state and it is not disputed. But they can't be privatization entities. A privatization entity can be the one who sells and the one who buys. If I sell my horse, my horse can't be a subject. This is where the property is sold, the property. They don't sell people. And that should have been made clear here. You know, there were cases from human history when people were sold, but as slaves. They weren't the subjects of their sales, they were the objects. It's always the subject of selling an object of sale, especially here, when you've corrected what was bad in the previous law, when the state appears as the one that sells. Who's the guy who sells? The one who takes the money. She can't be a privatization entity, and the money from the sale goes to the state and not to her. He tried to introduce such nebulises in his time, so the company sold itself, so the money went to the firm. Someone buys a company, so the money he bought the company stays in the account, like he didn't even pay. There are such forms of privatisation, especially in Republika Srpska, more than here. Or, capitalization is also one of the forms of robbery, which was very common. Now, this law has cleared it up, but you need to be precise and careful, a provision by law, to define it properly. So the company can't be a privatization entity. There's another very serious flaw here. You shouldn't have treated all the companies the same way. There are companies where it's essential that they don't sell themselves, at least not entirely. In the next 20 years, we must not sell more than 49% of electricity and other infrastructure companies at any cost. I don't think we can sell more than 49% of the oil industry. In large cities, the plumbing, the sewerage, must not be sold more than 49% in due course. (Glasses: Why? ) Because there is a huge danger that, depending on market conditions, large infrastructure systems are sold into depletion. To be simply said -- now it's so market value and it's convincing, but it's in defiance of the aspect of social interests and the aspect of what's invested in it. Of course, everyone can say now -- it's in vain when it's no longer worth it today. Tomorrow will be worth more if the privatisation of all other companies is successful, if the economy recovers, if there are large foreign and domestic investments, etc. If the economy rises, it will immediately increase the value of infrastructure facilities. And, secondly, there is a terrible danger that someone on the side, contrary to our interests, is managing what the state cannot do without, such as electricity. That's why. Next, redefine this, it's Article 16, the start of the initiative, etc. It's the rest of the autonomous concept, and you should clean it up in law, to express it differently. It's not bad for the company itself to start an initiative. The company also has a lot of jobs, but these are ongoing businesses in the implementation of privatisation, businesses that are under strict control of the state and these bodies, which the law inauguration, and whose obligations are regulated in the accompanying two laws on the action fund and on the agency. That's why these things should be fixed in time. There are still some problematic parts of the law. For example, this law prejudges the question of denationalisation. It can't be done with this law. This law must be in line with existing legislation, not to express the government's intention to bring new laws to some other, completely separate issues. And what if you don't get past the denationalization law, then in that part, and this law turns out to be ridiculous. You don't have to deal with this issue in this law. If the law on denationalisation accidentally passes, it is already another question, then it will, in another way, be resolved, by a general provision on the availability of money from privatisation, and the possibility of leaving it open. But not that you're expressing your plans here. It's not your party program. It's a law that could possibly be passed by the National Assembly. That's why you should take care of it. This stimulant for company employees and their management...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9884	Mr. Seselj, time, only if you want to put it together.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9885	I'm going to go for the next 10 minutes, because I would like to state in general the basic position of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, by law, otherwise we have a whole series of amendments. In particular, I guess there's going to be an opportunity to say more about it. The stimulant from Article 45 is basically good, because those who start privatisation earlier will have more opportunities for free actions of employees in the company than those who hesitate, delay etc. When it comes to free shares, it would be wise for the same percentage of free shares to be for all companies going into the privatisation process. That's not precise here. Under the provisions of this law, there is an opportunity for one company to be a higher percentage and another a smaller one. Of course, this depends in practice on the particular interest as well. There are companies where even their employees have no interest in owning at least one piece of action. In the matter of free action for citizens, the legislator of this law avoided being specific and elaborated. Only one general provision was left to the government to resolve these issues on its own. The government can only do that with a regulation. This is not a substance that can be regulated by a regulation. This matter has to be regulated exclusively by law. That law has to be complemented. Oh, here's why. First, you didn't consider public service employees. I hope not all public services are privatized. I don't think you're gonna start privatizing schools right now. I'm not saying, maybe 20 or 30 years from now, he'll grow up to be. But we can't predict that far into the future. Today that question is not mature and should not be. Public service employees must in a certain way be equated with employees in companies that are privatised, at least if possible to buy shares, with what can be left to, in order, those who are employed in a particular company, based on the years of their employment, first to buy shares, and then those who are employed in other social services, based on their years of employment, the second part of the shares. This order would not be problematic, but all employees must be able to purchase a corresponding number of actions based on their employment if they already have the right of employees in certain private enterprises. And secondly, when it comes to gunmen, it is pointless to limit now, when it comes to the new category, that the one who is employed, based on years of work experience, gets free action, can now not as a citizen a certain quota of action to get free of charge. That's two separate statuses. Someone's been given a job job job, and don't touch him. Now it can appear as a citizen, because as a citizen, the richest privateer, who has already had certain benefits, will also appear as a citizen. So it doesn't bother him that as a citizen, like any other citizen, he can get the right number of shares for free. It's later from the stock fund, it's after a concrete privatisation. Well, there's no limit to that. So, even the smallest baby, just born, and an old man of a hundred years, as citizens, must, in the event of this privatisation, be equal. It must not be limited here that only a full-time citizen can, because in matters of property, adulthood means nothing, except at his disposal. When you get your age, it doesn't mean anything. The same way a baby gets, even an unborn baby, like a hundred-year-old. In terms of availability, if he is not of age, his tutor, guardian, etc. is appointed. So, absolutely all citizens have to be equal, and you can't be a citizen now, because as a worker, based on his job, he got the right number of actions, to deny the right to receive an additional number of shares as a citizen. Because there has to be some difference between a citizen who's earned a job internship, so, based on a job internship, there's a certain contribution to the state of pay, taxes, etc. And he who did not make such a contribution to the state. There's got to be some difference. Here you are perfectly set up to express this difference, without great damage to the state, because citizens come into consideration for the distribution of these free shares only when the sale is completed, so when all those who have the right to free action, what remains, remains in the action fund, one part goes to all citizens who find themselves living at a certain point, from the smallest baby to the elderly of hundreds of years, and then once and for all, the process is over. That's what makes sense, and I think it would be a good idea for this law to be made clear. What it means is that this law should be professionally completed from the point of view of these remarks. I think these remarks are convincing for every expert and I'm particularly surprised by one question - why did you go to three special laws? Three special laws of this matter are passed in the nature of things when they are not able to do all three at the same time, in fact, that complete matter is regulated, so, as in the past case, the Act on its own transformation was first passed, and then the Act on Agency, and so on, the Act on Action Fund, etc. Since this is such a unique, homogeneous matter, by nature things should be one law. It's no wonder this time a decision has been made to conduct a single debate. It is, as unique, the only possible and possible, in terms of the action fund, and on the matter of the agency. I don't think God knows how many objections, because these are the things that were done the last time, and I mean, pretty well-developed experiences that have been acquired, they're not intrusive. They are precious, and these experiences can only be used to avoid any irregularities in the future. In this case, it should be a unique legal text, comprehensively, logically homogenised, from a legal point of view, and that legal text could then represent one of the basic system laws. It's a good thing this law doesn't have any retroactive provisions, other ministers could learn from this case, because retroactiveness can never be to the harm of who it refers to, but only to its benefit. Unfortunately, we had an example of retroactiveity with résumé. Djindjic's 1994 law, when (not only did Djindjic vote it, but the law was known to him, he was the initiator, and others supported him, supported by those who now arrest him), workers gained a huge percentage of the action free of charge. There was also abuse, there was a lot of things there, but whoever obtained the action free of charge without abuse, no matter how bad the Ante Markovic legal project was, should not have been allowed to take action from him afterwards. Because after that precedent, people lost interest in privatisation. They're privatizing today, getting action, which is free of charge, which they buy, and tomorrow someone's revolving, recalculating and reducing value. This time, when the action is acquired, it must be uncut, if legally acquired. It must be unimpeached and protected from any change in the will of political authorities in the future. What is still good in this law, but not sufficiently elaborated, is the possibility of immediate access to trade in actions. If the stock is the property of its titler, then what would someone limit it to selling? He can sell right now, someone who suspects the value of the stock, can sell all his stock for a beer box. What are you doing to stop someone from doing this? Even from the point of view of general economic interests, it is desirable that such things happen, in order to subsequently result in a concentration of ownership. If someone doesn't want action, and they're entitled to it, well, as soon as they get that right, as soon as they get the proper records of value, they sell it right away. Now, you're basically leaving an opportunity to sell it right now, but you're saying it's going to be sold on the stock market. The problem is that the stock market hasn't actually been set up yet. We don't have the right stock market, and you had to use this law to predict that stock market, to give legal frameworks to the existence of that stock market and its functioning. This means that this law should be completed immediately, while the debate takes place in principle, while the discussion of the details takes place, that your services prepare it and that, as an amendment of the Government, some MPs, etc. I don't want to get involved in this, because I'm not representing your professional legal service, I'm just telling you what should be done, that the law really is complete.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9886	Thank you. The word is given by Mr Branislav Ivkovic, as representative of the parliamentary group (first call).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9887	Good day and respect, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister, the honourable members of the government, I think it's very important to find two key things here at the beginning. First, Serbia has huge social assets. This social property has not yet been sold out, it is worth it, it has special value, given Serbia's geostrategic position, to the importance of their structural directions for Serbia, and there is absolutely a Prime Minister right, that many motives, in addition to perhaps the dubiosis and poor state of certain enterprises, exist because of the country's sanctions and bombing, exist among those who want to invest capital in these areas, because of the country's geostrategic position and the favourableity of infrastructure routes. Social property, as such, exists, and certainly, and it has long been decided, needs to change its purpose, to privatize, because only this social property without the titlekeepers, in fact, has no guardian, or, in fact, had no guardian of its value, the right one, and there was no sense of it. That is why the second finding is important, that there is already a Law on its own transformation. The Law on its own transformation by February gave one major autonomy to companies, that companies and workers in them decide on their transformation. That's why it was called, probably, an autonomous transformation. And in February, it came to this government of the Republic of Serbia, one of its first steps, that it should suspend the process of independent, autonomous transformation of businesses. If it hadn't suspended the process of that autonomous transformation since February, we would have had a large number of companies today that have been well privatised, we would have had a large number with the company's titler, who would know, and how well they know, that their lives and their work, their families, depend on the company they are in. These companies, because they know their technological and manufacturing processes well, know the technology chain, know from whom they were getting re-romitarians, know who their potential buyers are, and how they have been since February, that they have been released in large-scale negotiations on additional investments, on the continuation of privatisation, on joint ventures, on joint ventures, so this story of motivation that this law is being passed in order to boost the investment of foreign capital absolutely does not stand, because it was practically stopped in February 2001. If it were allowed to do so in February 2001, it would now be 400-500 seats in various companies and that private capital, domestic or foreign capital would be present, and investment and the purpose of investment would be discussed, the conditions under which it invests and performs in domestic and foreign markets. So, we would already have both private capital investments and foreign capital among them. It's stopped. Why is it stopped? You know, there's a great scientific field called operational research. In this area there are disciplines called decision-making, mass service theory and in this theory of mass service there are channels, rows of waiting with a limited number, with an unlimited number, there is a narrow throat of production, and that is how the topic, my dear sir, because here it is about traces of ideological society, here it is about political decisions, here it is about political initiatives and it is quite clear why the process of autonomous transition has been stopped and why it came out with this law which, as we can see, is supported by some opposition parties. This law, as such, completely demystifies why the process of autonomous transformation has been suspended. This law says that someone has decided to step forward today in relation to the current law, but step towards total centralisation, towards the total management of the property transformation process. While you were still in the current law, in which the most important part was abolished, you had full freedom of business and workers to make ownership transformation and in it alone was about 70 key enterprises and institutions were obliged to transform under the control of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in this law you have a whip of God, you have a special agency, you have all the structures of the government, the current political authorities it conducts and manages the process of property transformation. There's now a discovery as to why this law is passed. However, the law to be passed is complete and that is said here, in dissonance, but we have already learned that in this assembly, because for this government there is neither the Serbian Constitution nor the Serbian Constitution, and I deeply believe that it will think well of Article 47(2). Serbia's constitution if the UN tribunal is discussed here, but the Serbian Constitution is not respected here in members 64, 55 and 57, which talk about obligation and commitment. The federal constitution is not respected in Article 74, the federal Company Act is not respected, simply everything that was the Constitution and the existing law gives the right to be abolished completely. Who's taking over the whole story? It takes over the actual government of the Republic of Serbia. In many parts this law is completely unclear, deliberate and deliberate, because the Assembly is completely dislocated in the decision-making process. Everything moves to new power centres related to the Serbian government, the agency and the action fund. We're now discovering why an autonomous transformation has been abolished. Now we're finding out what made this decision. However, the big problem with these same operational research, there is a system and information theory, is excess information, lack of knowledge, because can in one place concentrate such knowledge that they will know to suggest, manage, run tenders for the rubber industry, for the drug factory, for the food industry and for the metal complex, for construction? Is he gonna make it? He won't. By the nature of things, it's impossible. Whoever wanted to know everything went to something else called volunteerism. Why did it give up that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has control over which it has the right? Why is the Serbian Parliament being prevented from controlling the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is now working under this law? It is now a question that is for the citizens of Serbia, especially for those workers who, by abolishing the existing law of the possibility of autonomous transformation, have in fact lost their property. Many had far fewer salaries because they invested in building new halls, because they invested in supplying equipment and machinery. Only in the area of construction I know very well how many workers on foreign affairs gave up funds to get new daggers, new cranes, new vibrators, new devices, so that the next job in construction could be arranged. It's their property, they created it. What are you doing with this law? You're the one who dictates that there must be privatisation and that it must be immediately and as soon as possible. The result of this privatisation, immediately and as soon as possible, is a good excess of information, a total ignorance in many technological processes, a lack of knowledge of strategic partners for this type of production, for these enterprises and a practically lower value of the sales price than that that can actually be achieved, because when five million tonnes of chocolate appear, the child will not want chocolate, and when there are two, they will also ask how. The law is an important part of the government's policy and various lobby policies, which disenfranchises companies, disenfranchises, closes and sells. The law is unworked and in many parts unclear. In parts that are clear enough, it is unacceptable because it abolishes the largest number of rights acquired, rights acquired by businesses, rights acquired by employees, rights acquired by pensioners and other citizens. In deliberately unclear parts of the law, the government law transfers a large number of powers to adopt sublegal acts, depriving the Assembly of the possibilities to control this important process and opening the way for an unlimited self-will of the government. Just to remind myself of the seven key rights acquired by this law: 1. the right of the company to issue free shares up to 60% of the company's capital, 2. is limited to the right to broadcast free shares in auctioned privatisation to 30, 20 or 10%, 3. in privatisation through a tender for free action of employees in a given company with 60% is now limited to only 15%, 4. the right of citizens outside the specific enterprise to apply for free shares in each company, 5. the right of employees to receive free internships in other companies, 6. the right of employees to free action in the dinar equivalent of 400 marks falls to 300 marks, and later on 150 marks. Perhaps most interesting, I don't want to spend other and third 10 minutes, because I leave myself the right to react to other exposures, is the position of the labour market. This is about speeding up production. We've had a steady decline in production in the last eight months. Production in April and May this year is much lower than in April and May last year. Exports are even 30% lower. (Milka Marinkovic: Don't knock.) Are you going to warn the lady, lady?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9888	I ask the MPs not to receive the speaker, and your time is up, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9889	Thank you very much. I'm glad the ladies recognize themselves. We have a constant decline in production. Only in December and January did 52,000 workers lose their jobs. So it's clear that the trend of the unemployed is increasing. Therefore, the position of the Republic Labour Market Office is a crucial and applied law on its own transformation The Republic Labour Market Office has had a special privilege in order to carry out...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9890	Mr. Ivkovic, 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9891	I'm finishing up, 40 minutes he was speaking to the government's representative, and the prime minister is 25.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9892	It's not true, and secondly, you have limited time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9893	What's going on? The Republic Labour Market Office was supposed to requalify and create a chance of hiring those who would lose their jobs. This law also abolishes those 25% for the Republic Labour Market Office.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9894	I give my word to Mr Pelevic, as president of the parliamentary group, first call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9895	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, I would like to begin by thanking Minister Vlahovic, who initiated a meeting with the parliamentary group of the SSJ on the consideration of this bill, and at that meeting we pointed out that he is one of the basic political principles of the SSP privatisation and market economy. So, in principle, we accepted this law as a good idea and as a good basis for the introduction of privatisation, i.e. market economy in the Republic of Serbia. At that same meeting, we asked the Honorable Minister Vlahovic to deliver a bill to our parliamentary group so that we could, on our Committee on Economics and on our Committee on Legislative Affairs, discuss this law and make concrete remarks on this law. Unfortunately, we have received a final proposal for this law on privatisation and on the action fund, and our Committee on Economics and Legislatives has consulted many other organisations that are responsible for these issues, and in particular with the Yugoslav Association of Accountants, the following data have been obtained. On the proposal for a law on privatisation, the Soviet Union has a large number of objections, both legal and economic. We believe that the constitutions in force at the level of Yugoslavia, Serbia, and the federal laws that regulate this matter should have been consulted previously and that only after consultation of these laws, and after all, only then to pass this law, because this bill is contrary to many provisions of both federal and republican law, the Constitution, as well as some other federal laws. I will list only a few members of this law that are contrary to the constitutions, as well as federal law, especially the federal law on the basis of changes in the ownership of social capital. Article 3 paragraph 2 of this proposal provides that the sale of assets or parts of assets can be made and that this is considered to be a change in the ownership of social, i.e. state capital, although this is a classic example of the nationalisation of assets not provided for by our constitutions. Also, in Article 14. The draft law provides that Privatisation entities with social capital are obliged to carry out the privatisation procedure for a maximum period of four years from the date of entry into force of this law. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Constitution also included social property as one of the forms of property. Therefore, I think that even under federal law, changing the ownership of social capital is not an obligation, but an option, which is self-determined by companies. I don't want to defend the existence of social property, but I want to say that this is still contrary to the federal law on the basis of the change in ownership and the federal constitution. In Article 16. The proposal for this law provides that the privatisation initiative can also be launched by thealiminism agency responsible for privatisation operations, and that the company must act on this initiative, contrary to Article 5 of the federal law, which requires the company to decide independently on a change in the ownership of social capital. In Articles 26, 34 and 36. The bill provides for the sale of assets, i.e. capital, public tender and auction, to be organised and implemented by the agencies, contrary to the Federal Company Act, under which companies organise and implement the sale of assets, i.e. capital. Therefore, the problem of disagreement with the constitutions and federal laws had to be resolved previously, in particular on the constitutional obligation that the law adopted must be agreed with existing and valid constitutions and federal laws. The privatisation law should also follow the adoption of the law on denationalisation. There are a million and a half citizens in Serbia who, on various grounds, demand to return their assets seized by nationalisation, confiscation or expropriation. There is also the League for the Return of Such illegally seized property of citizens. Therefore, such a law was first to be passed, and only then to approach the adoption of privatisation laws. When the privatisation process relates to assets taken from natural and legal persons, by applying laws in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, so mainly by nationalisation and confiscation, then the privatisation of this property is carried out under special laws and regulations that had to be passed earlier, before this law. The land and buildings that have been taken away return to previous private owners and their successors in the current physical form. If the land and construction facilities are damaged and their value is reduced, the state would have to pay the former owners back on the basis of the established difference. When grounding and building facilities increase value, this should be considered to be compensation for former owners during their non-use of property, hence their direct damage caused by it. I think it is very important to put into the existing bill and provision that would protect strategically important businesses in Serbia, which are of great importance to all citizens of Serbia. Companies that safeguard the integrity and sovereignty of our country, such as electricity, water, such as state media and many other enterprises that have strategic importance for all citizens of Serbia and for the state of Serbia. In these companies, capital capital should be foreign capital, but domestic capital. We also believe that the bill is full of deficientness, indetermination and difficulty, and if such, if there are no serious corrections in the debate in particulars, eventually adopted, it can have a quite opposite effect from what was declared and instead of the promised we would get total poverty from most of our citizens and turn the country into a colony, adapted to modern conditions... I will list only a few examples that could have very bad consequences if this law were passed. The first is the lack, or indetermination of the social component in this law. As most ministers said, and distinguished Mr. Vlahovic, the fact is that by privatising several hundred thousand citizens will be out of work. It is not stipulated in the law that requalification will be carried out, how social security will be provided by workers who will be left without a job. Also today, the prime minister in his opening exhibition said that the government does not have a magic wand and that it cannot be predicted at this time in our budget that the full security of social cases that will arise after the adoption of this law. Secondly, not giving priority to our citizens, i.e. Serbian citizens are also one of the lacks of this law, and I particularly think of agriculture. You know that many agricultural producers participated in the construction and operation of agriculture and that they should now be given priority in the purchase of agri-industry facilities, because they participated in both their work and their capital, and in collaboration with agriculture. The transfer of funds achieved by selling shares of privatisation entities and the paid dividends, the payment account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, is also a problem for me. I think that privatisation funds should primarily be paid back to businesses through specific banks that would do so and I think that at this point, the government should repay all those employees who worked in their businesses from 1992 to today, create their own businesses, maintain their lives, and during that time have not had adequate compensation or very often had no salary. I think it's a good time that some of the funds that would have come from privatizing these companies must have been directed to those workers, who have been loyal to their factory all along, who have worked, who have kept it alive, who have been inadequately paid or have not been paid at all. I don't think the Supervisory Board, both in the Action Fund and in the Privatisation Agency, can be appointed by the competent ministry, or by the government. I believe that these supervisory committees should be appointed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on a parity basis. This would result in the control that Minister Vlahovic wished, in his presentation to the National Assembly, of the work of the privatisation agency and the action fund. Furthermore, I think the funds for the establishment of the privatisation agency, as well as for its work, must be realised exclusively from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and not from donations, not from sponsors, from the contributions of domestic and foreign persons, as in this respect the question is that they will do their job impartially, correctly and fairly, if they are paid by the same persons who will participate in tenders and auctions. The Serbian Unity Party voted yesterday for the Law on Taxation of Extra Profit and Extra Income, because we believe that all those who have acquired their wealth by misusing their privileges and the official position should be punished by taxation. We believe and believe, especially after the adoption of our amendments and amendments to some other political parties in this assembly, that this law is just. But we also believe that this law is not fair, above all, against workers who work in companies that will be privatised and the Serbian Unity Party will not vote in favour of this law unless the debate on the details of the law has improved so much that it deserves to be voted on by members of the Serbian Unity Party. I also believe that this law, as Mr Vlahovic said, is not crucial to economic reform, I fear that it will be a crucial problem in creating even greater social problems in Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9896	He has the word Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9897	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is the role of the opposition to criticise the government's initiative, but at the same time, it is the role of the opposition to take care of the state of society in this criticism, because we are finally as a government and as an opposition responsible for what is happening in the country right now. It is true that several times in the last ten years, Serbia has been trying to solve a problem that itself stemmed from the ideological character of society, which existed almost half a century. Therefore, the importance of this law cannot be less than the importance of the laws that changed the essence of society in 1945, which was then characteristic of our country and the relations that then evolved over the next five decades. In 1990. In 1991, 1994 and 1997, authorities in this country tried to ratify this political heritage, but at the same time to retain all those levers and instruments of political power, which will allow them to manage these societies as their predecessors managed and to preserve their own positions. I have noted several remarks, which I would like to comment on and then say what are the concrete and positive consequences of the adoption of this law. It's about stopping the investment. The privatisation law that we propose is not a law that represents a barrier to investment. It is a law that monitors political change in society, opening doors in the economic sense of this country. Today, the Ministry of Education is obliged to create and implement enrolment policies in high school and colleges. I'll tell you a part of the analysis: the largest number of applications is in those schools and in those colleges that allow you to go abroad. If our children want this world, we have no right to hold them back, but at the same time we are obliged to open the doors of this society to them, so that this world can reach them. In the last 10 years 400,000 citizens of this country have left here, under circumstances that are known and a policy that was the way it was. When we say that 70% of social and state capital is privatized in such a way that it is possible for a foreign investor to show up as a buyer, we open the door to the possibility of finally returning after 10 years and those who have left. The acquired rights existed, but these acquired rights were imposed. Surely, citizens did not vote 1.5 billion dollars in accumulated losses in 1994. - In 2000. It's a characteristic of our economy. When we talk about working relationships and those who have lost their jobs, it should be said that 980,000 citizens are currently working in non-leading enterprises, that 700,000 people are out of work, that 40,000 companies are bankrupt. When we talk about insider privatisation, about sharing shares, we talk about losing, we're not talking about dividing quality and profit. According to the existing, or suspended Privatisation Act, Simpo, Progress was privatized. Where are the investments? No, it's just that those who were in a position to do what's called capitalization, which is mentioned by one of the representatives of the opposition, do something that in itself is the essence of privatisation, but at the same time in itself and the direct consequence of what we want to change today. The result of a corrupt operation, which can practically involve a transfer of ownership, but not a change. It is important to say that this law does not run away from the essence of the problem we are talking about today. This law does not run away from the fact that it is inevitable to respect the unmerciful laws of the market, which respect only market values. According to the 1997 law, the state determined the value of actions through the state agency. These actions were worth 28% at the time of their formal definition, so 10,000 DM, how much the worker was getting on his hands, actually at that point was worth about 3,000 DM. Today we are talking about 30% that will be distributed to the employees and citizens of this society, but 30% gain, 70% or 60% loss. Privatisation entities are state and social capital. It's hard to make a logical difference, because according to the rule of law, the state has always played a key role in companies where it was formally dominant social property. But we don't have time to change federal laws, the federal constitution, the republican constitution, because our society is rapidly failing. This is a country where an employee supports an unemployed person who receives a salary like that. This is a country where 970,000 people work in non-proliferation companies, 750,000 people are on forced vacations, 700,000 people are out of work, a country with 800,000 refugees, a country with an external debt of around 25 billion marks, with an internal debt of 28 billion marks. These are the reasons why they forced us into such a quick procedure. The most important thing in the privatisation process is to take real political moves and not to be afraid of those criticisms that follow such a thing. At the same time, it is very important to ensure that the process is controlled in the privatisation process. We're not running away from that control. You have no arguments to comment on, which goes to the government, to avoid Parliament's control. No decision by this parliament has been ignored by the government, nor has any Parliament initiative been bypassed by the government. Yesterday we passed a law that defines very large freedoms in this regard control of the government's activity in the process of collecting taxes on extra profits and extra profits. In the privatisation process, we insist on something like this, we invite you to control us, but at the same time we will not run from all those indicators, which talk about our critics today. To say that we have passed a law that will destroy and bring down workers is more than hypocritical in a country where 45% are unemployed, it's more than hypocritical. We will not destroy anyone, we will tell the people the truth, which they know very intimately. In privatisation processes, there are no privileged ones and those who need to be given some special, extra attention. It is true that we will pay attention, but not through the law, but through the application of that law. Those companies, which have failed for the last ten years and are now worth much less than what would be their value in a single society in two, three or four years as we believe they will be. That's why they won't be privatized by those big state systems, which today are worth much less. In this way we will run a kind of social policy, which in itself does not have much to do with economic logic, as imposed by the privatisation law. The most successful countries in privatisation were countries that respected the logic of the market and faced social justice logic, Estonia and Hungary. Big problems today are trying to solve the authorities in the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Slovenia, where the privatisation model was a voucher model, where actions were shared for workers. These companies had a certain value at the time, so they weren't in a problem that our companies are in today. But what does it mean to share actions with workers, the Simpo action, which owes seven million dollars in taxes at this point? What does it mean in the agricultural complex to share employees in the PKK company's action, which is 40 million marks? What does it mean to give the flag actions to the workers, to divide the builders of the Rada action, which is in bankruptcy? It is a political demagogy, which aims to avoid, on the one hand, determining responsibility for the situation in society, and on the other hand, an attempt to exploit what is necessarily followed by the privatisation process, which is defined as a painful social process. We're not afraid of all the conconsequences that will follow the passing of this law, we think this law is good. Finally, all those who analyzed it recognized in it what is the essence of the privatisation law, which is giving up all the forms and models of ownership that have proved to be unnatural and unspective over the past 50 years. Today, Serbia is discussing something that the countries, which were in an economic sense incomparably stronger, discussed 10 or 11 years ago. None of these countries today live worse. They live better. The privatisation and transition went through both the Czech Republic and Slovakia, and Hungary, and Romania, and Bulgaria and Russia. Look at the state of their economy and look at the state of ours, which has not done such a thing. We have no reason to fear the privatisation laws, but they have reason to fear those who have hidden their incompetence in the past 10 years behind something like that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9898	Thank you. There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj. (Third communication as president of the SRS parliamentary group. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9899	I would immediately use my right to a third 10 minutes since I am awaiting an unforgiving obligation in the Federal Assembly to bring down the Hague tribunal law. So as not to be dissipated between the republic and the federal parliament, and it is good while the minister is still there, he may benefit from these remarks and messages if he wants the law to be good. In this law, it is conditionally provided that the bonds of old foreign exchange savings can also be purchased. However, an illogical determination has been given that should be deleted. It is foreseen here that only payment bonds can be used immediately, and the rest only if the privatisation fails by selling, so that they can be sold from the stock fund of the remaining stock. This isn't good. Why? It's not good from the aspect of the Constitution or the legal order. Because these bonds are not something that the citizens, who have the old foreign savings wanted, but the state has imposed on them. And it's the state's fault she ran out of these foreign exchanges, so she can't repay the savings the way she vouched for it. The state once trampled its guarantee, and then the state had to go for good. Then the state had to sell its property to pay it back. The state has avoided it, you can't do it further if you want one serious law. Because the bond regardless of when it's chargeable, it's chargeable from the aspect of state opportunity. It can't be invulnerable with us because this is exactly one of the state's options foreseen by the federal law on the return of old foreign currency savings. The federal law predicted that old foreign savings could be returned to the privatisation process earlier, by selling state assets, etc. Therefore, this restriction must not exist. You must delete it if you want your law to be in accordance with the Constitution and federal laws. Also, if you want to stick to the basic principles of the legal order. So whoever has the old foreign savings can immediately, with the full amount, participate in the privatisation process. It's the only solution that's right. Secondly, here you have neglected, although both the Prime Minister and the minister stressed as their obligation to regulate by law how you will prevent an increase in the number of unemployed. There must be a provision here that someone who buys sign a guarantee that they won't reduce the number of employees, and on the grounds that they get a certain discount from buying. So, the price of a factory is $100 million, you get that factory by 80 million, but you sign that you're not going to cut the number of employees. That's one good guarantee. It's better to give a discount to someone who comes in with capital and knows what they're going to do with the factory and the guarantee for these workers, than to the unsuspecting social funds that are going to take care of these workers and, ultimately, the workers are going to poop out of that worry. Social funds turned out to be no protection for workers. Rarely a worker can be satisfied. The third remark I would make in the principle debate did not make sure that there are about 10,000 enterprises in Serbia in social or state property. The government can't control all this, not this agency of yours, not the Ministry. That's why you had to introduce one provision, you could also read the legal project submitted by the SRS, several times unsuccessfully in the Serbian government, so it was included in the assembly session's agenda in October, so it was never the turn to discuss and vote. You should have given authority to local self-governments, for example, for companies up to a hundred employees, that they do the job in accordance with this law, and you just from time to time to control whether they strictly adhere to the provisions of the law. They should be stimulated if they successfully sell to a company with 100 employees, that the money is dedicated to the municipal budget and that it can only be used to build municipal infrastructure. This would be one smart solution that would relieve the agency of these smallest companies that are the largest. So you don't have to worry about them, that local self-government is doing it, but that she's under strict control by the agencies. There's already been an ideological quarrel over the Constitution. I'd look back on that one more time. Of course, this ideological quarrel here regarding ideological treatment of social property can be avoided. It would then avoid the danger of the Constitutional Court declaring the law on this basis unconstitutional, by making it clear for the first time in this law: what is social property. No one else has defined it, perhaps ideologically, but we are not interested in it (Cardelle and others). This law has a chance to officially define social property first, to say it is a sub-format of state property. Then it will not be contrary to the Constitution, nor to the Federal or the Republic. Especially the Republic, because the federal doesn't mention social property, and the republican mentions it. In that case, from the aspect of the Constitution, everything is clear, everything is clear. There's no capable, serious lawyer who can take that down. There is no lawyer who will be able to prove that social property is not a sub-shape of state property. Our goal is to completely disappear, because social property is nonsense. There's no lawyer who can objectively say it's their own form at all. It's a catastrophic, cardiotic invention. It doesn't exist anywhere in the world. When someone in the West tells you social property, he means state property. Socially, it's state-owned. It's state-of-the-art. Because the state is the legal segment of society as an abstraction, it's the legal volume of society, it's the legal framework of society. She's the title of everything that's social. The state on behalf of society has both rights and obligations. So the state is company. What kind of society is that? That's his country. That's how it's always been, from time to time. I would also like to emphasise the importance of the specific treatment of the infrastructure system. That's the most important thing in this law. Now that I've just potentiated that question, I'm just going to point out one specific example. What is the difference between an objective price, from the aspect of how much a certain system means to us and from how much it is invested in that system, and possibly market prices. For example. Electro-priority. It's objectively worth 60 billion marks. The experts have already agreed on this. Now, someone with a purely economical approach can say that it's pointless to talk about 60 billion marks when you can't sell to anyone at that price, when at this point it can't be a market price. But then the question is, do I really have to sell it? Because you have a house, for example, a minister, and your house is worth 200,000 marks. Now someone tells you it's no longer worth 100 grand, but you say I don't want to sell it. (Glass: But if you need money.) ) They do not need so much desperate money to sell electricity for three billion marks, because those who are outside the DOS have so far participated in preliminary talks on the sale of electricity mentioned an amount, such as Labus, of three billion marks. I don't think there's a serious man in this country who would agree to sell electricity for three billion marks now, no matter how much the crisis is. Because selling for three billion marks to an electricity industry that is objectively worth 60 billion marks would be crazy. That's why. That's why there must be such a clause in the law. You see, you questioned the sale of 49% of Telekom. When it was sold to Telekom, 1996-1997, there was no living man who would achieve a higher price than a billion and a half marks. He's gone. (Glass: Why wasn't it public. ) Which didn't go public because of the blockade and sanctions, and that's another thing. You know, maybe there was a crime and bribery. That's what you investigate, so find out who took the bribe. That's another thing. But, objectively, in those conditions of blockades and sanctions, no one would sell alive for more than a billion and a half. Fortunately, it wasn't 51% sold, it was 49%. You're asking why we artificially held a six-dollar mark for a single mark. Because at the moment that you would even that course with a real one, it took five or six times to jump just the price of the phone. Now you'll see, you've already announced 60% of this year's collection of telephone services. Now you'll see what it means in some market conditions that we're not used to, when it's beating on all sides, and when you don't know how to mate. You'll only see it now. So, what's important in this case, if the government really wants a resolute minister, that we have one serious law, then, without any prejudice, first access to a serious analysis of the objections to this law. If they really want the law to be good, they'll take all the serious objections, if they don't want it to be good, then the law will last as long as their government does, and it won't be long. I advise them to outlive their government, so they'd have something to brag about later.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9900	If no more of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answer for a word, and authorized by the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by the MP Arsen Kurjački. After him, let the People's Messenger Predrag Mijailovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9901	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished members of the government, respected fellow MPs, changes in this troubled and bereaved country, changes that have been waiting for nearly six decades, did not begin on October 5th. Then only conditions were created to finally begin with the changes. The first and primary beginning begins with the return of the kidnapped property, the compensation of the robbed, the promotion of private property as sacred. It is necessary to remove the social property, which does not exist anywhere in the world, and which is the source of corruption, nepotism and theft, all that followed this past year. It's not just about the rights of former owners, it's about our entire future that we can't base on breaking the law and extending the former wrongs. A modern state declaring a multi-party system, a free market, privatisation and universal human rights and freedoms must provide a central place for a citizen and private property. This "set" of privatisation laws finally begins with this process. Therefore, we need to make a law on privatisation that will not suffer frequent subsequent changes and additions, similar things, because this law carries out a permanent transition from one kind of ownership of capital and property to another kind of ownership. This law is passed only once and will have an important impact on the fate of our people and the state in general, and we believe that the proposed laws should be as clear and precise as possible. To define such laws, we have prepared a series of constructive remarks, without which we believe that application, implementation and interpretation of these laws will not be effective. One of the most important remarks is the participation of the Republika Srpska Assembly in the privatisation process. The bill does not mention the role of the Assembly anywhere, and everything is left to the government, the ministry and the agency. If we do not regulate these laws, because it is not in the spirit of the constitutional jurisdiction of the Assembly, as the representatives of the Government suggest, it is necessary to form a permanent assembly commission. They will monitor and control all segments of the privatisation process, and report it periodically. The Privatisation Act should provide for the obligation of compensation of victims of the communist regime, primarily by returning previously seized property, or by giving the right of choice between assets like now or cash compensation, to the maximum level of justice. We of the DSS have advocated that the law on the return of property be in the procedure in this Assembly at the same time as the privatisation law. For technical reasons it has not been implemented, but it must be next in the next debate, in order to divulge all those doubts that the former owners will also be damaged from this authority. In order to decentralisation and regionalisation, as declared in the reform programme, it is necessary to provide that certain funds from privatisation are directed towards areas where privatisation entities are located. These resources would be used to raise the infrastructure capabilities of these areas, to resuscitate environmental pollution and others. The bill provides for extremely mild penalties for all possible malfeasances in the implementation of privatisation, which is inadmissible, as this is the most important process that must be implemented inescapably, for our ancestors, and especially for descendants. The law does not provide for deadlines for the establishment of a central and privatisation register. We believe that the precision of these deadlines is extremely important and that the sale of capital and distribution of shares should not begin before these registers are formed, because the up-to-date monitoring and recording of sold and distributed actions can only prevent abuses that are possible as a result of an unsustainable and inefficient data processing system. The deadline for the distribution of actions from the privatisation register (transmissioned without compensation to citizens), is also not specified in the draft of this law, and it is unclear when citizens will become owners of these actions and gain the rights that come from them. It should be more precise to determine what cannot be the subject of privatisation, because the concepts are now too broadly defined. Although there are assurances from the government's representatives that some other laws have been accurately regulated, we haven't yet convinced ourselves. Therefore, all these remarks should not be viewed as some baseless criticism, but rather as a wish for this very important law to be defined in a better form, so that we do not experience its permanent changes, complements or do not give God, abuses in the future. Democratic Party of Serbia MPs will support these laws in principle. But in the amendments, we're going to try to fix them as much as possible and bring them closer to our programming assignments, which we've been up against for years. Depending on that, of course, we'll also be clear about the laws in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9902	The People's MP Predrag Mijailovic has the word, followed by the MP Ljubovoje Slavovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9903	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected representatives of the government, the Privatisation Bill is one of the system laws, as well as a law on denationalisation, which should simply lead to a break-up with the old communist system. We should have done this much earlier, I was even present in this House when different laws and regulations were passed in 1991, and later in 1994, but they didn't even carry out, although today we hear from some of these speakers that someone denied them. They regret the time from February 2001 to today. So those who were supposed to implement them didn't do it for practical reasons. Why would they work when they ran the property themselves? Now they suddenly remembered for these four -- five months that they could take that property, simply, for free, and finish the job, that they would become the owners of that property, and as soon as you own it -- in whose hands is wealth and money, there is power in those hands. That is why some MPs in the former system regret this period, and fortunately, that period has passed. The previous system in the last 10 years didn't want to do it for another practical reason, because it couldn't cut the umbilical cord with communism, because it's simply a product of that system and regime, but not to deal with that previous system. I know that the law on privatisation and the law on denationalization is intertwined because of our past. I belong to a group of people, or a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia, who thinks the law on denationalisation should first be passed, only then the law on privatisation, but these two laws can be implemented parallelly. For me, to explain some of the things that give me hope, it's a good thing this privatisation law doesn't include land, houses, apartments, bars and all those assets that haven't suffered a physical change. That's what I'm saying, and a little bit to calm down the former owners, which doesn't mean that they shouldn't adopt certain amendments given by the Democratic Party of Serbia, which would make this even better, and that's what we're going to do in the negotiations, or here in the assembly. I also know that no 50-year injustice can be corrected against all former owners and not a hundred laws can correct an injustice, but surely this law and the law on denationalisation will partially correct, or in most cases correct. Once again, we need to know, and to tell the citizens of Serbia -- by adopting these laws, it will not be milk and honey. It's clear to all of us here, but it has to start with something, even if it's painful, by someone and unfairly. That there will be no abuse of this part of the law and that this law has thought about people after all, that it is trying to correct injustice, firstly I will say that there are funds in Article 60 to use for the pension fund, 10%, and that means there will be no action, no securities, but, as far as I understand it, there will be living money. Then, encouraging development which is most important to me, because with the incentive to develop what do we get? We'll get new jobs, new technology and employment, and, if God does, the return of people from abroad. Then compensation will be paid for damaged persons, i.e. the property that is nationalized, which is very important for those of us who advocate it should first be a law on denationalisation. We must each ask ourselves what we get by adopting this law, and what we lose if we don't adopt that law. We in Serbia all know that with this law we will surely get the title of property, as the Serbs say - the boss. No boss would be called the boss in Serbia if he didn't think about his property, and hence internal and external, as they say - strategic partners, or people who want to give money, have someone to talk to. He'll simply be talking to a man, a boss or an asset holder. What else is gonna happen? Once again, which is very important to me, that definitely the head of Serbia's economy will come to a wise, moral, wealthy people, and as soon as wise, moral and wealthy people head the country, then the entire economy must be launched. Let's see, what's often said here, what they get, what they lose the workers. All of us here need to know that we have lived for 50 years in a communist system and have very often dealt with demagogy as to what the workers will tell us. I'll say, workers will first of all get safe jobs, those who have and will certainly have profitable businesses, where they will have safe jobs. Then, in article 46 on actions, each worker will receive 40 to 150 marks, depending on the time when the company is privatized, but it will not be worthless papers, but will be living money, if I understand correctly. Then, it will invest in the economy and normally create new jobs. Moreover, as is very important to me, workers will be able to organise strong union associations, as is the case everywhere in the appropriate industrial world, so that these trade unions will no longer deal with social packages, but will try to negotiate with the holder of property and with the government their better working conditions and better wages. By the way, we brothers, we would bring economy into world economic flows, we would move forward with the world. If we didn't, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we'd just go in the opposite direction of the world, I mean developed and we'd come where we came from, because we've always gone the other way from the world. I don't think we can tolerate it anymore, or wait. I will vote in favour of this law, but especially if amendments given by MPs to the Democratic Party of Serbia are adopted, where government and all participants in the privatisation process are primarily predicted, so as not to be abused. I hope the days of the government, not the MPs, not the people, don't bother anyone. Whether there is a constitutional basis or not, this assembly is the one who can pass laws and sublaws and simply cannot play with it because of credibility and government, and us MPs. In the end, as our bishop, wise Nikolaj Velimirovic, said, and I have used his words before, conditions are created, if God and the conditions, that wise, moral and wealthy people come to the head of this country, and only then will Serbia move forward. So said the wise bishop Velimirovic, and I hope to experience it, and if not - at least my children.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9904	The word has a People's MP Ljubvoje Slavkovic, followed by a National MP, Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9905	My fellow Members and fellow MPs, Mr Minister, I would venture to say that today's law project in front of the Serbian Parliament is the most important legislative project that has entered the parliamentary procedure of the Republic of Serbia since 1945. Why do I think that? I believe that by changing the titleholders, it will be important to change our relationship, from the foundation, our relationship to the property that has been everyone's so far, and then when we bring it to the senselessness of becoming no one's. Two, in my opinion, are the primary objective to achieve this concept of privatisation. First, the change in ownership relations, i.e. the clearly defined titleholders of property, and the second, equally important goal, without which we will miss first, and that is the inflow of capital. If the concept of privatisation doesn't attract capital, first of all, then we're the first target, which is why we started this business, in my opinion, we completely missed. The second goal, i.e. the secondary objective of this legal project, is to break up ideological delusions about living in a world of social property, the property that everyone, who was managed, was somewhat capable of, and more incompetent ideologically defined, which we slightly destroyed, a little steal, a little robbed, brought to an end, and to be no one's. Secondly, this is a final break-up with the agreed economy, and then probably after the entry into force of this law and its practical application, the electronic industry and television factories will be able to buy a cathode pipe, not in another factory where 50% is more expensive, but where it is cheaper, because then they will determine primarily the economic interest, who will work with, and not the political agreement and direction. Third thing, this law will finally break our delusions where we have socially valuable assets. The market is the only measuring factor that needs to determine what's worth it and what's not worth it. I assure you, and until recently I was in the management of a large system in Nis, in every factory who wants to invest capital must first spend a few hundred thousand marks to resuscitate the roof, then enter and resuscitate technology, to resuscitate people who are far below the knowledge of world personnel, and only then think about profit and profit. For that reason, I think that the market should determine the value, even if it was one dollar, even if it was something markety, or financial, does not mean anything, but on the other hand, it means the interest of foreign capital. What is the privatisation process from the social aspect? It's a painful process that needs to actually only verify our existing state of affairs, about the real number of people employed. I'm going to take the "Electron Industry" back to Nis, which has about 10,000 workers, only one third of them coming to work, and probably not one third of them have the subject of work. For this reason, we must only verify this law, that in this system and in another system, there is only one third of the work, and that other workers who have otherwise found their way elsewhere, must only verify the existing situation, with the existence of a serious social programme that should monitor this kind of privatisation process. It is clear that such a legal project and that the concept of privatisation, as the government has imagined and what is contained in the law, carries certain dilemmas, perhaps injustices. Compared to the previous law, I think it's a significant advantage, no matter what it's pretty liberal. I advocate an even more liberal approach, even on the concept of privatisation, for reasons that I said a little while ago, that we break the delusions that we have valuable businesses, valuable infrastructure, and that's what the market will say best. The previous privatisation law, which guaranteed workers 60% of free shares, is actually returning to the small door of self-government. What is significant at one point when workers become owners of 60% of shares, and these same workers are organised in one union, and at one point it becomes that workers through the union, in fact, become majority owners of actions, and employers themselves. Also, the previous Law on Ownership Transformation provided opportunities, but in fundamentally managerial transformations, so that a number of actions buy people who run the company, become majority owners. What's behind that? Behind that again, a company that does not have fresh capital, and I think that the basic intensity of the privatisation process is to move into our entities, first of all, one quality capital. The existing legal project carries some amount of injustice, or a dose of danger, whether it will be realized by the end. It is, in my opinion, concentration and procedures and financial resources in one place, but I think that the amendments that follow, and what the Agency has imagined and the ministry, will decentralised the privatisation process by education of staff, and that the goal is to transfer as many personnel and as many activities as possible to implement the privatisation process to local self-government, i.e. on the ground where the company is located and to privatise it. The law provides for the possibility of passing and sublegal acts by the government, so it is necessary to point out that in the next activities the government will constantly social dose of this overall programme, or the process of ownership transformation, just for one reason that a good number, before all business, will advocate another story, and which we hear here today, which is purely ideological, with which we finally need to break some delusions, that workers remain without what they have created for years. One dilemma that remains for me, which is that the law does not foresee the possibility of debt turning into action. You know that a month and a half ago we changed a member of the Labour Relations Act that guaranteed workers the right to compensation, between the difference between the lowest labour price and the guaranteed labour price. That's not a small difference. In a large number of companies, workers received judgments in the court procedure in their favour, and when this law started in public debate, workers began to sue the management, i.e. companies, and likely in a number of companies this process would be stopped. Finally, I think that by forming an expert commission by the Serbian Parliament we would put under absolute control and the Agency's work and the ministry's work on privatisation. We believe that it is of paramount importance that this process is done as justly as possible, although there can never be justice in it. And finally, I think it's a special task for the IGF to control the origin of the money that will be purchased by our companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9906	People's MP Milorad Mircic, advertising of the Rules of Procedure, followed by the People's MP, George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9907	I am using the Rules of Procedure's rights to ask the question of quorum and to check the number of MPs present in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9908	I ask the MPs to confirm their presence in the O.R. by their identification. With the identification cards in place, we have in our electronic system a registered 105 or 104i with visual findings that a number of MPs did not exercise their right and obligation to identify, I find that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not have a quorum to work and I set a break until 14.30 p.m. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing our work in the afternoon session with a joint review of the proposal for a law in the area of privatisation. I'm asking the National Assembly to identify whether we have a quorum to work on in the afternoon. I find that we have a quorum for continuing work in the afternoon session. Before I give my word to Parliamentarian George Mamuli according to the Rules of Procedure, who requested this at the end of the afternoon session, I would ask the National Assembly to listen to the notice of the appointment of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of Members of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. A report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of MPs was sent to the MPs to fill the seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Committee, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the Members of Parliament were met, with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MPs Petar Cvetkovic, Miodrag Jaćimovic and Nenada Lemajic, elected from the election list of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate for MPs Petar Cvetkovic, Miodrag Jaćimovic and Nenad Lemajic. [[Applause]] I congratulate the MPs on the election, and I am sure of successful and good co-operation in this mandate of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There is a word from the People's Messenger George Mamul, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9910	Ambassador Mr. Slavkovic has injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 99 of Position 2 and Article 101 of Article 1st indent 6. Namely, speaking of social property, he said that we were all a little incompetence, a little stealing, a little robbing. I think that so that no one can speak in the Rules of Procedure, no one has authorized him to speak on behalf of all MPs in such a way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9911	In view of the comments made, it refers to the fact and assessment, relating to the private life of other persons and if it is interpreted as being related to us, I agree, I did not warn the MP that the names listed by those who robbed, stole, when it comes to social property, but would probably then exceed the time for discussion, so that I can only conclude that the Rules of Procedure has been violated and that I ask the MPs to take care of the claims, the assessments, the courts they bring to their performances. There is a word from MP Nebojsa Jovic, followed by MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9912	The honourable MPs, the privatisation law, with the accompanying laws on the privatisation agency and the action fund, which are ahead of us, should solve the problem of social and state property. If he'll do it, we'll see. In what economic and political conditions will apply, at this point it is really difficult to say, given what our political reality is. The privatisation minister says the law will be applied in three parts. The first segment would consist of selling a number of companies to a public tender. This refers to companies that can be successfully sold or companies that have to enter a slightly longer restructuring process. What is offered by this sale or better to say what the sale offers in a public tender? It offers to sell 70% of shares, while 30% of shares would remain for the division of employees and citizens. In the second segment, there would be companies that would be sold by auction. These include small and medium-sized enterprises, with the non-refundable share of the capital intended for sale. The rest of the capital would be sold through the stock fund. Companies, which the government is not interested in, which is a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises, should be stimulated by the law's proposal that it is 400 marks if privatisation is completed within 18 months and distributed to workers for each full year of work, 300 marks if privatisation is completed within 18 to 30 months and 150 marks if the sale is carried out within more than 30 months. The transfer of shares to employees would take place by selling 30% through a public auction within 18 months, 20% within 18 to 30 months and 10% in more than 30 months. This is where we come to the true truth, which is to prevent the majority participation of privatisation employees in all companies. This law, in relation to the law that has been in force so far, abolishs the company's right to broadcast free shares up to 60% of the company's capital. In privatisation through the tender, free shares of employees in the given company are limited to 15% of the company's capital. The right of citizens outside a specific company to apply for free actions in each company is lifted, the right of employees to receive free internships in their company achieved in other companies. The right to issue free shares before the sale of 70% of the company's capital is abolished and the right of employees to free shares is completely abolished unless 50% of the company's capital value is sold. Most drastically, the bill provides for the abolition of the right to participate in a further free division of all those citizens, who have used at least one share per year of work through previous privatisations under the old law. This way there is discrimination, terrible discrimination, and thank God that the threats of a whole series of privatisations have ceased. The bill does not provide for the participation of local communities in the privatisation process. There are enough amendments in this sense, and I think this assembly will adopt a few amendments, and the privatisation law would take place in a better atmosphere. Not only would Priory act antagonistly, which would indicate that the government is not only declarative for decentralisation, but would be ready to integrate local self-esteem into the privatisation process. Centralised management is particularly seen in the bill, where the role of the privatisation agency is very large. Article 17 provides that the agency and the competent ministry themselves can initiate privatisation. In short, it means that some companies, which are being prepared for privatisation or are in the phase of negotiations with potential partners, will be able to give orders from state authorities that they can access privatisation and deliver a privatisation project within seven days, otherwise the agency will take over the job. This could lead to major problems, and it could bring down the value of companies, which are ahead of making deals with an interested partner. Or, if the agency assesses that an undertaking cannot be sold by tender or auction without restructuring, it can impose a restructuring programme on the company, and on the procedure and way of restructuring will be decided in more detail by the Government. If the agency doesn't like the privatisation programme, which only offered the company, it can return it to completion or correction, which is subject to its approval again. Public auctions are also organised by the agency, or commissions set up by it. The agencies are collecting offers from all businesses and advertising them. Interested persons shall send their offers to the Agency and those made within five days of the end of the time limit for the collection of tenders shall notify the company which is privatised to the method of sale, i.e. the need for restructuring. The Agency's powers are really high, so I wonder why the establishment of a tender commission, which has the president and four members, proposed by the minister, is envisaged, and the tender committee, on a proposal from the agency, approves the results of the public tender. This is a really strange solution, because you can't see what the tender commission is for, even though it will be, I suppose, made up of professionals. When the agency is so powerful, the question arises as to who appoints the Management Board, the Supervisory Board and the Director, and we come to the truth that the Government appoints, as well as in the sense of Article 24, a methodology for assessing the value of capital without it being done by the Ministry. It is interesting that the Serbian Parliament is completely excluded in the decision-making process. Given that the sale of state and social enterprises with numerous consequences on employment and revenues of the state budget, it is strange that the assembly is excluded, if it is excluded that MPs should receive a report on the functioning of the action fund once a year. The funds achieved by the sale of capital in the privatisation process are used to finance the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance, to encourage development, to pay compensation to persons whose property is nationalised, to repay debts to which the Republic of Serbia is bound or guaranteed, the cost of the sale in the privatisation process and other purposes. I think the basis of funding should be to invest funds in a privatisation entity, solve employees' problems, provide business continuity and protect the environment. These are problems that interest people and businesses, and also the state. Authorities - Government, ministry and agencies - can do anything. I can order the company to privatize, restructure, determine the methods of privatisation. Since the process is being centralised, it is no wonder the agency will expand regionally. She'll probably turn into a ministry someday. The Privatisation Act is contrary to Article 55, Article 57 and Article 64. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 74 The Constitution of the SRJ. The key principles of the law are obligation and commitment. The abovementioned members of the Constitution guarantee: business independence, their market equality and economic policy measures prohibit discrimination of certain types of enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9913	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic, to prepare Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9914	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are many reasons why the Privatisation Act, without serious revisions, and in some segments and without radical changes, cannot be accepted. On this occasion, I would like to point out and explain only some of the reasons that I consider to be more important in front of others. The first reason for not accepting the proposed proposal is the discrepancy of the proposed law with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution of the SRJ and the federal company law. Evidence: Article 14 of the proposed law, as key principles, inaugurate the obligation and engagement by formulating that social capital entities are obliged to implement the privatisation procedure within four years of the date of entry into force of this law. If these entities don't do it, then the agency will. With regard to the status change of the undertaking, such regulation of the obligation and the engagement of the sale of capital is directly contrary to Article 55, Articles 57 and 64. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 74 The Constitution of the SRJ. As an illustration, I quote those articles: Article 55. "Economic and social arrangements are based on the free use of all forms of property in the single market for goods, labour and capital; on the independence of enterprises and all other forms of organisation; on management and acquisition based on property and work; as well as on the rights of employees and other citizens to social security." Article 57. "Employment and other activities are carried out freely and on equal terms, in accordance with the Constitution and the law." Article 64." The company and other organisations are free to organise themselves, are independent in carrying out their activities, connecting and association, have the same position in terms of general conditions of engagement and legal protection and for their legal obligations correspond to the means at their disposal." Article 74. The Constitution of the SRJ: "Employments and other forms of organisation for the performance or service are established, organised and connected freely and independently, in accordance with federal law. The economic operators are independent and equal, and the conditions of submission are equal for all." As evidence of the non-compliance of the proposal on the agenda and the current federal company law, I state that the Federal Company Act leaves it to the company authorities to decide whether or not they will change their status. The federal law does not allow the obligation and the engagement, prescribes a way of determining and showing the value of capital, leaves the company free to choose the transformation model, allows the sale of shares under privileged conditions and allows recapitalisation. As far as I'm concerned, that proposal doesn't respect any of this. It can be concluded that if the proposer holds to legitimacy, then he must comply with the positive legal rules and take account of that already at the outset, rather than without reason, of ignoring quoted laws and members who are in force. The second reason why they cannot agree with the proposed text of the Privatisation Act is that the solutions offered are significantly more harmful and unfavourable to the employed citizens than the solutions contained in the old law. Evidence: the old solution gave the company the right to broadcast free shares up to 60% of the capital. The new solutions limit the right, with auction privatisation from 30% to 10%, depending on what period it happens. And in the case of tender privatisation at 15% and in privatisation through the restructuring of this right is completely abolished. The new law abolishes citizens' right outside a concrete enterprise to apply for free action in any company, as well as the rights of employees to receive free internship actions in their company. In the earlier law, employees had the right to free action in the dinar equivalent of 400 marks for each year of work, and this proposal reduces it to 300, and in some cases to 150 marks, depending on where the privatisation process will be carried out by auctioning method. The proposal before us abolishes the right to issue free shares before the sale of 70% of the company's capital, and completely abolishs the right of employees to free shares unless more than 50% of the company's capital is sold. I'm going to charge you with what's still being said if this bill is passed. What's being lifted? Discounts in the purchase of shares, the possibility of buying shares in 72 wars, the right of farmers to the right of the championship, and the right to apply for free actions in cooperatives and agricultural enterprises. Discounts of 1% per year of employment to wartime wartime people with disabilities. The recapitalisation model is completely abolished and therefore all rights based on recapitalisation. The right of the Republic Pension Fund to 10% of all corporate actions is reduced to the pension fund's right from 25% to 10% based on the proceeds from the sale of shares through the action fund. The right to an institution of the labour market is abolished at 25% of the proceeds from the sale of shares through the action fund. It organizes the right to acquire free shares instead of for a maximum of 40 years, at 35 years of employment. The right of the championship of existing shareholders to be abolished during the first sale of acquired shares. So, as you can see, everything goes away. Maybe we could ask ourselves why it's done, and maybe we shouldn't, because the answer's long known. However, it is clear to what extent the provisions of the new law are more favourable to all employees and citizens. The third reason why the proposed proposal cannot be accepted is indetermination, and in certain segments and the ambiguity of the solutions presented. Evidence: the position and authority of the privatisation agency in the text of the law is not sufficiently elaborated and all is subject to special regulation. The agency is given great authority, and the question can be asked: why is an agency that will operate past the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation and what is the meaning of both agencies and other agencies? More specifically, whether agencies are set up to derivate the responsibilities of individual resolutions, because there is not enough power or expertise in these resolutions to carry out the tasks of the agency in a quality way or, having formed them directly by the Government, by setting them up without verification of the Assembly, and the supervisory boards and directors, the Agency will be the executives of the Government and their activities will not be controlled by the resolution ministries. Our commitment is that the law on privatisation and the law on agencies also provides for a mechanism for labour control, especially privatisation agencies, and that control, given the importance and seriousness of the privatisation, is also being carried out by the Assembly. I will give some more examples of the indeterminateness and ambiguity of the proposed solutions. I find the value-of-capital method very significant. It is not explained in the draft law but is left to the sublegal act. And the sublegal act is also allowed to solve sales models through tender and auctions, leaving no criteria when the tender is applied, and when the auction is done, so it is left to the sublegal act. It is also necessary to develop the principle that sales prices are affected by selling conditions, especially from the aspect of the obligation to sell and the deadline. Because if the deadline is short and the sale is mandatory, then it is clear what price can be achieved. It can open up any doubt. Article 54 of the Legal Act provides for the exact amount of citizens to be entitled to the Privatization Register. It is necessary to specify the powers conferred on an action fund in the sale of enterprises, because by taking actions to the market, their price and the value of the company's capital are downgraded, so that the state would damage companies, to which there is certainly no right. The text of the proposed law is not clearly defined or sold through the financial stock market, Art. In 59 and 73, because the phasing-out of the stock is being sold, which will lead to the devaluement of the company's shares and capital. All that I've put out not only is it not clear to me, but also to a large number of citizens and businessmen I've spoken to, so I expect the promoter to come out for a pay phone and decidedly give answers to the raised dilemmas. Finally, the fourth reason why I don't think the law should be passed is the fact that the proposer is definitely giving up the possibility and the need to significantly participate in the management of privatised enterprises by those who participated in the creation of these companies, which means employees and citizens. The evidence - based on the proposed solutions clearly concludes that the participation of employees or citizens in the capital of the privatised enterprise can be maximum... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Please, give me a little more time. That it is not in the world and that the advanced world knows other solutions where employees have majority capital, may the next illustration be served. I've already pointed out this example once from this pay phone, but it doesn't seem like there's an account going on about it, whether it's hot or not. I'm gonna go public again. In the U.S. there is an ESOP association, employee - employee, share - action, onnership - ownership and R - program. In 2000, the association had 11,500 companies that employ eight million people, and the value of capital was, I stress, $500 billion. (President: 11 minutes. ) Of the 11,500 companies in 1,000 is the majority capital of workers and is listed on the stock market, and there are four million workers in these companies. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was my intention to comment on the proposed law, please, Goco, for a little while longer, and point to its inaccuracies and inaccuracies to help obtain documents. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9915	Well, let someone later say there is no tolerance between the position and the opposition in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9916	So my intention was to, by commenting on the proposed law and pointing to its inaccuracies and inaccuracies, help to obtain a document that would expertly and justly edit matter on privatisation. However, given the practice so far of adopting the opposition party's proposal, I do not expect that what I was talking about will convince the promoter to ignore the reasons for the vanity and the fact that improvement is proposed by the opposition MP. In any case, I said and saved my soul, and you decide by conscience.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9917	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, followed by Dragan Markovic - Palma.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9918	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a long time ago for social property to turn into a more efficient and productive form of property. It's also time for the state property, at least the part that isn't of strategic importance at this point for the state, for which we can achieve a good price, to be transformed. For 10 years, the Serbian Radical Party has been insisting on this request and, unlike some political parties that are proposing this law today, we have not changed our privatisation programme. It is this program that we have sent to the National Assembly, which, unfortunately, has not yet experienced being on the congregation agenda. What the SRS expects from the privatisation law and what we have proposed to the National Assembly in a law that did not live to be on the agenda is the public's privatisation, unlimited right to have actions, a simple way of obtaining free shares, the possibility of buying capital to unsettled foreign savings and other savings of citizens, protecting workers in the privatisation facility, as a clear way of using funds from selling social and state capital. To make the privatisation mandatory, to be armed and that the buyer can buy more than 50% of the company's shares. As for the public in privatisation, I would resent that it is a project form with basic data on the privatisation facility, or subject, although it is still difficult to understand and workers. Perhaps the professional public fully understands the tables and concept of it, but in this way it is not clear enough for a large number of people who work in businesses. As regards the protection of workers in the privatisation facility, the proposal does not practically mention the resolution of the social and working status of employees or the obligation of the buyer to them. It is not said that a strategic partner should not fire a worker for at least five years from the moment he purchases a privatisation facility. I'm afraid not to repeat the case of some countries in an environment where customers bought companies fairly cheaply, which I don't mind again, was so much market value and the state was forced to sell it so cheaply, fire workers, businesses shut down and create conditions for the placement of their production, without more serious competition. I think all the conditions under which the privatisation facility is privatized must be known in advance. I am already a privatisation programme submitted by the future entity or the privatisation facility must contain data on business, value of capital, assets, form of entity organisation, but also on the social programme. At that stage, he must have information about the social program. The law does not and must not allow a strategic partner to buy what he intended first, and then, autonomously, in the process of negotiating with the trade unions, to come up with a solution that would, in any case, be much worse for the employees, but that it was predetermined in the course of the purchase. If someone expects the newly created trade unions to get into a fight with the employer and thus resolve the working-legal status of employees, they are wrong, because here we have the former president of the Association of Free and Independent Trade Unions, the Minister of Labour and Employment, who has submitted the bill himself, which we have adopted, to which workers of over 36 years of employment can stop working relations. This has not been contained before, and we know that in the privatisation process it is the most unproductive workforce, that it will be the fastest and easiest to run out of work. The creation of capital requires a young, capable, strong workforce, which will be able to bear the burden of production, to create its own profit and profit to the owner of capital. The way the SRS proposed solving this problem is also contained in Article 12 of this bill, which we submitted to the National Assembly on 28 September 2000. And we say that the customer, elected to bid, undertakes not to reduce the number of employees in the company, which is the subject of privatisation. You don't need a complete solution, but at least determine a time period when the customer will not be able to freely decide to reduce the number of employees. It is difficult, and it will probably require both painful talks and negotiations, but it will solve a big problem, because if we transfer all the burden of the social community to the funds, to the labour market, to the state, it will be difficult for the state for several years to finance from these funds all the needs of those people who are going to lose their jobs. Also, we resent what value can be bought only for the arrival of foreign savings claims. I think that is where the concession is to be made, and it will be in concrete amendments, so that all foreign exchange savings can be allowed to buy company actions. And that's how we suggest it to you. You have to take much more care of some promises, gentlemen. Now I'm not advocating any special arrangements here, when something is being sold, the one whose is, whether it's social or state, in principle, it's all state property and the state decides on it. The government is the executive body of this assembly, the executive body of this state, and it will work through its commissions. But just remember the pre-election campaign, it calls on the unions, that they will be questioned in every respect and that they will agree with them, that they, the minority, will decide everything, that they will be a partner of the government. I think it was an exaggeration of promises, promises that hurt this government now. Because, here, in Article 16(3). The Privatisation Act proposal, the Privatisation Initiative shall be submitted to the organisation of a trade union in a privatisation entity, and the employees shall be notified in such a way as to be established by the general act of the Privatisation Entity. The union's feedback is not required, it's enough to let the union know about it, and within five days, that initiative is delivered to government agencies, right? So, within five days, the unions don't have time to agree, to see their position on it. It may have been in some debate that preceded the submission of the bill, but indeed, according to this, the union of the initiative can be informed by the company’s advertising board, if provided for by the general normative act, of the notification that the company is going to be privatised. These were promises made to trade unions, which are now not respected, and the future government must take care of what of the promises it can keep. I ask only one question - whether the funds raised by the purchase of enterprises should be immediately paid into the budget and directed to public consumption, or in the economy, reinvested, and then from income, interest or potential dividends, only then serve the needs of public spending. Because once we put that money into the budget, we spend it, it's gone. Budget doesn't create a new value, budget spends. The state, or government, at some point can be broad-handed, that it spends what it didn't intend under pressure, say, educators, health workers, on that principle of "cut-drink". It sometimes happens that some of the funds, which could have been spent differently, through the budget, are given to users to put out the social fire. We won't have those money anymore, some money's already gone into consumption, and we can never get them back. Then I think it's better in some way to fertilize these funds, create a new value, and from there service the needs of public spending.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9919	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic - Palma.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9920	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Unity Party considers the government to have had a good intention, but has not set out in a domestic order to regulate this area. The government hurried to sell first all those factories that are good and those factories that work. We know they've given a four-year period of time to start privatisation. If they sell these well-being factories, these factories that are now working at low capacity or not working at all in four years will shut themselves down. It's the same, gentlemen, one particular example, as when a peasant in a barn has five cows, and he needs a certain portion of the money, and he needs to sell two cows first to sell those cows that give him the least milk and leave those three cows to support his family. The government has not used its popularity, because Serbia has never been more popular than in the past seven months, that so many statesmen have come to Serbia, so many businessmen, and that a very small number of ino-contracts have been concluded, perhaps several, can be counted on the fingers of one hand, that they have made some business contracts and co-operation. This law does not provide for a member of the tender commission to be someone from the union and someone from that factory. Also, we from the SSJ party think it should be someone from the factory, if that factory is to be sold -- whether it's going to be someone from the union of that factory, someone from the assembly, someone from the board of directors, but we think they're also one of the members, who will decide at what price it will be to sell their factory. This is because one member of the minister and government predicted that in the factory's tender they might not be sold to the highest bidder, offering the most money. It'll be sold to whoever has the best investment program. And he did say he was going to give the bank a guarantee, that it was like a guarantee, that the next day he couldn't stop producing, to shut down production in that factory. But, Mr. Minister, you didn't express in percent -- how much would that bank guarantee be, is that a percentage based on the value of that factory, so that you can, in a free contract, make a deal with that buyer and make the factory go at a very low price? Not only will the government get a small number of funds, it will lose workers of that stock and the value of the shares, and rarely who, ladies and gentlemen, of the workers who work in production has some capital -- he counts that his only capital of that stock and always starts with some capital, from five to fifteen thousand marks, when the factory is sold, will receive that money. The Serbian Unity Party also gave one amendment. This law does not provide that, if one factory is sold in one city, not one percent of the city should remain, leave for the development of other companies, or for the development of the city's infrastructure. We've proposed an amendment, where we're asking for 10% of the city to remain. Our government says there will be decentralisation. In this way, I think there will be no decentralisation, and I'm going to give you an example -- a cement factory in Popovac, which has also a natural wealth, for the last twenty years this factory has made so many bridges, buildings, stadiums, and that citizens in that town and the citizens of Pomoravsky County had nothing to do with it. And in that same city, and in the towns of Pomoravski district, there are a large number of factories, which are in very difficult condition, so that part of the percentage goes to the development of these factories, in order to increase their production in these four years, to take down the cobwebs, and thus increase the market value, so that the next day in the tender they can take more money. The bill says that funds from sold factories go to develop other factories or other enterprises, which are of strategic importance to Serbia. What other factories are these? And you can't really see in the law -- what city are those other factories in, and where are they going to go? I'm going back to Pomorava County, since I'm in Pomorava County. Currently, there are 27% of the unemployed in Serbia and Yugoslavia. Once the privatisation is completed, there will certainly be over 60% of the extra labour force. What are we going to do with these people and where are we going to hire them? We're saying we're going to do education and retraining. In what companies will they be employed and what are these new factories that can accept these people, which will be declared a surplus workforce? As a businessman right now, I don't see that they're going to be able to get a job in Serbia, and what are these people going to live on tomorrow? We also suggested that if one factory were to be sold, specifically now to take the Rasinski district, that some of the funds from that factory should be transferred to the construction of a small factory or a small company with a programme that has not been represented in that district or Serbia so far and that we transfer the extra workforce to that factory. Also, it's one big problem, because these people can't expect a good future. The party of the patient unity will not vote for this law for the reasons mentioned, because we fear that only individuals will have an interest. Someone from Hungary comes in and buys our cable factory, and in Hungary has the same factory, with the same program, and if it assumes that the production technology in this factory is not rentable, not only is it not profitable production in this factory, but the production technology in all our factories is obsolete, it can close that factory tomorrow and that 40% of the labor force, the workers left in that factory, will lose their jobs tomorrow. The bank's guarantee does not foresee in percentages how much it obliges the buyer and future owner, which are the funds and how the funds will be able to be removed from the jury account and where the funds will be directed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we believe that this law is not good and that a large number of citizens of Serbia and workers will be out of work and therefore we will not vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9921	The messenger of the people is Zhivanko Radovanchev, and after him is the messenger of the people of Zivodark the Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9922	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, following the adoption of an unconstitutional law on putting aside the main provisions of the current Law on its own transformation, the government has proposed a new legal solution, as it has promised. One of the characteristics of the proposed law in relation to the suspended law on its own transformation is abandoning the course of the socio-just model of ownership transformation. Another important feature of the proposed law in relation to previous solutions is the abolition or reduction of the rights of employees in enterprises, pensioners, farmers, employees of system institutions and social upgrades. I will only mention some rights that the proposed law abolishes or restricts. The right of citizens outside the concrete enterprise to pursue free actions in each company is lifted, the right of the company to broadcast free shares up to 60% of the company's capital, the right of the farmer to the right of the championship, as well as the right to apply for free actions in cooperatives and agricultural and food businesses. The rights of the Republic Pension Fund to 10% of all corporate shares are abolished, labour market law is abolished to 25% of the proceeds from the sale of shares sold by the Action Fund, the right to discount in the capitalisation, i.e. the recapitalisation model is abolished. Discounts are lifted in the purchase of shares, the possibility of buying shares to 72 wars is lifted, pension fund rights are reduced from 25% to 10% of the shares sold by the action fund. Practically, it is impossible for employees in most companies to exercise their right provided for by this law to make free shares fully available, as part of the company's capital of 10% to 30% will not be sufficient for that. This is only part of some rights that are abolished or limited by the proposed law compared to the current law. The proposed law adheres to solutions that are contrary to the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia's constitutions, the federal company law contrary to the federal law on the basis of changes in ownership and social capital, which is still in force. The key principle of the law, which is the obligation and the constraint are contrary to Articles 55, 57 and 64. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and contrary to Article 74. The Constitution of the SRJ. These members of the Constitution guarantee the business independence of businesses and their equality on the market. The prescribing of the obligation and the engagement of the sale of capital and the obligation of the status change of the undertaking is directly contrary to those constitutional provisions. By applying the Federal Company Act, it leaves the authorities of the companies to decide whether, when and what status changes they will make. The Democratic Authority announced that we call economic reforms European so-called. the social model of capitalism. It's one thing to say, and the other thing to say is what's going on. What we can safely notice is that this country's economy is leading to an ethical model. The proposed law on privatisation is rather a law on confiscation and expropriation than privatisation. Under this law, since the third member of social property has become state property, which clearly means that this law gives us the chance to implement another one in a number of nationalisations, to date the largest and most comprehensive in the time when the new government announces the law on denationalisation, and private property will be behind it as much as there are buyers and capital. So, according to this law, all non-sale companies remain state-owned, if I understand correctly. It is estimated that the proposed privatisation bill will privatise or sell 15% to 20% of total capital. Foreigners are interested in large monopoly systems such as EPS, NIS, cements and individual food industries. The sale of strategic and monopoly enterprises should be placed under the control of the republican parliament, as announced. It would take the establishment of a paraliamentary commission that would have control over strategic enterprises and the consent of the Assembly, not just the Government. The assessment that foreign capital will be of little interest to buy our businesses will be based on the following facts. Of all the countries in our region, our country is the last access to transition. So part of the free capital has already been placed in the economy of countries that have gone into transition before. Our country is burdensome and numerous suspenses. The macroeconomic stability programme has yet to withstand a test of time. We must not forget the unsettled political opportunities that do not know how much Yugoslavia is, how many federal units we have, whether it's even a Federation, whether it's in war or not, how stable the regime that was formed after the October events is. More cautious investors will not engage in buying something that is unknown and that the state has kidnapped from self-control. Serious private capital doesn't usually go to such countries. If there are no foreigners, and there is no domestic accumulation or she is of suspicious origin, the whole orientation under this law is questionable. Also, the lack of this law is in excessive centralised, as the government's role is over-emphasised. It is all in the hands of the agency and the Ministry of Privatisation, while parliamentary control under this law is not foreseen. The state in the proposed law determines everything, what will be sold, at which price, when will be sold and who is the best buyer. If it wants a transparent and efficient privatisation of countries, it should limit its role to setting rules, with control or with a control function within which companies would have maximum freedom. Excessive centralisation, which is seen in the fact that the agency is launching, controlling and promoting the privatisation process, creates a space for corruption. Even when it's done most honestly, because of the intransparency of the law, we'll have our suspicions. The difficulties in implementing this law will be made by all those who are excluded from the decision-making process. They're employees, management and the public. I'm afraid the Beocin cement store case will be repeated in practical application of this law. A particular problem is the fact that only 15% of privatisation revenues have a particular purpose, and that as much as 85% of the funds are available to the government, without control to determine where these funds will be spent. The good side of the proposed law is that it is not retroactive and will not cancel the privatisation so far. Regardless of my well-intentioned objections, I am sure the proposed law will be passed by the power of the majority in this House. My intention was to call on the Proposer to review the proposed solutions again and to illustrate them to the environment in which this law will apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9923	The word has a folk letter from Živodarka Dacin, followed by the National MP Marinković Dragisa.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9924	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, today, here is the agenda and the law, that is, the proposal for a law on privatisation that has been announced since the very beginning and calling of this assembly. At the same time, since the proposal for a law on its own transformation, to this day we have had the opportunity to hear and read a lot through the means of public information and through all our media. What is evident, this privatisation law should represent practically an economic bonus in a positive way, because as said in Article 2 - it will create conditions for the development of economy and social stability. Whether or not that will be the case, it is a skepticism and dilemma, all employees of companies and other legal entities that are potential subjects of these laws. Somehow, there's a dilemma in me personally. Since the 5th of October came the democracy that absolutely the whole world welcomed, the changes that we all inevitably wanted, if for nothing else, then because the world would lift the sanctions under which our country, Serbia, lived and committed for 10 years. What's clearly true, what I welcome as a man, has happened to intense political communication at government level, but I wonder what else has happened? I was expecting, and I'm still sure that, with the actual lifting of sanctions, there could be doreversible communication at the level of countries, Europe and the world, when there would be exchanges and repromation and finished products, and therefore money, and there would be a standard of every worker's life. And today I claim that we are all human, hardworking, and capable and certainly would allow ourselves to improve the standard of life by doing our own work. However, this did not happen, apart from donations, but this privatisation law foresees, in practice, the sale of majority capital, even 70% through a public tender or auction, while employees remain only 15% of the capital left at their disposal. Even Article 43 says: "The right to take action without compensation is not realised in privatisation entities where more than 50% of the social capital has not been sold", which can be interpreted as existing at any cost as much as possible for us to remain with as little capital as possible. I wonder why and why this haste, which is why conditionality in principle -- whoever sells his company before, will have the right to acquire shares without compensation in the larger amount, which is clearly referred to by Article 46, where he says: "If the sale ends within 18 months, employees for every full year of work carried out in the company for up to 35 years, will receive 400 marks in dinar equivalent. Secondly, if he does so within 18 to 30 months, he will receive 300 marks, and finally, within more than 30 months he will receive 150 marks for each full year of work." I'm practically seeing this as a criminal provision for all those who aren't enough... in the sale of his company. Why, if we know in this assembly, even our prime minister Djindjic said this is an imminent process for all transition countries, a process that will be very painful. At the very beginning, it was said that, by adopting this law, 400,000 workers would be out of work, and we had heard that the number was changing and approximately, in the option up to 800,000 workers. Of course, no one at this point is sure to state what the number of workers is. It is clear that this must happen, because virtually anyone who, as a strategic partner here, is said to invest their capital in the purchase of an enterprise, it is certain that it is primarily his interest, personal, that profit is as large and certainly cannot expect, that such a stranger will have understanding and that he will think about the social status of people who are going to lose their jobs and how many families in this case will find himself in a state of social need. The union of employees, we had opportunities to hear, very opposed to the adoption of this law, and I would say for a reason, because simply - the union's task is to take care of employees, their status. However, if Article 16 is seen, we can see that it is said - that the privatisation initiative is delivered to the organisation of trade unions in the privatisation entity, and employees are informed. So they're not asking questions, so whether they're employees of the company's sale or not, that's how it's gonna be done. Moreover, it is said in the explanation that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's true, very affirmative, but I'm a member of the 60th says that these funds will be provided by just selling capital by defining through point 5. So nothing's cheap, and it'll all seem to cost us very dearly. I just wonder out loud, I'm sorry the minister isn't here, what are the experiences of neighbouring countries in the transition that have passed this privatisation process? Is there really a much more positive status for all who are employed, and how many employees after this privatisation are really left to work and exist? I would like another question to refer to, but there are our minister's associates -- since the bill mentions the term "institutions" without some, at least for me more specific definitions of what is meant by this, and given that I am a health worker, whether or not some next degree of privatisation in the field of health, at least in those segments where this might be appropriate, given that the most resources are currently missing in providing health care and improving the material status of health employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9925	There is a word from MP Dragisa Marinkovic, followed by MP Dr Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9926	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the honourable members of the government, this country is facing one of the most important laws to be passed in this package of laws. The most significant is that with what will happen in this country, the country will get out of misery, poverty, poverty, return to a track of work, honesty, values, where only those who work can have, only those who by their knowledge and mind each day insist that this country goes forward have the right to enjoy the well-being of that country. So this is where the question arises why we, that is, this government, are going to privatize. First of all, we get exactly the titlers, so we'll know who owns the company. I've been talking to people these months and days, managers who run businesses around Serbia today. The basic thing they're missing is money. They're running out of money for crafts. They already have their own programs, they could start, start working. Unfortunately, there's no money in this country, the money's out, it's spent. How do you find that money? The banks that come to this country will come to only one stable economy, they will come to a country they know that this money they invested today will be able to pay back tomorrow. You know for a fact that there's extra capital in the world today. There's not only a stable market where that capital could be invested properly and to make a profit tomorrow. Because who would invest in a country if they couldn't get their profits out of that country? How'd it go so far? They always asked me why this previous government didn't privatize the companies. To be honest, there were two basic reasons. The first reason is that duality, first social, then social plus private, that was always equal to stealing. Why is that? When something isn't yours, and you master great values, it's easy to raise capital. You let your son build a private company and then work with him. There's no company, I, gentlemen, I don't know about this company in this country, which in these ten years has been positive, which she said -- this year we're positive, we've paid the workers' salaries, we've given the state what it belongs to, and we've got half a million marks left at the end of the year. I agree that there were such companies, with them always doing business with a positive zero, because what the workers actually earned was going in quite another, unknown direction, private pockets. I'll answer for that Hungary, you'll be kind enough to devote a minute to Hungary. So that's what this country is and the way they've been working has put us in the same situation as it is today. You know, peasants have one rule. If you want to milk a cow, you have to feed it. They worked differently, milked the economy, snuck out and buried her alive. That's why we're in this situation that we're in today. If we had been lucky if we had privatized when this economy was really worth it, then far more money would have entered this country and today we would have been quite something else, because we had the best starting position of all the eastern countries. You remember that well, it was all for us poor people, and Bulgaria, and Romania, and Hungary. What do the workers get with this privatisation? Those who stay to work in such factories get job security, better pay and, most importantly, the growth of their actions. It is true that some workers will lose their jobs. It is true that the Red Flag in Kragujevac will not be able to remain that number of workers. We know that in one family there are three -- four people who work at the flag, so it's better that two people work and make real money than four people work without making any money. What if we gave it all to the workers and said, well, you did, you earned it, and all 100% of the companies are yours? There'd be nothing, they'd give them blank paper. These companies wouldn't be able to move, they wouldn't have a chance to move into a better future. Those actions, no matter how big they are at first sight, would be worth nothing. Such a company would fail and their actions would go into the air. To free these people, to free the workers of this country, I'm going to say one example of how I would go with my private company, meaning 100% private capital, into some new privatisation, with some man who would like to invest in my company. For example, right now I have two patents, which I think are extremely good, and to run production, I need half a million marks. If I found such a partner who wanted to get into it, out of the value of my company that's 100,000 marks today, in five years my company would be worth half a million, my share. But that's why I'd have to give up if I were the owner of 100%, so maybe I'd own 40% and my 40% in two years would be twice the value. I've been talking to some firms these days, who already have their potential partners. For example, Lemind-Leskovac has a partner who wants to invest money, waiting for Lemind to enter the privatisation. He unfortunately doesn't work today. These are the tragedies of our day, these are their futures. I suggest these companies get into privatisation as quickly as possible, take their percentage for themselves, and other offers on the capital market. At the very end, I want to point out one extremely positive thing to this occasion. I would like to point out that Mr. President of the SRS, Seselj, too, was extremely correct today in his performance, commending this part of the privatisation. What gentlemen of the radicals are getting me about my Hungarian firm, frankly, here I am now going to use that minute: in Hungary I have a company with two workers. These are our Hungarians who had to leave this country because the government was who it was. They had to go after the bread with their stomachs to find a better haven. This company is a manufacturing company, and there's nothing out of the ordinary about it, I'm telling you here. It would be the same as if Mr. Seselj had come here and said that my mother had built that house, and that money I gave her, I sold the land, the bike. There may not be land in Herzegovina, but he may have sold our country, something like that. So you know where the money's from, that's all clear, clear. So, I told you about this firm of mine, it's only pride to me, because with this company of mine, I sell three of my patents in Hungary and dominate that market. In the end, I would like to ask our friends, colleagues from DOS, who have given their amendments to this law to try to find harmony between the government's demands and what they want. I, frankly, gave one amendment one moment and I think I was right. But when I heard the government's argument, and that's what the radicals were talking about, so this country owes this nation eight billion marks, I thought it was okay to have that debt returned to these people this way. However, if the debt were to be converted into privatisation, they would get nothing from nothing. They don't have the money to invest in production, everything would go down to zero. The government has found some kind of compromise solution, somewhere around two billion such debt will be turned into action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9927	There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic. - Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9928	I think it's time you stopped making lies, lies, insinuations about a few people of the SRS. You've got enough media to do that. Every day I read the name Vojislav Seselj, Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic, lies about how we submitted amendments not to tax anything, and lies about how I bought a huge country and lies about how Vojislav Seselj stole a country, how he made some new houses. You don't have to use a congregation pay phone to do that. You don't need it. Your man is in control of all the media, even the Pink TV. Do whatever you want. The papers are buzzing. Leave the assembly pay phone only for the bill's proposals, and speaking of which, nothing has happened today in the presentation of Professor Vojislav Seselj, which has not happened all these days since you've been in power. This was one of the principal discussions. It's just, this is the first discussion in which you found something that can serve as a basis to resemble the bill. So Vojislav Seselj is a real MP and a real professor when he has some law he agrees with ideologically. As soon as there's a bill that radicals disagree with ideologically, as soon as the radicals attack him in the Assembly, then we're a destruction, then we don't know anything, then we're fake professors, etc. So, don't compliment Vojislav Seselj because it will drop our rating in the Republic of Serbia. We do our job in principle. I wish the proposal was a law on privatisation, as a politician I'd like, a worse proposal than the one that came, I'd have more reason to go out for this pay phone and attack him. As for the bill, the president of the parliamentary group has declared himself, but the other MPs will also speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9929	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9930	I'm advertising a violation of Article 98. The Rules of Procedure, which is related to the presentation of the previous colleague. It is once again shown that you have two archivals when it comes to exposing MPs from this pay phone, when it comes to DOS MPs, as was a colleague who used most of his time for, in my opinion, advertising his firm and the success of his business. You haven't warned him for a moment. The second thing, the Rules of Procedure obliges us, and that is a moral obligation, to tell the truth from this pay phone. My colleague, you have told a lie when it comes to labour, as you say, workers working with you in Hungary, at your firm. No one from this country, especially members of the national minorities, had to leave. The ones who left, they left because they had an economic interest. (Employee from the scene: that's what I said.) ) You must take care, not for me personally, nor for us Serbian radicals. We know what the real truth is. But because of those who can't wait for sentences like this, they have to apply them as one of the evidence that members of the national minority in the past 10 years have had to leave this country. For the best of intentions, without the intention of developing controversy here or of us proving ourselves to each other, but I'd like to ask you when it comes to keeping an eye on each other. I believe and understand that they were the best intentions, but better precisely, so that individuals, such as Joseph Kasa, would not abuse it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9931	In an explanation to MP Milorad Mircic, in 10 minutes of the speech on the privatisation law, there were various exhibitions, literally saying, a deviation from the topic, to call the privatisation law. You're right, I'm obliged to interrupt every speaker if he's away from the topic, but he has a reason to tell me he needs a relationship, a company, an example, that what he's doing, in his performance on the privatisation law, is his speech profile. As for the part of the speech and its replies to Hungary, it is a common violation of the Rules of Procedure by the MPs who have cast out, and, of course, the undisputed MP should not have responded to the MPs of the House. If we all put a little goodwill into it, it's a problem that can be solved. Do you want us to vote for the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) There is a word from MP Goran Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9932	There are around 7,000 social enterprises in Serbia, and around 700 has been privatised so far. Half of Serbia's total employees work in 600 large enterprises. It is predicted that 1,500 to 2,000 companies will find a strategic partner in the privatisation process and that 500 to 1,000 will buy employees. The tender privatisation will cover about 40 companies, but I will remind you that in practice it goes much harder and that in Montenegro, 15 companies were reported by interested potential buyers only for three companies. Since Prime Minister Djindjic says that the economy, metaphorically viewed as a patient in need of help, would metaphorically respond that the upcoming privatisation of preparations for a very serious operation without adequate medications, bandages, is only anesthesia for Serbian citizens. The post-operative period is uncertain. The only thing that's certain is that the surgeon, in this case the Minister of Finance, is likely to profit. Of the 29 privatisation ministers in the countries of transition, 28 of them ended up in prison. The surgical cut can successfully remove the sick tissue and the patient (in this case the economy) recovers, but I warn that there may also be exitus, i.e. to social unrest. What are the risks of surgery? Excess workforce, uncertainty, what will happen to the purchased economic operator, whether there will be investments in the economic operator or that entity bothers the buyer as a competition, whether the buyer will commit himself to co-finance social programmes, there is a danger of spilling social capital into private pockets. In order to achieve the best price of the company, the balance sheet and the balance sheet of success of each company should be known, as these balances are necessary for the full analysis of the financial opportunities of a company. The state will remove some of the foreign debt from the company to make it more attractive for the strategic partner. Although there is no current solution for large industrial complexes. We can see from the public that ino partners are currently the most interesting cementers. Privatisation Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic was a consultant for the company "Deloitte and Touche" and worked on the side of Lafarge in 1998 when an agreement was reached that the Vienna cementar was worth 100 million marks. In the present conditions, without a public tender, it's impossible to find out if we could get a better offer. In Beocinska cementar he works about 2,000 workers while in the cement plant Novi Popovac 2.589 workers. That is why it is not important whether the strategic partner will come with foreign exchanges to close the factory tomorrow, but whether it will use our natural potential, exceptional personnel and by reducing the product's production price to allow these products to be made available to citizens of Serbia. In all transition countries, the situation of manual workers has deteriorated and unemployment has grown massively. In Serbia, the unemployment rate stands at 0.4% of the social product, while in other countries the singles go from 3% to 5% in order to solve the unemployment problem, as each country must ensure social stability. That is why the Serbian Radical Party supports private entrepreneurs, because they create half of the social product and represent a healthy sector. Some privatisations were carried out, such as the "Diamant" oil plant from Zrenjanin, which has about 900 workers, which was privatised in 1994, while those 20%, according to Djindjic's law on the revaluation of previous privatisations carried out at the time of hyperinflation, have already been assessed as a private stake. I would now move on to direct objections to the Privatisation Act. The essence of this concept of privatisation is to sell capital, property or part of the company's assets, and a very small part of the capital is foreseen for free division of employees. The proposal for this law introduces new institutions into the privatisation process. The need to form these institutions and registers is raised, as their establishment and functioning requires huge financial resources. The bill gives almost unlimited authority to the privatisation agency, the economy and privatisation minister and the government of the Republic of Serbia, with a negligible role of the employee union. The main models of privatisation are the sale of capital and transfer of capital without compensation, and the basic methods of selling capital or property are public tender and public auction. Under this bill, the sale of capital or property through a public tender implies 70% of sales, 15% is transferred to employees in a privatisation entity without compensation, 15% of the capital in the form of shares is recorded in a privatisation register that is acquired by citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have turned 18 years of life, ending with the date of entry into force of the government's decision to transfer shares to citizens without compensation. The sale of capital or property through a public auction implies 70% of the sale, up to 30% of the capital is transferred to employees without compensation, can be less, and anything remaining is transferred to the action fund. In Article 15, there is no specific regulation governing issues relating to the return of assets, so the question arises as to how the value of the assets will be determined by the former owners, as well as who will determine the value of that property so that it can be subject to privatisation. In Article 16, employees' trade unions are only informed of the privatisation initiative, i.e. the initiation of the privatisation process, nothing is asked. In Article 19, there are no criteria on the basis of which the privatisation agency estimates that the privatisation entity must be restructured, as in no case shall the Agency carry out restructuring, in which the competent authority of the privatisation entity is to submit a restructuring programme. Why in Article 25, the total capital or property of a privatisation entity that is restructured is sold, not 70% or less, as for other privatisation entities. Article 30 was not given on the basis of which the minister will determine the amount and method of payment of deposits. In Article 36, there are no criteria on the basis of which the privatisation agency chooses the members of the auction committee. It also raises a logical question, whether one commission is formed for all sales via auction (tender) or for each sale individually. In Article 42, an employee or former employee's right to free action can only be exercised in their own company when it is privatised. They cannot, as they have so far, do so in other companies that are subject to privatisation. In this way, the rights of employees and former employees are narrowed down to the Law on their own transformation, as it is difficult for all employees in their company to achieve free actions for all years of work experience, since for the transfer of capital to employees without compensation, a maximum of 30% of the value of the capital that is privatised when privatised by public auction, or a maximum of 15% when privatization is carried out through a public tender. In article 54, the decision to transfer actions to citizens without compensation is made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When is he making a decision and based on what? The 56th article raises the question of what is meant at the cost of privatisation and on the basis of which the minister's criteria determines the level of costs. In Article 60, the purposes of the funds achieved in the privatisation process should be specified, in particular points 2, 3, 4, 5, and in particular 6. (other purposes). In Article 69, there are no criteria on the basis of which the Ministry will decide which actions will be recorded in the privatisation register, or on the basis of which actions will be recorded in the privatisation register to be sold by public auction or through stock brokers, and both exclusively through a public tender or public tender. As regards the objections to the Bill on the Action Fund, the 6th Management Board of the Action Fund consists of three representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, one representative of the Republican Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, one representative of the privatisation agency. This means that the board of directors makes up practically four representatives of the Government and one representative of the PIO Fund. Under the 1998 Act on the Action Fund of the Republic of Serbia, the Management Board consisted of one representative of the government, one representative of the PIO Fund, one representative of the Development Fund, one representative of the Republic Labour Market Office and one representative of the Action Fund. The Director of the Action Fund, on a proposal from the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, is elected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Article 26(1) states that funds are transferred from the sale of shares or shares to the account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but their names are not listed. With regard to the draft law on the privatisation agency, Article 7, it is necessary to specify in which way the Agency will be informed and how to educate the public. Article 8 does not state on the basis of which the Agency is launching an initiative for the implementation of the privatisation process and on which to develop the restructuring programme. In Article 9, there are no criteria on the basis of which the Agency determines which privatisation method will be applied to the privatisation entity. The work of the tender commission comes down to formalities, if the agency proposes to the tender commission the choice of the most favourable offer. If the Agency is a special legal person, as well as an action fund, the Agency shall organise a process of selling actions transferred to the action fund. On what basis does the agency assess whether it will implement the restructuring itself or refer the request to the privatisation entity? On what basis does the agency even establish privatisation entities that need restructuring? There are no criteria for any decision taken by the Agency under its jurisdiction precisely so that those financing the Agency will make decisions and solutions to their needs. Article 11 does not state what the Ministry is doing if the Agency determines the shortcomings in the control of the privatisation process. In Article 12, it is unclear on what criteria does the Government choose and resolve the Director and members of the Management and Supervisory Board? Is it based on the amount of donation? Whether there is justification for the establishment of a privatisation agency as a special legal person, since there are conditions in the Ministry regarding technical equipment and personnel to carry out operations in the work of the Agency. The establishment of special institutions and its organisational units outside the headquarters to deal with privatisation requires huge financial resources. The Agency has too much authority. At the same time, it initiates, implements and controls the privatisation process. The privatisation process will be carried out practically through this agency, with a crucial role in decision-making being played by foreign sponsors and donors, which will provide funds for the establishment and operation of the agency. I will note that for the first time in its history, the World Bank will give free aid of seven million dollars to the privatisation agency. Although it is a state agency that should protect the interests of the state in the privatisation process, it will be managed by those who provide funds for its work and who expect direct and indirect benefits, as they are interested in buying businesses in Serbia. The question arises, who will then protect the interests of the state in the privatisation process, especially given the fact that the supervisory role of the Ministry is of formal nature.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9933	The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic, followed by MP Zoran Micovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9934	Dear People's MPs, we have a great historic job ahead of us. This is certainly the most important law a parliament can adopt. This is a law that will, in any case, significantly define the future of the citizens of this country. All that we have done in the previous four months, in this home, the large number of laws passed by this congregation in the previous period is merely a logistics preparation for adoption, and then application, of the privatisation law that is before us today. Not to argue that privatisation is necessary, that it is the historic task of this generation, which normally needs to emerge from a political decision, in my discussion I will try to point out some shortcomings in the proposed concept. It will not be a criticism of criticism, but simply a desire to make the proposed solution better. It was expected that the proposing, armed with the experiences of the countries of Eastern Europe, which have already been through the process, and armed with the experience of two privatisation laws in our country (that Ante Markovic, and that of Bekov), would come before us with such a bill, which will primarily be economically meaningful and socially secure, and as you say, transparent, i.e. open and public. Unfortunately, he's not exactly like that in all his segments. Its basic shortcomings are seen primarily in the next -- firstly, the law is not entirely economical, i.e. it will not give the maximum effects in the momentum of Serbia's economy, which should be its primary goal. On what do I base my claims? It is known that around 7,000 social and state-owned companies, which should be privatised, use their available capacities with only 35 to 40%. It's an indisputable fact. Then it is also known, according to the 2000 figures, that these 7,000 companies participate in the losses of the Serbian economy by 94%. So that's part of the economy that's bankrupted, Malten. Then, the internal debt of these companies, or whatever you say, is about 800 billion dinars, or close to 30 billion marks. Then, with all seven thousand privatisation entities, a huge lack of trade capital has been reported. According to some experts, in order to only double the capacity utilisation rate, it takes 30 billion marks. When we sort all these facts out, one by one, the question arises -- whether the concept of the company's naked sale, i.e., only a naked buy-out, can give the company a maximum effect, in the rush of such a failed Serbian economy. We're going to sell, I'm absolutely sure, part of the most attractive companies, and we're going to sell them very quickly, but I'm afraid that a large part of the company will continue to camp, and eventually go into liquidation. So I suggest that, in addition to the two proposed models in privatisation, sales and free division of shares are introduced by the third, which is capitalisation. For example, Mr. Minister, let's take a hotel, take a little hotel in Belgrade, for example. This Excelsior where I sleep and I know a few facts -- it's estimated at about three million marks. In order for the level of its services to rise to a global level, it needs about three million marks of investment directly. So we put the buyer in a position to buy 70% of the hotel to first give two million and seven hundred thousand, and then to take out an additional three million marks, to normally invest and prepare that hotel for one game. Is that too attractive for a buyer? By introducing a third model of recapitalisation, I think that even to stimulate potential investors, it means that by entering three million on this case, it would get 70-80% of the ownership, and that is extremely attractive. I've taken an example of the hotel, but that's true of many, even larger economic operators, or privatisation entities, as you say. We simply, therefore, must encourage these potential investors to invest. I understand the state needs money, but believe me, we still need such direct investment. The next major lack of this concept is the absolute absence of any social programme. The result of every privatisation (that's what East European experience tells us) is mass layoff of workers. It's something that's gonna happen. The state must be amortizing this huge social coup, which awaits us. Is it safe for a serious state and a serious state administration to get into this big business without preparing protective mechanisms for its citizens? That's why I'm suggesting that you immediately approach the creation of a serious social programme and immediately start a dialogue with the unions. Your stubborn attitude on this issue (this is what Mr Djindjic confirmed for us today) can literally hit you on the head. Certainly, the greatest lack of the proposed concept of privatisation is its absolute, to use your term, intransparency, or inability to control the whole process, which creates a good basis for corruption of every kind. Look, I'm not accusing anyone in advance of corruption, but these solutions in the law are an extraordinary basis for that to happen. You see, everything revolves in a very narrow circle -- the ministry forms an agency, the agency forms a tender and auction committee that should control the whole process, and the circle closes. Imagine, I'm privatizing, I'm choosing a tender and auction committee, which should control how I did the privatisation. I'm sorry, why would we believe your word that you'd be honest? I insist that the tender and auction committee be elected by this Assembly, and that the mandatory composition of these committees be multilateral. It will be the only guarantee to this people that there will be no major malfeasances, i.e., great smudge. And quite in the end, by reading this bill, I've come across some elements that are simply not true. It's either done out of ignorance, or it's planically wrong for the people. There's no reason for us to hide from the workers exactly how much they're going to get free shares, what will be the value of these free shares. It's as much as it is. There's nothing that can be shared that doesn't exist, and that people will understand and understand very well. Let's see, at the discretion of the prominent experts, the available state capital, which is privatized, amounts to a maximum of 25 billion marks. You, Mr. Minister, deny me, if you don't. (Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic, from the post: social, not state. I'm talking social. The one that is privatized, the available capital that is privatized, amounts to a maximum of 25 billion marks. Also, the number of people who have not yet used their right to free action is about four million, a circus of four million people. If the average internship, as one example, of all these people is about 20 years old, that means, respecting the fact that they have the right of a maximum of 30% of the estimated value to share free, that workers and pensioners will receive ten marks in a year's time. If that's not the case, you, Mr. Minister, deny me. That's what simple math says. Then, you have one, in a legal sense absurd, member of the law, which says that part of the funds achieved by the sale will go for compensation of nationalised assets, or restitution. That's absurd. Look, we, this law, as Mr. Seselj pointed out, we didn't bring any restitution, and you're planning some means for these purposes. Okay, let's make plans for some funds, but you even have a quantified item -- how much it will be. That looks a little like a demagogue. Dear People's MPs, this law is, in any case, the historical and objections of the opposition, namely us, Serbian radicals, should not be rejected, because our intention is to make the proposed solution maximum repairs. This law will largely define both your future and the future of your children. In one word, it will significantly define the future of our people and the future of Serbia as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9935	The word is by MP Zoran Micovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9936	Ladies and gentlemen, I express my pleasure to attend the historic assembly session. Historically, to correct historical injustices against thousands of citizens of this country, who were damaged in the first years after the war, in one of the most bestinal ways, punished, taken away from them property, exiled, condemned as human enemies, the best hosts and the most frequent people of this country. This is an opportunity to confirm what many of us have been shouting at the pay phones for 11 years, by the myths, that we will do what we do today and correct a catastrophic and historic so far unseen injustice towards our people. There's a lot of strangers around this law that's in front of us today. But, certainly, what today is like the crown and as the main session, as the main point of the session in this period, besides all those laws that we have adopted so far, is actually this privatisation law that we are finally adopting today. Among other things, our contact with the world is conditioned with this -- that we are a serious country and that we are seriously thinking, and that we have serious intentions. This refers to a series of new events that we will be able to see for ourselves, in contact with the world. This is one of the most important laws we adopt. I want to tell you that I'm like the president of the municipality, so I'm talking about what was behind us, but I really need to look back -- what is the essence of privatisation and what are the advantages of people having in their possession their product, their production, and when they think about it with their own head, using their own brains, what God left for creation, for correct and quality thinking about the future. So there was a company in Arile called Ita Tricotage, a giant that collapsed in 1993-1994 during inflation, as well as many companies that failed overnight. Not blaming the leadership that led her today, and I don't mean to say that as a young municipal leadership five years ago, we went to a meeting with the workers in the best way to talk about what's bothering them, even though we don't have any power, no instrument to help them, not even in the budget of money, and then the workers have been so freaked out for months without pay, one after another asking -- president, what are we to live from? So what the people are going to live on and how they're going to make money from today has a whole new twist, a whole new story. What I want to connect with my city is also: when people asked me, and here I mentioned it, what kind of people live there, I just said that fact about living a hardworking, working and smart people. What I'm smart enough to tell you is that there are 800 flow accounts in Ariel, so living small enterprises, 13 social enterprises, all of which are enterprises or stores with an account of 685. When the elections were past, the explanation of why we got so smoothly is because the people knew how to think, because they had long ago used their brains to produce, to create, to make profits and to develop their own company and their city. It is one of those things that will only come when full privatisation is carried out under this law, and which makes me very happy, which is binding, is not only declarative and will take Serbia to Europe, where we belong. I have no doubt about it, I've been looking forward to this law, and I will support it with all my might. What I have to tell my friends today from the Property Protection League, especially Professor Pavlovic of Veterinary College, is the question whether you took into account the fact that we were once deprived of property, how is denationalisation done, and whether this part of the world will be compensated in a fair way? So, I have to answer him the following, as well as all my friends from the Private Property Protection League: the return of the seized assets to former owners is DOS obligations and that was no moment a dilemma of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On the contrary, what has been promised will be certainly and fulfilled. Restitution will be the subject of land, apartments, houses, bars and businesses. Anything that has not suffered a significant physical change will be returned in physical form. The way in which businesses are physically vomited, however, is simply not possible. Today's companies, whose creation is based on companies taken away after World War II, are neither roughly comparable to the size and structure of enterprises taken away after World War II. Even if it were theoretically assumed that physical vomiting was possible, it would be deeply unfair at the moment, because all these companies are carrying out a mortgage these last years with them, so it would be completely incorrect for those same owners who were taken after the war, to get their company back in dues, with problems, with debtors, etc. On the other hand, our goal is to correct all historical injustices, but, first of all, to build better conditions for life for generations to come. Even if a physical return could be declared a property issue, it is not clear, because of up to 50 major enterprises taken from former workers, and it would be unfair to ask the question of the risk of investment in all these companies. It's a risk that, in this case, would be more than the profit that should be expected at this point from the fund that will be created to make these people compensate. On that side, and looking at that aspect, I think that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has in one correct and quality way considered this case, that they have spoken to all the owners with whom it was possible and that there is one solution that I hope will, and I am absolutely sure of it and I am giving both my hands for this story, to take Serbia into a better and happier future.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9937	The word has a National MP Stanko Kovacevic, followed by MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9938	Dear Members of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister with associates, respected citizens, as the DOS MP from the Democratic Serbia Movement, I am very pleased that at today's meeting of this assembly, a miracle happened unseen. The head of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, Mr. Seselj, gave strong support to the Privatisation Law proposal in his presentation despite the fact that he presented a number of remarks and suggestions. As a result of such an attitude, meanwhile, we have received reports that quite a number of Serbian Radical Party MPs are withdrawing part of their amendments, which is also a contribution to expect that the full adoption procedure for this package will be completed in four to six days, instead of expected eight to 12 days. It was also a great pleasure to accompany MPs during the exposé of Minister Vlahovic, who followed 30 minutes of exposure, Malten, in one breath, that they did not stir. This is evidence, gentlemen, that the government of the Republic of Serbia, opting for a bill like this, has set an example of how future legal projects will be explained and brought closer to the widest layers of citizens. I can tell you, for 12 years of my political work and for my two parliamentary mandates, I haven't had a chance for many years to speak for a pay phone or a federal speaker, or this assembly to hear so brilliant, so simple, so convincing and so easy to understand a proposal and an explanation of a legal project that we had the opportunity to hear today. The evidence of this claim is also the fact that in the last four months, I have participated in about 22 cases of legal projects, adopted by this assembly and on the agenda today. It is a great surprise that, in addition to a series of legal projects, exactly the Law on Privatisation has provoked and demonstrated the extraordinary knowledge of participants in the stands and even the details proposed by the law. It is particularly interesting that serious participation in discussions on the Privatisation Act is taken by pensioners, for two reasons. They are interested in the fate of their actions from the company that will be privatised, but are also interested in the fate of members of 60th and 61st, which provides that 10% of the total funds collected from the privatisation process will be channelled to the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, because this is proof that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has defined that the privatisation funds will be used to recapitulate those funds that have been extremely ruined and that the realisation of this law will give guarantees to pensioners that the end of their lives will be more peaceful, with more regular and more realistic pensions. The participants under the Privatisation Act mainly raised three issues of interest, especially answers related to the law. Among them is the fate of workers and their shares, the second - denationalisation, the third - the use of funds and the fourth control of work and the avoidance of malversion and corruption in the privatisation process. I've always tried to answer these four basic questions the following way. The privatisation law, which we are discussing today, and I hope to adopt next week, predicts 30% of free actions for workers, instead of 60% of the previous law. I am always present citizens and workers, pensioners, persuading - be assured that this law will allow 30% of the shares you will receive to be far more valuable, than 60% that you would have previously received under the previous law. The reason for this is that 60% of the shares split by 60% reduces the ability to activate production, because workers and pensioners who get free shares do not have in their pockets capital to invest it in the launch of production and, thus, their actions are absolutely worthless. This law, when 70 percent of the shares are sold, gives you valuable capital, gets a real boss to invest his assets, organise production, secure the market. Citizens' actions, which they have received for free, will have a real value that will be able to be realised on both secondary and primary markets. We explained that this law only treats business entities and, in fact, denationalisation elements, when it comes to economic operators, for those companies that were taken away in 1944, up to 50 and some years, it treats and therefore provides for in Article 62 that the total funds of 5% will be provided in the Denationalisation Fund. But it is illogical that the law on privatization of social and state property also treats housing, land, because it will do the law that follows, which is being prepared. The use of funds - we had opportunities and to read a large number of amendments requiring that the funds obtained by privatisation should remain in the local self-government, and some even required that such a uniformly high percentage of the funds remain to local self-government, that it was indeed inconclusive, but we clearly accepted the amendment of the Vojvodina Assembly that 5% of the total resources provided remain to local self-government in the Republic of Serbia, not only on the territory of Vojvodina. How will you control it? Control will take place in several stages, and it is clear that the government and the ministry are the main control actors, the Privatisation Agency and the Action Fund are practically direct perpetrators. What we have disputed a lot is the need and obligation to install into the legal project the obligation to form a multi-party parliamentary commission to monitor the entire privatisation process, from the moment it begins, to the moment it ends. I had such an amendment, and it is normal that I accepted the minister's suggestion that the legislator can't impose legislation on the legislator to commit himself, the legislator's orders are only given by the Constitution, and it is logical that I accept such a proposal that in this assembly, using the right of the proposal's priority, because I gave my opinion to the Committee on Industry, when it comes to that time, then I will insist on what I do. Finally, there has been a remark that the Privatisation Agency is not going to be able or physically able to do its jobs that are necessary to do in the privatisation process. It is clear that the Agency will, both professionally and humanly, demining itself to be able and ready to do all the work effectively. Remember, if we have properly followed the information funds, the World Bank has defined $6 million, grants, precisely to support the privatisation process and probably part of these funds will be used for payment, not only of domestic, but also of foreign experts, whose engagement will be necessary in order for the privatisation process to be effective, quick and just.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9939	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, a replica, and the basis for the replica is the mention of the president and party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9940	The predecessor misread the presentation of the president of the SRS parliamentary group. First of all, we did not agree with the restitution of former factory owners whose various laws have been in place since 1945, and then the property seized and handed over to the state, the people, the employees, but in what form of ownership it was, so that we will not agree to it until the end of this debate, nor will we accept such a way of crushing all constitutional and legal norms in this country and especially the stories that something that has become obsolete can no longer be returned to payment traffic, and the stories of handing over to industrialists in any way, restitute any percentage of former ownership. It really doesn't come to mind and you should give it up. We have made such an amendment and submitted, a team before, that the restitution was left for some future law. Whether this law will be passed and whether the schedule of power in this House will be such that this law will ever be passed, or whether you are simply satisfying some leagues, some societies, or, by this law, you promise 5%, you leave in the budget to be made available under some law whose proposal may never even enter the procedure. Secondly, with regard to the amendments, one number of amendments withdrawing SRS MPs were technical errors. These are amendments that we wouldn't even defend right now, and it doesn't matter if we give up on them at the pay phone, or if we let you know in writing, that they wouldn't even be trafficked. So, all the amendments that the SRS has submitted according to its progam remain to be discussed here and remain for an attempt to convince you that one, so far the best proposal for privatisation, could be further repaired, so that it could be positively declared by the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9941	The word has a folk MP Milan Radulovic, followed by a National MP, Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9942	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, the law we're talking about today has a very simple and short title - a proposal for a law on privatisation. According to the title is also style, and the internal structure and composition of this law: it is written in short sentences, in simple language, in style consistent. This law, in fact, represents a highly specialized, professional economic text. In such a text, and in particular such a text, people will enter far more invited than me. I'd just like to say a few words about the spirit, the meaning and the logic of this law. It seems to me that we will all agree today that with this simple economic law we end an era in the same Serbian people. In history, the socialist economic system goes away, the communist economic doctrine goes away in history, volumes and volumes are written in order to explain the doctrine, to develop its various variants and to apply these variations in practice. From now on, it's all in the history of economic thought, in the history of economic ideas, businesses, economic operators, people who do business will no longer be treated with these experimental ideas. I saw this short text as a negative review of numerous variations and all volumes written in defense of the communist economic doctrine. This is a simple finding. In front of that fact: that one epoch ends, we have no reason to be arrogant, we have no reason to be even nostalgic. To be proud, we have no reason to have this economic system and the doctrine worn out in itself: not with any of our particular merits and not because, as one of the MPs said this morning, this system was being obstructed from the inside, but because it was laid on economically illogical grounds. For nostalgia, however, we have no rights, because all the people in this country understand that the economic system of this society and this state is in a corrosive state, that it is completely ruined and everyone understands, and it is clear to everyone that it is necessary to build a new and different economic system. What new and different? In a sense, this law is historic, not because it ends an era, but because it continues historical continuity in the economic, cultural and spiritual life of the Serbian people; because, the economic system determines, in a sense, the value system and the cultural system of a nation and of a society. So we continue the economic system that was built in Serbia until 1941. We continue, efforts to extend the construction of an open and liberal economic system, an open and liberal economy. On the one hand, the challenges of the new era and the new economic flows, on the other hand behind us are a long and rich tradition of economic thought and legal regulation that governed economic life in Serbia, from the first constitution to the communist coup. In a sense, we return to tradition, and by returning to economic tradition, we enter the future. The Democratic Party of Serbia is pleased to accept such a orientation, as it is its programme orientation -- to combine what was valuable in tradition with what was worth in the modern era, as well as with all the best ideas and aspirations that appear in modern times. However, it is highlighted here, and I think rightly, that the Privatisation Act is not at all a goal to itself. This law does not redistribute property, so to say: the old owners had this much, so the communists took it; in the communist era it was created this much and it belongs to the workers who invested; in post-Communism or neo-Communism, call it whatever you want, in the last ten years, some other experiments with businesses have been done and there are some vague ownership relations there again. No, it seems to me that the logic of this law -- and that's what puts trust -- is that in the first place all economic entities, so every company, should make it more efficient. Making the company more efficient means making it alive and meaningful, because it has no other reason to exist, but to be efficient and to make a certain profit. And then when the economy comes alive, when it starts to make a profit, the Privatisation Act predicts models for whom the property that is created will be distributed, and what already exists as a value in businesses, and what will eventually be created in the future. Of course, there's going to be a lot of discussion whether they're good at these parities, whether it's justly distributed: maybe someone's going to be wrong more, someone less wrong; someone's going to think that its value and share is underestimated, someone that its value is overrated, but they're all, in fact, technical details. What matters to this law is that this is just one small, first step. Not in the light of the future -- this is a step into a very great temptation, in a very serious business, in a new not only economic system, not just in a new way of becoming fit, but this is a step in a new value system, in a new attitude towards people. In that sense, we have many reasons to keep an eye on how this first step will be done. Most people think this law is good. I don't consider myself competent to assess its economic value, but I consider myself invited to, at the moment we adopt this law, warn of possible difficulties that will arise with its application. The first such difficulty is not just what my colleagues said - I will not look back on it and I would not like to say it again. The first difficulty will be to prevent corruption. Second: how to prevent monopolies. Because experience shows that the privatisation process is followed by both corruption and monopoly. Where corruption and monopolies take too much wave, the privatisation process cannot lead to a liberal and open economy. It can lead to what we once had, and we had a condition that the entire business organism was in the claws of political oligarchy and its bureaucracy. If and by what this law is worth, that's what it has to do -- it needs an economy to free political oligarchy, to draw a clear between what falls within the sphere of politics and what falls within the sphere of economy. It seems to me that very soon, as soon as this law is applied and it gives good results, it will be necessary to pass a law, which in the 19th century was called the Incompatibility Act (I don't know what it's called now). Its essence is this: if you are a politician, then between your action and your economic activity there must be a border that is legally regulated. If you're a minister in the government, a member of an agency or a privatisation fund, your interest is as a state official to sell something more expensive. But if you're buying it, you're interested in buying it as cheaply as possible. It's a logically incompatible interest. It is a law that is simple to this extent, that Serbia before the First World War had the law as something that is implied, which regulates relations and puts a limit to political influence in the economy. In order for the economy to be free and liberal, to be open, it must be free of political oligarchy. Nothing will be done if one political oligarchy, a communist, replaces another, say uncapitalist. This law shows with its intensities and some of its solutions that it is aware of this danger, that it will not fall into that trap and that, very soon, after the first phase and the first results of privatisation, it will intervene with the anti-monopol law, anti-corruption law and the law on incompatibility. Thank you. (Apaluz. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9943	There is a word from MP Stevan Guduric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9944	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, I point to Articles 113 and 114 and 80, the question of quorum. Few people today swear that this is the most important law, and it's a shame that the hall is more than half empty. So, put what you're saying together with your presence in the O.R., and it'll be fine. Since it's not there, it's a quorum question.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9945	Are you warning of a violation of Articles 113 and 114? (Employee from the place: No, to Article 80) Are you looking to determine the quorum by Article 80? Yeah. I ask the People's MPs to sit in places, to determine the quorum. I remind the MPs of their obligation to identify themselves when entering the O.R. I'm taking a 20-minute break. (Pause starts at 17.04) [[Resume session after break - 17:30]] I find that we have a quorum and continue the session of the National Assembly. National MP Stevan Guduric reported to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9946	The quorum needs to be provided by the MPs. When we get the cards, it's too small. Since there were at least seven more cards under the seventh row than there were MPs, then back off from this. So, Article 113 and Article 114 to do their part of the job, to pick up those cards that don't belong here, because MPs don't sit. Well, let's see how many MPs there are in the O.R. Because the quorum requires MPs, and the cards are not respected as MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9947	If I understand correctly, MP Stevan Z.Guduric expressed his doubts about the existence of the quorum and the violation of Articles 113 and 114. I would ask MP Stevan Z. Guduric to help both the chairman and to warn his fellow MP, who is sitting behind him, also on Article 113 and 114, which implies the obligation to put cards in MPs' units. Since the chairman of the National Assembly is responsible for determining the quorum, I find that the quorum has been identified by electronic means. There is a word from the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, according to the Rules of Procedure. You'd have to identify yourself to get a word in. ) (The MP shall be identified by inserting a card into the MP's unit. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9948	To tell you the truth, what the assembly is like, it's not safe to leave a bike, not a card alone. It could disappear. On the basis of Rule 80 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I express my doubts about the existence of the quorum and require that the count and denomination determine the quorum. For one reason I demand it, this is too serious a point of the agenda. One of the biggest assets in the election campaign and during the work of this assembly was the Privatisation Act. If, like most, you cannot provide the required quorum, do not use tricks to insert cards to be a quorum. People, Serbian citizens expect this parliament to discuss the bill. It's especially the responsibility of most people. We know, we are aware of the fact that you have a longer period of problems when it comes to the end of this assembly, when it comes to Thursday, because many MPs are coming to you. They're going home. They're running. That's your problem. If you are unable to secure the quorum, admit it. Don't use matchmaker methods, pickpockets to use. That's not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9949	I ask the MP to pay a little attention to the expressions he uses for the National Assembly speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9950	I apologize to those who aren't. Secure the quorum, and I demand the chair to be based on Article 80. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, the quorum determines by reference.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9951	The MP's proposal to establish the quorum by calling the National Assembly is decided by a vote. I would like to put the motion to determine the quorum for the remainder of the session by nominate. For 13, against 105, the abstentions were not voted 18, out of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has rejected the proposal of the People's MP, Milorad Mircic, to make the quorum known by a call. I find that we have a quorum and has the word People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9952	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. What to say today, when they are on the agenda of the Assembly, in principle the draft law on privatisation, the draft law on the Privatisation Agency and the proposal for a law on the Action Fund, and most of the proposed part is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Yugoslavia. The key principles of this law are: obligation and commitment. And that's contrary to Articles 64, 55 and 57. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 74 The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Because they guarantee the business independence of businesses, their equality on the market and economic policy measures and prohibit discrimination against certain types of enterprises. With regard to liability and convenience, this bill, first of all Article 14 and the possibility of the Privatisation Agency itself launching the privatisation process of enterprises, Article 16 is indirectly unconstitutional because it is in conflict with other applicable laws, based on applicable constitutions. Still in force, the Federal Company Act left the company's authorities with the possibility to decide whether or not the status changes will be made, that in the creation of a capital society, it can also be paid in wars. The deadlines are set by the company, and the authorities have the freedom to regulate the right of the current shareholders' championship. It should also be said that the federal law, based on the change in the ownership of social capital, is in force, and it obliges the republics that the republican laws must also be compatible with the federal law. These three laws ahead of us should solve the problem of social and state property, which may be a historic moment, but it is difficult to assess how all this will go and what effect it will be. But now it can be said that they are an important part of this government's policy and various lobbies and that this company's policies are incapacitated, disabled, shut down and sold out. The laws are unedited and unclear, and where they are clear, they are unacceptable, because they eliminate or reduce the largest number of acquired and inalienable rights of enterprises, employees, citizens, pensioners and all others. The privatisation law discriminatoryly abolishs citizens' right to participate in a further free share of shares for those who have already used at least one share under the old law for their years of internship. It should be said that the government has indicated for a variety of reasons the cancellation of all privatisations, but it will be discriminated against by a large number of citizens who have become the owners of actions under the earlier procedure. The proposal for a privatisation law abolishes the company's right to broadcast free shares to 60% of the company's capital, and also in article 25, abolishs the right to issue free shares before selling 70% of the company's capital. This article also abolishs the right of employees to free shares in privatisation through extrajudicial alignment. In Article 42, the right of citizens outside the concrete enterprise to apply for free action in each company is abolished, and the right of employees to receive free internships in their company is lifted. Is that okay? Is it okay, and by Article 43, that the right of employees to free shares is completely abolished unless more than 50% of the company's capital is sold. Is it good to have obtained the right of employees to free shares in the dinar equivalent of 400 marks for each year of employment reduced to 300 or 150 marks at the end of 18 and 30 months, which is regulated by Article 46. These laws abolish discounts in the purchase of shares, the possibility of buying shares in 72 wars, the right of farmers to the right to the championship, and the right to compete for free actions in cooperatives and agricultural enterprises, as well as the right to the championship of existing shareholders in the acquired actions in Article 73. Then a discount of 1% per year of employment to wartime wartime people with disabilities, in the purchase of shares, the right to discount on capitalisation, this model is also abolished. The rights of the Republic PIO to 10% of all corporate shares are abolished, so the rights of this fund are reduced from 25% to 10% of the shares sold by the action fund, which is regulated in Article 61. Here the right to broadcast free shares in auction privatisation is limited to 30, or 20, or 10% of capital, depending on the length of the privatisation deadlines from 18 to more than 30 months. It's regulated in Article 45. It also makes it impossible for employees in most companies to exercise their right to free stock to the full, as part of the capital of between 10% and 30% is unlikely to be sufficient. It is also not good that the right to receive free shares is limited, instead of for a maximum of 40 years to 35 years of employment, in Article 43. These proposed laws also have a large number of ambiguities and indetermination and will be difficult to apply, regardless of what the government, the ministry and agencies can do. They can order the company to privatize, determine the methods of privatisation, models, tenders, and even decide on the appeal. If this isn't centralization, and decentralisation is promised. What companies are called a privatisation entity, including institutions. This applies to Article 3. Which in this process, at least formally does not involve municipalities or districts, that at least some participation is due to the existence of natural resources, which are realised in their territory by selling public, primarily municipal enterprises. These companies are now in charge of local authorities. Why isn't that under this law? Not a utility company where I work to be privatized by simple auctions or by the Republic government. Here, too, is the unclear position and authority of the privatisation agency, then, the future method of assessing the value of capital in Article 24 of the principle that market conditions affect the company's selling price, then the models sell through tender and auctions and tender criteria. All of this will be settled by some sublegal act. Is that good? I don't think so. It is not good that vague powers are given to the action fund when selling company shares. Also, the appearance of a large amount of action, and within a short and limited period of time, on the market, will bring down their price, as well as the value of the company's capital. Both state and government can't damage companies like that. It is very interesting that the Serbian Parliament is completely excluded in this decision-making and monitoring process. This is not good again, because it should be borne in mind that very quickly state and social property will be sold with consequences of employment and also on budget revenues. Perhaps, at least through some commission, representatives of the people should have been included in the process, not only to be reported once a year by the action fund. The minister suggested it here, and I think it takes a commission, or a assembly, to be involved. The privatisation process must be free of all suspicions and assumptions. Investors must be promised security, and it must also be politically acceptable, regardless of all the serious consequences they bear, must include both the Serbian Parliament and management, workers and citizens, as well as local self-government. Which means that decision-making criteria for tender privatisation must be concrete and participants should be equal. Huge government, ministry and agency in which they decide in everything, do not guarantee that the privatisation process will be carried out in the best way, as it is, however, a political process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9953	He has the word of Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic. Excuse me, MP Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Minister, please wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9954	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by now Friday afternoon was the day when there was no quorum and there was a drop in concentration and attention among the parliamentary majority, and now it's Thursday, because Friday is unemployed. If we bring in Thursday unworkable, it'll be Wednesday. On the basis of Article 80(5), I suspect that there was a quorum at the last vote on quorum and therefore I ask that you provide me with a list of quorums based on that same attitude. Then we will determine who among the MPs here is forging his presence and who is helping him, who wants to participate in the debate over this law, and who doesn't want, who really wants this job that the people entrusted us with, really wants to do what needs to be done, and who's coming here to wait when the end of the debate will come so that he can press a certain key, go out and do his jobs. So, we don't need a list from the last vote -- whether or not we're going to count ourselves, but a list of what we're about to do with the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9955	The MP shall have the right to make an insight into the computer copy of the Members of Parliament present after the suspicion has been expressed. I ask the Service of the National Assembly to provide the MP with insight into the listing. I apologize, Minister, MP Stevan Guduric, according to the Rules of Procedure. [[Some MPs resent, commentaries are not heard.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9956	I don't know God knows what else, but unlike most of you, I'm here when I have to, and that means when the Assembly does. Article 114, which I just warned you about, so you were deaf, but I'll just tell you that in twenty to six per hour, and not according to me, in the second row there were two MPs and three cards, in the third row six-six, in the fourth row six-seven, I'm talking about this side like this, in the fifth row five MPs and eight lamps, and in the sixth row seven and eight lamps. Meanwhile, a colleague entered the fourth row, and a colleague left the sixth row. So let's not lie to each other. It's not the People's MP's ID card. It's the People's Card MP. So the quorum is MPs, not cards. And, Madam Chairman, and the other day I said, and even today, and you're not simply going to tell Mr. Secretary who is next to you and who is the head of that service, to go into the O.R. and do what the job of professional service is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9957	I ask the People's Messengers to allow one of us, to whom it is entrusted, to hold a session of the National Assembly. I ask the People's Messengers not to speak and earn each other in benches. It's time to explain, by advertising on Article 114. Rules of Procedure. I'll just remind the MP, Stevan G. Gudurić, that he has already advertised an injury to the same member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that we have concluded that there are no injuries, that it is an electronic quorum. And what you've given as an explanation -- rightly here we've had objections that there are impressions and impressions in the debates of the MPs. I don't think there's any reason for us to do this. The electronic route has identified the vote and it is the number of MPs who are currently 130 MPs. Follow the screen, and we'll all know together. The word has a minister, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic, as a member of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9958	I use my right, according to the Rules of Procedure, in the course of the debate in principle that, in addition to the opening report and the closing statement, I speak for 10 minutes. Of course, I will not use all 10 minutes now, but because the public has repeatedly said that the law is in conflict with the Constitution of the SRJ, and that the law is in conflict with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that the law is in conflict with the Company Act and the Law on Fundamentals and Changes of Social Property, my comment is next - nowhere in the Constitution of Serbia does it say that privatisation of social property cannot be armed. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that social property is equal in transport and that it cannot be discriminated against in legal traffic from other forms of property. But in addition to the claim that this does not apply to the extradition of the privatisation of social property, open the Constitution and find Article 59, where an explicit provision is said that social property can be transformed, and the transformation problem determines the Republic's law. If you look at the Company Act, it's not possible to create a social enterprise. Well, it's discriminatory, compared to the Constitution. Gentlemen, you've passed the Company Act. Therefore, this law, from the aspect of these provisions, which relate to the privatisation of privatisation, is not in conflict with the SRJ Constitution, or the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Next, this law can be interpreted as contrary to the federal law on property change, or as it is called, however, I note that the problem of transformation, or privatisation, has been transferred to a republican level. When the problem is transferred to a republican level, then a legal rule can be applied, called the back of a specialis derogat back generals. The same applies to the link between the Privatisation Act and the Company Act. Please, this law was written by lawyers and we knew very well that the law must comply with those constitutional provisions, and it is entirely with constitutional provisions. So much for the formal story. Now let's talk about the essence of social property. So this is a formal story, where we can very clearly show you that the law is not contrary to those provisions. It is very good here to say that this law removes the rights to free division of majority capital, that this law abolishs the rights, I don't know which everything, but gentlemen, look at all the previous laws, and look at the economy, the way it is, and those rights that the workers could achieve. I hope you heard well this morning, when I said -- the accumulated losses in this economy are 500 billion dinars, the lack of trade capital of 670 billion dinars, total internal debt of 847 billion dinars, total debt to abroad of $12 billion, debt to foreign savings of six billion. These are your laws, and these are the benefits you've given previous laws, allegedly, to workers through free distribution. What you've been sharing with them for free -- you haven't been sharing anything for free, but you've been taking responsibility, the burden of responsibility from the state, the moment when, through parallel, uncontrollable privatisation, out of social capital, you've pulled out what you can get out, and then -- let's now share the workers for free, and when tomorrow the company is in trouble and when they come to strike for pay, we'll say -- so you're the owners, that's your company, here you go, solve your problems. We will not demagoguely deceive the people and say, free division achieves social justice. That's not true. By free division, you are, on the contrary, jeopardizing social justice, the social stability of the country's economic development. With free division, you're just taking the weight of responsibility off your back, and we don't want to do that. Because once again I remind you, our key principle is economic development and the creation of conditions for social stability, and that's why we're going towards investment. When we say privatisation, we mean investment. Please, what would happen to the free share of shares, who are these investors who are going to invest in capital? Workers, who will get free shares. Is that the social justice you stand for? I hope not. I hope that social justice is the creation of conditions for economic development and the creation of conditions for social stability, and that can only happen to investments in this country. That's why I'm very, very surprised, when it's easy to reach out to populist passwords and when a heavy political responsibility is taken lightly -- let's split up the action, and then we'll solve all the problems. The division doesn't get anything, we need money to start a devastation economy after 15 years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9959	The word is held by MP Branislav Ivkovic, as president of the parliamentary group (second call).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9960	All those MPs, who applauded as if they were at the DOS rally, I would ask them to take the Constitution of Serbia, because I am about to say that Mr. Minister was saying what was not true. I, Mr. Minister, claim, with the Constitution of Serbia in my hand, that you are violating members 54, 55 and 57. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to read, because I'm going to tell you smarter things than reading this Constitution. Here's the Constitution here. You're breaking Article 74. The Constitution of the SRJ. However, Mr. Minister, as far as I could tell, it is not new to this DOS regime, whose proposed laws, are either retroactive, or break the Serbian Constitution, or federal laws, or do not match at all with the laws that are in the procedure and have not yet been passed, particularly the tax laws of Mr. Bozidar Djelic. I'd say next, my dear gentlemen, it's obvious that some things must be repeated here. We often have ideologies here, and ideologies are not to be talked about. A long time ago it was decided and realised that social capital was not effective, that it had no titleholders and precisely because it had been decided to privatise it. The Privatisation Act, its own transformation, it exists. The law was particularly valuable when the mark course was officially realistic and the right privatisation started, according to the real value of social property. But what's going on? A new government is coming, the DOS government, and it is abolishing the main part of its own autonomous privatisation of enterprises, under which, under Article 64. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia organises and does its own work for each company. Madam President, would you explain to the MPs that they are in parliament?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9961	If so far the MPs have not realized that they are in parliament, it is hard for one of my interventions to explain it to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9962	Therefore, why has the autonomous transformation been abolished? We had a real asset valuation, we had a fact that workers were creating their own businesses. I repeat, construction workers worked abroad for three or four personal incomes, six to eight thousand dollars each, to buy new machinery, to buy new equipment, to arrange new works on the same market. So, the fact is, companies are mostly made of workers. You're terminating your own transformation, you're abolishing it completely to propose a law now that you're taking everything into your own hands. Whose? In the hands of the current political authority, in the hands of the agency run by the current political authority, the action fund, past the Republika Srpska Assembly, without previously known sublegal acts. It is clear then why property and autonomous transformation has been stopped, because if it were continued, you would today have huge capital in Yugoslavia, both private, foreign and domestic, because if workers had continued their own transformation, they would have been motivated in the re-chain to invite those who provide them with re-promatter, who buy their products, to invest. You've abolished the possibility of recapitalisation, but you've already calculated it here for this speaker said that Simpo should pay 7 million marks, and that's why you passed the Taxation Act, so that the workers of Simpa would get 7 million marks, but you won't ask them. (Honey Angelkovic: Tomic, not the workers. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9963	I ask the MPs to respect the Rules of Procedure and do not receive the speaker, and I ask the speaker not to address the MPs individually.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9964	I can only say that I recognize the lady who plays Rako Radovic all the time, but that's her style, lady life and behavior. (Milka Marinkovic: Don't knock.) ) Therefore, you take the workers of Simpa 7 million marks because at certain times they could receive 6 dinars, but you will not ask them what the Serbian government ordered to keep prices at a limited level, you will not ask them what they have invested in developing small and medium-sized enterprises in the villages of southern Serbia, where the national composition is now key to the survival of this country. You're not going to ask them how many import repromaries they've managed to replace with domestic, you're not going to ask them how many exports they've exported, but you've already calculated and announced that you're taking seven million marks here, for this pay phone. This law gives them the right to sell 70% of Simpa to their businesses, which they have created in their work, because the law says that you, the current policy, will sell 70% of Simpa, and then you will allow them to eventually settle in 30% of Simpa. I have to say, there are parties here that are in DOS, but they still have left orientation, and I don't recognize anything from social policy, absolutely nothing from social policy. The right to issue free shares is abolished before selling 70%. It is practically impossible for most businesses to exercise their right to free stock to the full, because part of the capital is all 10 to 30%. Tell the workers they won't be able to achieve their right to action. Tell them the truth, don't lie to them about this pay phone. When 70% is sold, the other workers can't make 10 to 20%. The emissaries are banging on the benches. ( ) Bravo Democrats, you show true Bolshevik totalitarianism. Well done. I have to tell you, you're much nicer when you're banging, on the bench, I think.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9965	I ask the People's MPs to hear from each other all the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9966	A 1% discount is lifted for wartime disabled people buying shares. So, so far, in the current law, wartime military invalids have had a 1% discount per year. You're shutting it down. And what's most important - young - the Republic Labour Market Office had the right to 25% of the sale. Why did he have that right? He was right because it is clear that every new boss, privateer with their capital (shiners should appear to come here on their own chance), each new owner will have to with his capital to introduce rationalization, lose jobs, lose workers, lose labour rights, and therefore the Republic Labour Market Office had 25% of the value of sales. Why was that lifted? So, the chance to requalify, to create new jobs, primarily through small and medium-sized enterprises, is lifted, to hire unemployed. Do you really think you can talk in a atmosphere like this? (Alexander Radosavljevic: You're talking stupid anyway.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9967	All I can do is ask all the MPs of the National Assembly once more to hear each other, regardless of the attitudes expressed at the pay phone. We're bound to listen to each other. Milka Marinkovic: Don't let him hit him. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9968	I think I have another minute right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9969	Twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9970	Thank you very much. I must say that the measure of your reaction is the measure of how hard the truth falls. (Honey Angelkovic: I can't look at your eyes.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9971	Let's try to focus on facts, not emotions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9972	Unfortunately, I have to say, in the end, this law incapacitates completely enterprises... (Milka Marinkovic: Don't knock.) )......................................................................................................... Deplores, closes and in fact prepares a total sale of huge values of social property. This law has no social component, no value of work, no past work of employees. The worst part is that it sells 70%, and the one who buys, then sells 30% to the ones who stay. There is no way for a part related to social policy, through this law, and what is the worst, as well as to the Law of Taxation, and this law is set up to directly implement the current policy entirely throughout the privatisation business. (Milka Marinkovic: Don't knock.) ) A foreign response why in February, the DOS government insisted that the process of autonomous transformation be abolished. Because by passing this law, they put themselves in the position that they are the ones who directly, apart from companies, instead of employees, manage the process of sales. I really didn't expect this question in the congregation. (Alexander Radosavljevic: So do I, Bane. At least tell them to embarrass their parents in this house.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9973	You've received 20 seconds, and I remind all the MPs of the people, for the last time during the presentation of MP Branislav Ivkovic, that we have an obligation to listen to this house, regardless of the attitudes we have personally and which we listen to from others. The right to say what we want means the obligation to listen to what we don't want, whether it's true or not. You've got 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9974	In those 30 seconds, I can tell everyone, everyone after this pay phone and in this room is talking about himself. Thank you very much. (Honey Angelkovic: Return the glasses. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9975	National MP Allen Selimovic, advertising on the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9976	Dear ladies, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Ivkovic has spoken to Minister Vlahovic and told the MPs among other things, and I will now quote: "But I am not going to talk about the Constitution of Serbia now, I will say something much smarter." This has offended the highest state act and us as MPs, I ask that the Assembly declare it and that Mr Ivkovic be warned. (Branislav Ivković, from town: Replica. If the MPs allow me to lead... What's the basis for the replica? (Branislav Ivkovic from the site: He told the lie. ) The basis for the replica would be incorrectly interpreted or offensive. National MP Alem Selimovic quoted and said he was quoting part of your speech. What's been quoted will be checked in the stenogram, I'm asking you to have no basis for replication. (Branislav Ivkovic, from the place: And why don't you let me... )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9977	Because there are rules and because we will follow these rules together, regardless of what we are called and from which party we come and how long we will sit in the congregation. The quote bears responsibility for the MP who made the announcement, as well as for the one who quoted it after the pay phone. I ask the MP to declare whether he wishes to vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I must remind you that he is primarily responsible for breaking the Rules of Procedure. So, I was obliged to warn senior MP Branislav Ivkovic that... (Allen Selimovic, from the post: No vote must be made...) I find that the MP does not ask for a vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. The word has been given by MP Borislav Pelevic, as a representative of the MP group, another announcement. I apologize, Mr Pelevic, MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9978	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at 17 o'clock 28 minutes and 49 seconds, the Rules of Procedure have been drastically trampled, but you should laugh, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in determining the quorum. The MPs who provided the quorum were exactly 126, and among them as registered Zaharija Trnavcevic, Aleksandar Stefanovic, who had not entered the Assembly for three days, Predrag Mijailovic - Lune who left before noon, Cedomir Jovanovic who entered 5 minutes ago and Dr Milena Andric, not to ask for more, only six MPs I found. This really doesn't make sense. I don't know why the National Assembly must look like a circus to you. Why don't you behave the way Serbian radicals behave in this assembly? When you have something to say about a pay phone, when you're in the O.R., and you're in the O.R. when you're not, your cards aren't here, and we don't even put cards on when we're in the O.R., and you leave your cards here when you go home. Everything that's been done after that with this illegal quorum is illegal. After that, you made a decision with this illegal quorum not to count, and after that, the debate was continued. Unfortunately, the minister who proposes to you this privatisation law, whom you don't appreciate at all because you're not 126 to listen to it, and he spoke, and he had no right to speak in the O.R. because there was no quorum at the moment. So please, now everything falls into water and counting and it's not counting and we will and we won't. This list speaks clearly enough about all your cards being in the O.R. and you using those cards...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9979	I ask the People's MPs not to earn it, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9980	And by the way, I'd like to ask you to set up an alcoholic test here, if we knew, those who are drunk...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9981	I ask MP Tomislav Nikolic not to assess the situation...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9982	You know, it's either a mental illness or a condition that's been caused...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9983	I'd like to ask you to keep an eye on us when we speak from a rumor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9984	Since I can't tell if anyone's mentally healthy, I can tell who's drunk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9985	National MP Tomislav Nikolic has received an insight into the computer copy of the national MPs present. What he has as information, has as information, what is found on the computer copy, and in electronic identification of those present, remains as a finding. National MP Tomislav Nikolic can continue to monitor the presence of all MPs and others and the manner in which the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is respected, but the fact that the Rules of Procedure is respected in his request does not question the fact that we have explicitly established the quorum for the meeting and the continuation of the afternoon session of the National Assembly. National MP Borislav Pelevic, as president of the parliamentary group, has another announcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9986	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, in your previous announcement, you have claimed that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has not been violated, and I have also advertised in my first report, in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by this bill, so I will try to assure you that I was right if you allow it. In Article 14. The bill stipulates that social capital privatisation entities are obliged to implement the privatisation procedure for the longest period of four years since the date of entry into force of this law, which is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'll try to convince you that's exactly right, because Article 56. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says: "The social, state, private and social property and other forms of property will be guaranteed. All forms of property have equal legal protection. A foreign person may acquire the right of property under the conditions laid down by the law." So attitude one and attitude two are talking about a social property that I absolutely don't want to defend this time. I believe it should be changed to private property, but I also believe that in any case, our highest act must be respected, and that is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If you'll excuse me, I was right to insist, quoting Article 56. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Given that I want to continue to talk about this law, let me say that the Soviet Union is deeply at the point that privatisation in Serbia must be implemented and that it must already be established and a market economy that will be the way out of the economic crisis that we are in. So, Mr. Minister, obviously we have the same goal, but it's also obvious that we have a different method of achieving this goal. I suppose democracy means respecting various political ideas, so let me say that we would conduct privatisation and what we would avoid in the implementation of the privatisation provided for by the bill that you have proposed to the National Assembly. I believe above all, that the social component is not represented and that no funds have been provided to allow for the requalification, retraining and social security of those workers who, through the application of this law, will be left without their jobs. You have insisted, Mr. Minister, and our Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, that a lot of workers will be out of work, but that they will be provided with the existence and prequalification and requalification of companies that will be the subject of privatisation in other businesses in Serbia. However, I don't see that this law envisioned precise mechanisms, the social security of those workers who would lose their jobs. Already in the beginning, which discusses the transfer of capital without compensation, it is a division of free shares for employees of 400 marks in dinar equivalent for each year of work experience, a major differentiation is created among workers. While a small number of workers, who were lucky to work in highly profitable enterprises, who have the means to pay them off, will double in a year or two or three. But what will happen to the vast majority of workers who work in companies where they will only get fictitious actions, or with significantly less real value than nominal ones, and some won't get that either. If we add to that the fact that many of them will lose their jobs, then the question of the social security of workers working in these companies today is really raised. Therefore, in addition to the allocation of 10% for the PIO Fund and 5% for compensation for those whose assets are nationalised, they should also allocate at least 5% for the social programme and the retraining of those workers who will lose their jobs after the sale of the privatisation entity. One of the biggest dangers for workers to be out of work is in Article 38, the final position of this law, where it is said that the buyer will have an obligation to invest funds in a privatisation entity, to resolve employment issues, to ensure the continuity of business and to protect the environment, and to purchase, on the basis of such an offer, the privatisation entity concerned. So if he buys and registers himself as a new owner, and then instead of the promised investment, closes the company, fires the workers, changes the purpose of the facility, rents it to someone else, or maybe sells and disappears, I haven't found in the proposed law how effectively we can protect ourselves from such opportunities. It is well known in many countries, which have been in transition or are in transition, that such cases have occurred very often, and that the governments of these countries have not found a mechanism to prevent such behaviour from new owners of privatised enterprises. I also believe that not giving priority to our citizens for the purchase of privatization entities through the right of an obstacle to compensation for a certain period of time is not good. Because that shows our people abroad, in the diaspora, that we don't give them the advantage of buying out part of our businesses' assets, when privatizing. I think there are a lot of our people, who are well-standing abroad, who have our citizenship and who are willing to invest their capital in buying our businesses' shares. I am also sure that there are many citizens of Serbia, who are well-standing and who are willing to invest their capital in the purchase of our businesses, if they are guaranteed security by a certain law. That is why I have always felt that we should give priority to our citizens, especially when it comes to farmers, which I also cited in this morning's presentation, which are really big shareholders in agriculture in general, because they have invested their share of production, their actions and their work in the development of this industry. If we wanted to be honest, agriculture couldn't exist and work successfully without agricultural producers. That's why I felt it was necessary to give our farmers the advantage of buying out shares. If we give foreigners an advantage, which this law predicts, when buying out our agri-industry facilities and businesses, I think we're going to put into big question and the sovereignty of our country, because what happens to us if the large areas are bought out by foreign investors? I think the money transfer in the ransom is also a big problem. I don't think that money should go in the register of the Republic budget when it comes to the ransom. I believe that money should primarily go to businesses, or businesses, or people who have worked in these companies for years, stabilised them, who kept these companies from being destroyed, and during that time did not receive pay or receive minimum wages. So, I believe that through a special bank, this capital, which is acquired by the purchase of the company, should primarily be returned to the economy, and only after that, to go to the Republic's budget. I must conclude that the bill provides for the merger of all the funds from the sale of shares only at the expense of the Republic of Serbia, which is really not good, which is the return to the old centralisation policy, so criticised by the current current current government. That's not good, and I think when you proposed this law, you should have that in mind. I think it's also a big problem that many countries in transition, which are in progress or have completed the transition, had such a decent life in the east before the transition. These countries, right now, I want to disprove you in your presentation, have not quite been happy with this kind of privatisation, because they have from 30% to 50% of their citizens on the verge of social ruin, i.e. in a state of social need. I'm afraid this kind of privatisation, by not taking care of workers who work in businesses, who will be privatised, will also be about 50% of our citizens in a state of social need and I don't think that's good. Every privatisation is followed by bribery, corruption and the phenomenon of monopoly. No country in transition was immune from these three evils that happened. I just want to point out the fact that out of 29 privatisation ministers in transition countries, 28 ministers have been arrested for bribery and corruption. I sincerely hope that this will not happen to our minister and that he will be the second minister, who will not be arrested for this. I want him to implement this law in the best possible way, although I am deeply convinced that this way of privatisation will not be good and will bring even greater social differences, problems and what we all fear and what I seem to be no well-intentioned citizen of this country wants, and these are social unrest. I'm afraid so. Mr. Minister, honestly, since I know you're an honorable man and you and I and we all know that by applying this law we're entering an adventure. Maybe we're forced into that adventure. I'm afraid this adventure will be devastating for workers who work in these companies. The Serbian Unity Party supports the idea of adopting a law on privatisation, but will not vote for this law, because we do not think we should be involved in what seems to be called a social disaster. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9987	He has the floor of MP Cedomir Jovanovic as president of the parliamentary group, another announcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9988	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will not be any social catastrophes and the Democratic Opposition of Serbia need not be partners in creating this policy, as it is obvious that there is a misunderstanding during the time and consequences that we are trying to resolve. One who advocates the autonomous principle of privatisation or free division of shares advocates the extension of the robbery of society. There is no director, who started the autonomous privatisation process without ending it as the majority owner of the company, which was thus privatised. Tell one company that started the autonomous privatisation process and which did not end with a majority action package in the hands of the director and its biggest environment. This is what we prevent (one voice: say once). "Progress", Mirko Marjanovic is today a man who controls "Progress" "SIMPO", "Bambi", "Soko-Strk", are all companies, which have started privatising with the free division of company actions, which in the second round of privatisation buy those actions from 15% to 25% of the ones previously prescribed, companies that under the form of rights prevent purchases also take away the little formal freedom, which is guaranteed to workers. [[Applause]] When we talk about the labour market and the funds, which are invested in this alleged labour market, Mr. Ivkovic, please listen carefully to me, it is true that you have influenced the labour market, but only by the fact that you are young, who you are allegedly concerned about, as a labor force, have passed on to New Zealand, Australia, South Africa, in the kitchen as sinks. The intellectual elite of this society, 400,000 of them, you have driven out of this country with your own politics, which you have led away. 90% of people under 30 don't have permanent jobs in this country. [[Applause]] Seven hundred thousand workers are out of work, 750,000 workers are on forced vacations. There is not a single social enterprise, which at this time can find capital sources in employed workers, because these workers live below the poverty line. Yesterday we passed a law taxing 1% of the population. Today we're talking about a law that benefits the 99%. No country that started the transformation process, no country that went into transition today lives worse than when it started. No one will be out of a job in Serbia. Unfortunately, there are now many people without a job in Serbia. What we do is try to start production with a capital that has no name and last name that can be tied to this country. Let's look at the example, let's say which countries have privatized in the way you advocated, which you advocated in the previous law, which countries we want to go through today. Let's see if there are any countries that have applied both models. Yes, it does, Czech Republic. The Czech Republic has granted actions to citizens or has applied a strategic partner model at the same time. "Blight" is an example of integration with a strategic partner from Germany. The damage is a successful company today. Those companies that based the concept of privatisation on split shares failed. Estonia is a country waiting today, as first in line, to join the European Union. Estonia is a country that has applied the privatisation model that we advocate here. When you say, "Let's share the workers with the majority package of actions," we give the free workers 60% of the shares, you say to them in translation, "Here's a 60% debt of $15.5 billion. Here you are, PKB employees, 60% of the 40 million marks you owe, so work it out. Here are the employees of Serbia 60% of the 40,000 companies currently in bankruptcy. Here, the employees of Serbia we care about, find in your empty wallets the means to start production in companies where you employ 980,000, without the basic means of living." Why is Serbia like this? We know very well. But it won't be because we're going to change it. No argument can match the facts that would have contributed to what you were talking about. Autonomous privatisation was the result of an effort by the previous regime to change the form of property without jeopardising its own positions. I repeat, no company that has entered the process of autonomous privatisation has come out of the process without the management of the enterprise taking over the majority package of actions. That's the facts. These are facts that may be difficult to accept, but they are true. When we talk about control and the role of executive authority in the privatisation process, control is necessary and I urge you to participate in it together. To participate in the way it's never been done before. Let them be representatives of all parties on that committee. Let everyone have the right to see what we're doing. Because we don't run away from it. Make 99% of Serbian citizens look through your eyes at the path this country must take. Is that road easy? It's not. But we're not afraid that time. We believe in the potentials of this society, if our individual qualities are what they are, if we have turned things around after 10 years of disaster, national, which was not only a disaster because of the will of someone else, but also because of the inadequacy of our society to change because of the obstacles that existed within it, among other things, in economic terms and as a result of the unpreparedness of the SAA to diverge with the legacy of the half-life communist dictatorship. We're talking about social property in 2001. There's no country in the world that's still talking about it, except North Korea, which is not a state, but a medieval despotia. Are you offering this to the citizens of Serbia? Generations grow up in that country so they don't know what an egg looks like. When we proposed this law, we consulted the unions, but that doesn't mean we'll allow these unions to return to self-government. Workers will have full protection of the state, but workers will not be able to count on this government to be their partner in returning to self-government. We will resolutely insist on the principles of state regulation that function and are applicable. We won't buy social peace unless there are conditions for something like that. No one in Serbia will lose their jobs, but not because we believe this law is ideal, but because everyone in Serbia today is jobless, and those who do not have a work book and those who have it. So, don't scare the citizens of change, point out the problems that are real, but not in such a way that you expect some political profit through this apparition, because that's how we behave, there wouldn't even be room to talk to you. You've left us a society that's been devastated, a society that's anathemized, a society that decides today on its right to last chance. That right will not be taken from him while this assembly has 176 MPs from the Democratic Opposition of Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9989	National MP Branislav Ivkovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9990	Let's let the viewers know that an MP who comes out to talk, that, right, viewers, because there are no listeners here, who goes out to talk gets calls to come back to the house. I guess that's where some tent needs to come to get him... etc. Just so you understand and understand the atmosphere in which someone needs to answer explicitly when they have a strict chairman, because they're not going to happen to be chaired by anyone other than the vice president of DOS. As for responsibility for the state, my dear gentlemen, since the 1993 elections in November, the SPS has not had a majority in this assembly. Since then, we've always had less than 125. But we can talk about your irresponsibility and your understanding of your ability to take over the state at such a difficult time. You were running away from it. As an opposition, you could make most of it and take power. But you shouldn't have. You shouldn't have, because you knew how hard it was, what the pressures of the international community were. There's a noise in the O.R. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9991	I ask the People's MPs for courtesy and courtesy in speaking the words for a pay phone, whether you agree with them or not. Please, let's hear from each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9992	Another thing about transformation, why so much desire to help others. You have at least five hundred collectives in this country, run by extremely high-quality staff, in which they work, to a good degree, excellent workers. Why do you call them morons, that they don't know how to negotiate with private capital, but you grab everything to yourself, that you negotiate? That's the point, my dear gentlemen, is that the people don't fall for that scam. All those who come to the stock as owners can sit alone, for their businesses, with a domestic private or abroad, and negotiate to sell their assets. But you don't give them. You don't let them sell what they created, but you take it for yourself, that in your political power you take care of everyone. I'm telling you, my dear gentlemen, since I do know a little bit more about system theory and information, you're going to have a narrow throat of production, you're going to have too much information, and I'm sure you're going to make bad decisions. Bad for the people, and good for those parties who think it's time to change you in power. Third thing, as far as young people are concerned, my dear gentlemen, ask around the agencies involved in the departure of young people to various foreign affairs. I'm telling you that thanks to you in April and May there were much more requirements for going abroad than last year in April and May. You know why? Because your production is less in March and in April and May than when we, who you think are incompetent, run this country. You're down 30%. As far as young people are concerned, 16,500 scholarships are shared to students of regular studies. The cost of accommodation in dorms was lower than the average value of the scholarship. There was no payment of tuition, nor will there ever be while the Socialists are in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9993	He has the word National MP Dragan Jovanovic, and then Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9994	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first one personal impression. I was happy to listen to Mr. Ceda Jovanovic's speech. I listened very carefully to him and heard many things I heard at the myths. He just left out the story of vouchers, which the Democratic Party spent days and days on television screens, from round tables, with stands by cities, told the people -- Serbian citizens, we are against the privatisation that the SPS advocates, that only workers who are employed and members of their family, pensioners get shares. We are supporters of fairer privatisation, to get the vouchers all citizens of Serbia, and not 60%, but 100%. Political Europe does not remember this kind of political cameleonism. I am pleased that Mr. Djindjic, as head of the party, has today admitted to the citizens that he has changed his mind. This is politically very correct, that the president of one party, which evolves from 100% vouchers to one final right-wing law, clearly recognises it to its citizens. The question is if the vouchers weren't a voice bait. It's a big question. The voters will probably say that in some of the next elections. I agree with Mr. Minister, and I'm sorry he's not here to talk about the Crucial Law. I agree with Mr Veljkovic that this is a historic law. About the historic law for the people of Serbia, for the citizens of Serbia. But, ladies and gentlemen of the DOS majority, historical laws are not passed like this. Historical laws are passed by consensus of all political parties and of all those covered by this law. But the arrogance of the existing government, the complacency of itself, and I don't know what, based on what, prevented this law from being passed by full consensus. The consensus would guarantee that the next parties to power will implement the law for the next five or six years. A good idea like this is doomed, because your power may last a year or two, I can't judge it, and the sustainability of the law is four years. So five is a privatisation deadline. So you won't be able to do what you're about to do. The people of Serbia will not get what they deserve again. I must openly tell you, it is also clear to you that there is an absolute consensus about the character of social property. You get political points here now and you tell stories. Everyone has long since cleared up that social property is the most efficient form of property. Those of us who have been in power for the last 10 years have shown it deeply. Look at today's structure of the economy. In 10 years, the rule of the Socialists is 400,000 private enterprises. You today have 90% of the total social property owned. The entire property, the property is private, the housing is private, 400,000 companies are private. There is therefore no prejudice in the SPS on the need for privatisation. It was very easy to reach a consensus on the need for privatisation and on a good law on privatisation. What's wrong with this law? The conceptal difference between the Socialists and the right parties is in the social component. Ladies and gentlemen, you have proposed to the Assembly the ultimate right-wing concept of a law that sees capital and sees a government that needs money. There are no workers anywhere. There's no man anywhere. That's why this law is doomed. I understand radicals. The right-wing party, declared by the programme, has the right to represent the right-wing concept. Right center, DSS has that right. However, the party that prefers to take the left centre, participates in the European Social Democracy Congress, accepts and is the main protagonist of the right-wing concept of the law. You can see at first sight, and you will see that you have not been able to listen to the MPs of the SPS Group, the head of the group, but very soon you will face thousands of workers. Because workers feel the law as strictly right-wing, because that's what practice will show. Not what I'm saying or what some MP's saying. Practice will prove absolutely right-wing concept. Why could we have made a consensus? Many things from the law are very acceptable. But there are no workers anywhere, there are no men. I'll ask the minister later to answer some specific questions, because the minister is a much nicer story than the truth in the law. The minister tells real stories, but there's not one letter in the law. Why doesn't the law have a social component? The law doesn't have a social component because none of its parts take care of workers. It's not about labor, it's about work for workers. Ladies and gentlemen, the workers are aware, and every day we see it on the street and in the encounters with the workers, that you've been conducting artillery preparation, in a military dictionary, for the adoption of this law. You have previously passed five laws that directly affected the deterioration of the social status of workers. You've been preparing the field directly for privatisation where there's no worker anywhere, no action, no job. You've passed a package of tax laws from which you completely eliminated social policy elements, and I've already talked about it. People found themselves in wonder. You passed a property tax law without counting on the constitutional category - the economic power of the taxpayers. You've passed the law, I'm talking about preparation for privatisation, about gross personal incomes that have a direct objective of closing down the factory. Irregularity. I'll explain everything to you. You have no reason to get excited. Every good host in Serbia, when he chases a cow to sell, he kidnaps her, cleans her up. A citizen who chases a car to the market to sell, doesn't break the front and rear driver of the bar and side glass, then sells the car. And you, ladies and gentlemen, from the MP majority of DOS, do everything you can to defuse the Serbian economy, Serbian businesses. Every move you make is, this practice shows, look at the decline in production, look at the number of closed companies, every move you make through the laws you've passed has affected the weakening of the company's position or their closure. Look at the law on gross personal incomes. Why don't you make a record, here in 15 days? Show the people how close the company was because it couldn't pay the basic taxes, because you gave taxes and contributions to the salary as a basic priority, they couldn't pay on an increased base. Look at the other laws, look at the extra profit bill. Who will explain to the workers of the bakery industry, read the law to Mr Bogdanovic, that part of the bakery industry becomes part of the state property because they received flour from the stock reserves for one dinar and thus committed abuse when selling 200kg of bread for one brand. Or, to the pharmaceutical industry workers who bought foreign exchanges for six dinars, but they sold dillcorans for six dinars, that's six times below the production price. And now you go into the factory and you say -- please, you bought 100 million marks, you owe a course different from 150 million, and that part of the economy belongs to the state of Serbia. So, in every way, you try to weaken the position of the economy. Why would the law challenge the anger of citizens and workers? Because he's deeply unfair. Here, I'll tell you how. You have two companies, two friends or two, brother, godfather, working in two different companies. One works in a company that's been getting high wages. There are them in Krusevec, not to name them, the average plan of 15 or 20 grand, receives that salary and takes them home. He puts 10 grand on savings, puts it in a straw, and the second buys 200 acres of vineyards every year, makes plants, works, develops, invests in his future. What's going on now? What's happening is that the government, irrevocable for money, is going to sell Rubin for some estimated price over the tender and put that money in the government's register, to keep the government safe. That, gentlemen, is a sharp form of confiscation. By the same logic, she could take the money and whoever put it in the straw, because this one was counting, investing for years, receiving much less pay, in developing his factory, doing something for the future. The other one had a big salary, but he didn't invest anything, so he was saving it. We made a big difference. Mr Jovanovic is talking about the wrong and harmful effects of autonomous privatisation. I think it's total improvisation. I would ask him personally for me to bring the register from the action fund to the next Assembly, to see who it is and what a magical way he could have mastered most of the action, when it was known that each worker was getting 400 marks each year, and that was the only criterion for getting action. Therefore, someone would have to have a thousand years of work experience in order to master the majority action package. What I want to say about the law - please, the stories are for small children, I would ask that Chad or the minister show a member of the law, which obliges the future buyer to invest in the factory. There is no such member of the law. They must know that such a member of the law does not exist. There's a contract on a tender, an obligation to invest. So he can buy a factory and lock it down. Therefore, due to the absence of any element of social justice, the Socialists will be against such a law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9995	I ask the Members of the People to give us a certain length of time, which we have according to the Rules of Procedure, all of us who apply for the discussion respect. The rules, as one of my friends said, are not for opponents, the rules are for all of us, and that we respect, and that we move within the time that we have decided, that it is for us to debate. There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, a replica, mentioned in the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9996	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, anyone who takes the risk of classifying certain political parties, should first, as a minimum, or as the end of their political education, read the textbook "Political System", written by Prof. Vojislav Seselj, and then be more clear to him, and especially to the SRS, and by working in this assembly, it is at least three-quality -- one that we have the best party president of all, and parliamentary and extraparliamental parties, the man who has held brilliant lectures here in the past few days from knowing the legal and economic science, and I guess nobody can challenge him anymore. Furthermore, we are a Serbian national party, we are not ashamed of it, we are proud of it, and we are a party that advocates privatisation and liberal capitalism. If I didn't love this country and I didn't love this people, I'd be ashamed of it. Because I love them more than anyone in the world, I'm not ashamed of it at all. You see for yourself, it's said here that a right-wing law is passed, and no wonder what the radicals want, they're right-handed, so they'll ruin the country, like right-wing men. So God forbid this land is led by left-wings, and everything is in private hands, as it is in Sweden. I'd really like that. And there, the parties that are in power, no one can accuse them of being the ultimate right. So it's not determined by that. Indeed, with respect to your argument that the guilt of the sundial economy is not borne by workers or directors, that we have been exposed and ready to be in disaster, because this would not survive any other country, you still need to know, that when you vote this law, you, the MPs of the majority, take on a terrible responsibility. Are you aware of that responsibility? I'm not sure yet. Are you going to answer that, and I'm not sure about that, but the trust that most people in this congregation will show you is very limited, and I hope that because of that trust some of you who decide vital things in this country won't go to jail. That's what I sincerely hope for. I have ten more seconds of time -- in the future, gentlemen of Parliament, when you vote for the budget or when you vote for the government, think well about what budget you voted for and what government you voted for. Whoever voted to make the budget 140-150 billion, let him think that this government will settle the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9997	There is a word from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica to the presentation of MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9998	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is reportedly a matter of DOS' unpreparedness to a policy of respect for national interest, which comes through consensus and respect for political rivals. That's not true. We are prepared for consensus, but we are not prepared to respect the consensus that has been promoted and which rests on principles -- little to you, little to us, and the people a sack of potatoes, instead of pay. That consensus will never be in Serbia again, while it depends on us. As far as the report is concerned, a copy of the register, etc., sir, since yesterday is the concern of the Republic Public Revenue Administration, which is taxing under the Extra Profit Act. I'm going to remind you of several grand privatization ventures of people who were senior party officials of the SPS. For example, in the case of "The Diamond" from Zrenjanin, in the case of "Technos", or in the case of "Politicals" - AD Belgrade. I will read to you as an example of justice stemming from the concept of autonomous privatisation, a brief report by the Commission, which controlled privatisation and procedure implemented in the action society "Diamant" from Zrenjanin. "The transformation process of this company began in 1991. Three years later, after the revaluation was carried out, the share ratio in capital was 80% to 20% in favour of social capital. The Diamond - Bank, in which the majority owner is Diamond, gives the shareholders Diamond credits for ten years, with an interest rate of 9% per year, without revaluation and with a grace period of one year. So it's a 20-percent loan. Only 27 shareholders took advantage of 62.39% of the credit appropriations, with their commitments to the current year at the end of the year at the end of the year. So 3% of shareholders became owner of 63% of the Diamond company, and 91% of shareholders participate in capital with 25%. After the adoption of the law on extra income tax and extra property, a group of 3% shareholders will be obliged to pay a one-time tax on the aggregate base of around six million marks, and will not be difficult to pay six million marks, because it is not half the profits they earn in one month. But, sir, this is an example of autonomous privatisation, where 3% of the shareholders became the owner of over 90% of the Diamond stock, and 90% of the shareholders remained on the street, with worthless paper in their hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u9999	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u10000	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see today there has been great interest in the behaviour and political attitude of Serbian radicals, not only in the National Assembly, but in all of Serbia, in the adoption of the law on privatisation. Namely, the SRS, among other things and as a party of the moderate right, advocates privatisation, and we have always felt that privatisation is a confidio son of luja non (unfortunate condition) of economic efficiency. What is good in this law, we, no matter what the marketing experts say, must say that it is good, and that is the obligation and commitment of the privatisation process. That's what we argued about when we passed the previous laws, but we didn't have enough majority in the National Assembly to accept it. Perhaps one of those dealing with political marketing will say, this is the principle of the Serbian Radical Party's stance may not be politically productive, because there will be a lot of problems with workers already in a month, two or three, so they will say -- and the radicals were also for privatisation. Maybe someone will say that it's wrong for any of us to criticize so strongly the criminal law that was before this on the agenda, which no law school professor I called from this pay phone ever called, has reported to praise him, as you could see for yourself. But we think that we have shown a few things: primarily our political principle, our political consistency and the fact that we do not want demagogical advances in the National Assembly, and in the political public to score political points. We think that politics must be dealt with seriously, because the moment we come to power, people will ask us what about those promises of Spanish villages, what about what you're going to do to us and what you're going to do to us, and it's not exactly like that. Namely, to refer to the Constitution and what I think would be necessary to do, and it is about this law, which Professor Seselj spoke of extensively enough earlier this afternoon. In fact, Minister Vlahovic said and read, or quoted Article 59, which correctly states that privatisation, i.e. change of property status, is therefore property forms of social and state property, but is also true to Article 56. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees, among other things -- of course we don't like it, but the Constitution is something much more important than whether or not we like something -- and social property, and in Article 121. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia clearly states that no member of the law, no general legal act, no regulation must and cannot be contrary to the Constitution. So the best solution would be to just point out, even if there were certain differences, that it was a sub-format of state property and then we wouldn't have any more problems, not even for a debate before the Constitutional Court, when a constitutional court is formed, and I would say that we would remove all formal and legal obstacles to the adoption of such a law and I think that would be the best possible solution. As for these stories about whether it's right-wing law or left-wing, I just have to say for those who don't know it, that back in the '60s and '70s, since the oil shock, that so-called. The ideology of states of prosperity and Kensian theories of interventionism suffers huge changes, that so-called The new right’s ideology is experiencing its true renaissance, and even returns to Western lands, to which leftists in the Assembly are called. Even the economic orientation of the carpenter in its brutal form is experiencing a real renaissance, but we think something else should have been done. If not by this law, then some other laws within the framework of social - labour law, and even this law could have foreseen it, so that we do not go to some sort of secondary legal legislation. Social programs could have been predicted, because it's something that as a state, we still have a duty to do. Now I will try, specifically speaking of individual members, to point out the objections of the Serbian Radical Party, which is what could be better. That's what we were talking about today. If such remarks of Serbian radicals were accepted, we believe that this law would not be bad and therefore we do not want to avoid any kind of responsibility and to say - no, privatisation is not good because there will be some problems. Of course it will be, but if there are already these problems and they are announced by the Minister of Privatisation and the Prime Minister, and they say that it will be fired from 400,000 to 700,000 people, there must be a clear social programme, or in the context of the law, there must be clear assumptions as to how all the consequences will be caused by the adoption of this law, how many people and from which areas of industrial production, from which areas the economy will be laid off, how to make requalification, docvalisation, and how we will help these people, or socially provide them. Because the last area and one of the rights of the last generation of human rights are so-called. the social rights of citizens. I would now say something about the 28th member - a call for participation in a public tender should include resolving employee issues, ensuring continuity of business and something that represents the last generation of human rights, which is protecting the environment and that is what is not mentioned in this law further, the question of the power of the minister around the education of the tender commission is raised. We'd like to know, without any ill intentions, who are you and by what criteria are the members of that committee being educated. Secondly, the role of the tender committee is not sufficiently limited if the agency proposes the results of the public tender to the commission. That's what I think should be clearer to everyone. As regards public auctions, the process of selling capital or property through a public auction was also given in a rather general manner, without indicating the criteria for determining which companies would be privatised through public auction. I'm talking about article 36. There are no criteria on the basis of which the privatisation agency chooses members of the auction board. It also raises a logical question whether one commission is being formed for all sales via auction or for each sale individually. Now I would like to say a few words about what Mr Jovanovic was talking about, mentioning the Czech Republic. As far as strategic partners are concerned, you have examples in Casca where partners from Germany came, especially from the former East Germany and the works of the strongest economic operators and giants from the heavy industry, who came with their technology but outdated technology. Their technology, which had already finished the job in Germany, gave Czech Republic and thus prevented the technical and technological development of the Czech economy itself, while doing almost its destruction, and the small effects were there. As far as the voucher privatisation is concerned, this is exactly what those parties who are now proposing to us what was partly the concept of the Serbian Radical Party, contrary to those privatisations against which Serbian radicals were still in 1994, and particularly against the revaluation law, that retroactively annul something that is not passed by this law. I would only further say that under Article 41 of the Social Programme, ensuring continuity of business, protecting the environment, as we have spoken in Article 28, should be mandatory elements of the sales contract. It's something that we think should be an important condition and something that for those who need to invest, for those who need to spend living money, their capital, their technology, shouldn't be a big problem, and it would be a significant guarantee for our country. I would say only about article 54, under which they rely on citizens without compensation, is brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The question arises when making a decision and based on what, but there is no need to single out those workers who have already acquired that right on the basis of the job experience and all the other citizens of our country. It even includes not only adult faces, it has to be minor faces, it has the right principle of Infans conceptus, so the unborn child and they have to be completely equal in all of this, but also people who have gained it through their internship. They must not be told that as if it were a right acquired without having the right of all citizens to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u10001	Ten minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u10002	I'll finish. Furthermore, I think, since we will deal in particular with amendments and in detail with the members of this law, if the Privatisation Act is not bad, it can be better, and if the objections of Serbian radicals were accepted, we could also vote for it, but I think we must work to adopt a comprehensive social programme to solve large and accumulated problems. There will be people on the streets if we don't do it in September or October of the month. It's not a summoning or anything, it's quite certain, because that's what happened in all the countries where transition was done. And if that doesn't happen, I'm afraid that the medicine Mr. Djindjic was talking about here this morning, that it's not like giving us a penicillin to someone who's allergic to penicillin, so the patient dies, even if it's for the best. As for what Mr. Jovanovic was talking about, I end up in one sentence, if no privatisation had been done, and if the members of the leadership had not acquired a majority package of actions, I would point to a small, almost insignificant example...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u10003	11 minutes and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u10004	I'm done. As for the Sports, Business and Cultural Centre "Pinky" in Zemun, I wasn't the director, but I was the chairman of the Pinky Management Board and today I don't have any action in Pinky, although such privatisation has been made. If you've found one or two or five examples, it doesn't mean that everywhere insider privatisation is conducted, it's not a factory, but it doesn't mean that it's been reported that all criminals, but those who are criminals go to jail. As I don't think criminals will be the ones to enforce this law, and they won't. And it is not a key problem of this law that the minister is now a representative of the company Deloji Tuš, which is in charge of financial salting or not, because the works and what will be shown, how privatisation will be conducted, will be a real example and an indicator of what and what our relationship should be to all of that. As for Serbian radicals, it seems to me that we have shown in the best way today how to behave and how to speak to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u10005	So 13 minutes. The word is made by MP Dragan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u10006	Ladies and gentlemen, it's multiple meanings of this law and it's not just spoken of today, it's been spoken of in public for several months, it was spoken in this assembly when other laws were involved. Its historical dimension is that it abolishes social property, it gives a chance to an economy that is in a stateless state, it definitely depolitises the economy and mixing of political parties in the economy, this concept puts all entities involved in economic life in an active role, and ultimately, this law is in the interests of workers and workers and, I would say, given that the key law is economic reform, that it is also in the national interest. The dilemma that has been set here whether it's left-wing or right-wing concept, I think it's set up wrong. We've had conflicts, not on this principle of concept, but conflicts between one verse, uncontrollable through this proposal for a public, regulated but real concept. It's not a fictitious, already real privatisation. The historical dimension of this law is that it abolishes definitely social property. Social property isn't just an inefficient form of property, and it seems to me that dams don't mention efficiency as a problem. Social property is the material foundation of a failed ideology that is not opposed to another ideology, but that is contrary to human nature, but is the material foundation of a ruling elite that, with the parallel existence of private and social property, is easily enriched and is the subject of our previous law. If there is fear of privatisation, then it is this fear that stimulates those private companies that symbolize the previous government, or which have become rich in a short period of time likely to be the reason why someone who has thus come to wealth has now expressed fear that they will buy large commercials. It is this law that does not give such a chance, because it does not give the price as the main reason, but rather some other conditions that such companies cannot meet, because they have not acquired wealth on the market, have not gained work, but have gained thanks to the political positions they had in the social enterprises of the primary show, and they, in this law, have no chance. The critics, or defenders of social property, at this point appear more as staunch defenders, interpreting the Constitution in their own way, avoiding saying the essence and meaning of the connection between social property and the previous government. Depolitisation of the economy is one of the important things that this law achieves, because the partner, the private owner, will not determine the directors by the party books, but by guaranteeing that they will keep the property and earn profits. If we have criticised previous managements by companies, if you have criticised some leaderships who came in a union fight after October 5th inside the company, then the opportunity is to definitely break up with it and take the leadership into the company by another criterion. Will the supply and demand ratio lead to a low price? I don't think this law brings out chocolate, nor does it bring out potatoes, but there's another logic. The private investment in a brewery may bring a strategic partner to the packaging producer. The arrival of a strategic partner in cementery may lead a strategic partner to construction firms. So that's another logic, the opening of the market can attract, not knock down the price, as it was presented here. And in the end, why do I think this law is in the interest of workers? It's because it gives priority to selling to strategic partners, which should primarily provide the market, technology and social programme, not just a high price. There's a lot of examples here. I read it myself that Dutch Phillips bought a German Grundig. Why some richer Germans didn't buy it, but the aliens bought it, and this is at the expense of those who speak of sovereignty in privatisation, because the Philipps could hire 6,000 workers, because it provided a social programme. I'd like to see a duck like that show up for El Nis or a company like that. Finally, this law allows the mobility of capital, i.e. it can never happen again that the company is so wasted that its property is three times smaller than the debts, but it will be beneficial to change owners and protect workers and workers' rights. I'm sure the number of directors, unions, will take advantage of the chance the law gives to stimulate, to go into privatisation in the first phase, to provide benefits. The role of the state is to sign the rules, to send a signal to the start, and to get the directors and everyone involved in the business life faster and faster to the finish line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u10007	The word has a minister, he's already answered. Please, the MP is advocating a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Milorad Mircic is looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. ) (Milisav Petkovic: I am also looking for Business, he did not insert a card. ) (The word was answered by Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic. ) Mr. Vlahovicu, just a moment, the MP advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u10008	It's a card from colleague Zlatan Jovanovic. There's a colleague's card left, so I put it in my pocket, do you believe it? I'm advertising a member's injury in the '80s, and that's obvious there's no quorum. I understand and understand the minister's wish to go out for a pay phone and give the final word. With the full respect of the minister and the bill of law that he presented to this assembly, we still need to respect the assembly procedure and the Rules of Procedure. It's obvious there's no quorum. Please, Chairman, don't let us vote again whether there's a quorum or not, with the naked eye you can see it's gone. Don't let those pharmacists show up or God asks you who's been out of the O.R. for three days. I don't think there's any problem, nor will the Assembly lose if we continue on Monday. My proposal is to make a compromise, let the minister be the first speaker for this speaker on Monday. We agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-21-0.u10009	The President or Chair of the Assembly shall decide on the order of speakers at each meeting of the Assembly under the Rules of Procedure. All those MPs, who advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask them to respect the interpretation of Articles 113 and 114. The Rules of Procedure on the use of identification cards and to agree as the National Assembly once that the rules are not for opponents, but rules are for all of us and that they are not opponents here, but associates. Indeed, I would ask all MPs together to respect this National Assembly, regardless of the group’s paramentary right to seek and demand quorum as an obligation to hold a session. By the advertising of the People's MP Milorad Mircic, I ask the MPs to establish the quorum (Glasses: There is no Messenger Mircic, he has come out. ) Whether there are breaks or not, the chairman will determine whether there are quorums or not. It's mostly the obligation of one who presides. At 19.25, I realize we don't have a quorum to work with. We interrupt the session and proceed on Monday, June 25 at 10.00 hours. The first registered MP is Zivko Selakovic. The Minister has the right to have a word with the Rules of Procedure.
