ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13960	Dear President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to state on behalf of the group of MPs the reasons for the adoption of the law on chambers of commerce in Serbia. Chambers of Commerce are one of the basic market institutions in developed countries of the world. These are interest organisations of the economy and, as such, they are in most developed countries of the world a partner of government and trade unions. The democratic changes that have taken place in our country have led to the need to transform the chamber system in Serbia. In any case, you know that in the previous period, most companies were social enterprises, and thus the government influenced the selection of directors in these social enterprises, which as such were members of the Chamber of Commerce, i.e. The Chamber of Commerce in a previous period was often extended by the hand of the system. We believe that in the democratic changes and in the framework of the laws that we have passed so far, the Law on Privatisation, the Chamber of Commerce in the future still needs to be obtained in real importance. First of all, I would like to remind you that the first Chamber of Commerce was founded in Paris, in Marseille, in 1599, that the Austro-Hungarian monarchy founded its first Chamber of Commerce in 1850, that Serbia had established the first Chamber of Commerce with the apparition of Prince Aleksandr Karadjordjevic, and here we have the structure (holding the document) of the Trade Committee in Belgrade since 1857, which can also be considered the first Chamber of Commerce established in Serbia. The current chamber system organisation was established under the 1979 law, which could be considered an outdated system, during the period when there was a Law on Joint Labour. By passing a new constitution, the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia was established by law in 1992, and the Chamber of Commerce of Montenegro was established in 1998. Yugoslavia is a member of the European Chamber of Commerce Association, which has 14,000,000 members. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, the previous draft law of the Committee on Industry, which supported 108 MPs, was withdrawn due to the extension of the public debate, i.e. due to the summer period, when the public debate on chambers of commerce in all economic operators was extended. The current law on chambers of commerce is a bill of eight MPs, but it can be said with small changes that are in line with the Constitution. Business chambers in Serbia should be organised according to the reputation of the European Union's Chamber of Commerce. Proposers wanted this definition to be consistently implemented in the proposal for this law. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the laws on chambers of commerce exists in Article 72(1) point 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. By studying the foreign experience, we have defined ourselves as the Eurocontinental chamber model, which exists in the Federal Republic of Germany, France and other European Union countries. In all the former Yugoslav republics, chambers have been organised with respect to the countries of the European Union, and this is particularly true of the business chambers of Slovenia and Croatia. This law establishes the chamber as a public-legal institution. Commercial chambers are entrusted with the exercise of certain public powers laid down by law. It is true that in the previous period a large number of these powers have been abolished and transferred to various institutions and ministries, and we believe that in the future the law will bring much back to the chambers of commerce. Chambers of Commerce are non-governmental, non-party, independent and independent interest organisations of non-profit-based operators. Chambers of Commerce are unique associations of all economic operators. The membership in chambers of commerce is based on enrolment in the court register. All economic operators carrying out economic activity shall be organised in chambers of commerce as legal entities. So, all companies, craft associations, all craftsmen and natural persons are collective members of the Chamber of Commerce, through the Association of craftsmen. Together with cooperative alliances, individual agricultural producers are collective members of the Chamber of Commerce, and all associations, defined, formed in these areas, can be collective members of the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber Systems in Serbia. There are three levels of organisation of business entities in the Republic of Serbia -- Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, the province's Chamber of Commerce, Belgrade's Chamber of Commerce and the regional chambers of commerce. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce is taking up one roof organisation of this chamber system in Serbia. The single system of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce will carry out division of work and competence. The financing of the Chamber of Commerce shall be made from membership fees and fees for the services performed. The decision on how to finance shall be made by the authorities of the chamber. Whose chamber is it? The chamber is an economy and the chamber is run by business owners and businessmen. The chamber has a congregation, a board of directors, presidents and border committees. In this way, over 800 members, i.e. business operators and business directors, manage the chamber and are not on paid-up functions. The law establishes a system of chambers, chamber membership and the activity of the chamber, as well as a way of mutual co-operation. The Chamber's Statute and a special act on mutual co-operation will arrange for members of the chamber to manage the chamber, elect the representatives of the chamber's body and to carry out the work for which the chambers are established. The work of the chamber is given in detail in Articles 10 and 11. The bill, some of which I will mention: providing and organising professional assistance to my members, improving and improving economic co-operation with abroad, presenting domestic economy in the country and abroad, providing timely and quality information, finding potential partners, launching anti-dumping initiatives, organising lectures, seminars and courses, coordinating the interests of members of the chamber. In the Chamber of Commerce, the Court of Honor and the Permanently Selected Court are educated. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the public debate over the chamber law began nine months ago, in all regional chambers of commerce, with businessmen. Given that this law has received support from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Chamber of Commerce, as well as its compliance with experiences in other countries, I suggest that you vote for the adoption of this law on behalf of the promoters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13961	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Has anyone given an opinion at committee meetings? No, I don't. ) Do the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13962	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, the SPS parliamentary group supports the chamber law and will vote in favour of the law. Why do we support the law? For one simple reason, because the law is good. This fact completely disproves Mr. Ceda Jovanovic's mystic thesis yesterday, that he knows that the opposition always votes against the law for political reasons. The SPS MPs do not vote on these criteria. The SPS legislators vote whether they are good or bad, thus protecting or jeopardising citizens' interests. Unfortunately for us, and unfortunately for the Serbian citizens, not our fault, in the past year, the Serbian government has sent to the Assembly mostly catastrophic laws, laws that threaten citizens' interests to the greatest extent, and almost all are against the constitution. Let's just remember the Law on Taxes on Old Cars and Mobile Phones, Tax Laws, Property Taxes, Social Laws Packages, Privatisation Act and the Law that will come to the agenda tomorrow - labour law. All these laws, citizens have already seen this, are strictly at the expense of Serbian citizens. Why are they the most harmful? What their common denominator is, we've been trying to look at it all these days, that's what a soul is drawn from them. There's no man in them, there's capital everywhere, and there's a worker in the mud. I said we'd vote for this law, because it's a good law. Those who watch TV will probably get horrified. People will not believe that the government has given good law to this congregation. However, I must disappoint them. The law is very good, not being proposed by the Serbian government, but proposed by a group of MPs, and signed by lawmakers from six parliamentary groups. Practice in this assembly shows, and this is what the citizens saw, that mostly always better laws proposed by MPs or parliamentary groups than government laws. I think the government needs to worry about this fact and that this fact gradually disqualifies the Serbian government. Let's just remember the law on small and medium-sized enterprises, the law on the protection of minors, the Law on Courts, which the Socialists supported, and was proposed by the DSS parliamentary group. We supported him because he was much better than the law proposed by the Serbian government. Why is this law good? He is good for several essential reasons, because in a very comprehensive and complex way he regulates the association of businessmen in their association - the Chamber of Commerce. It's also good because it's very precise in defining the tasks of the chamber and its tasks. It is good for the reason that it has passed a broad public debate, unlike many laws, and has encountered general support in all economic chambers in Serbia. It is also good for the reason that in the current and modern way it manages to fit into international legislation in this area. I purposely said "in the current and modern way", as the government often says its laws are European. I have no doubt they are European. However, I think that this law that follows -- the labour law -- is European, but the minister who went to sign the bill probably entered the wrong archive, so he prescribed the 1930 law. That's what the citizens will see. The labour law reminds us of the 1930 law, because there's only capital in it at the top, there's no worker anywhere. So that law must be European. There's one fact that there's never enough good laws and so many good laws that they can't be squeezed through public debate. We'll try to discuss with a few amendments what we still think is not a good fix. However, a small problem arises here. We'll have a good law on chambers of commerce after this law is passed, but there's one little thing missing, ladies and gentlemen, we won't have an economy, because this government has succeeded in destroying this country's economic system by its actions or inaction. I don't think anyone could answer the question at a very high-end award quiz (I urge fellow MPs to come out and answer): Which large factory in Serbia has been working for a year? That could be a rewarding question. Does the flag work? Does "Zorca" work? Is the car factory working? Does "Magnophrom" work? Does "Viscosis" work? Is the electronics industry working? So the big systems have been stopped with a clear intention of being sold out. Therefore, we won't have enough associations for the Chamber of Commerce. Small factories, small systems shut down because of inadequate tax laws -- therefore, we'll have a chamber law, but we won't have an economy. However, I advocate that this law be passed, because this government (which has led to this situation in the economy) probably won't be long, some other government will come to create a better economic environment, and then we will definitely need a good law on chambers of commerce. That's why I'm asking you to vote for this law on chambers of commerce.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13963	The word has a National MP, Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13964	Dear fellow Members and fellow MPs, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Democracy of Serbia took part in the creation of this law and, said counterpart Jovanovic, in his wake to come to us in this form before the MPs and before the assembly committees. But I can't help but get the impression, whenever a representative of the SPS comes out on this phone booth, he automatically gives me a credentials to put the ball back in their backyard. SPS representative Mr Jovanovic said here that the democratic government, founded by the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, which has gained the country's citizens' absolute trust, has destroyed the economic and economic system in the past year. As it had to come out for this pay phone, (or else I highly appreciate it as a man) to say that we destroyed the economy of Serbia and Yugoslavia to ask us which big company at this time or the last year is working to forget and overlook, (and therefore should it be when it comes out for this pay phone to shut up) that they have destroyed, destroyed and robbed the country's economic and economic system for 10 years back. Now let's go back to the proposed law. Thus, it is perfectly normal for one such bill to come before this assembly -- because it was high time, after a year, for a much more modern bill to come than the previous law, based on which the current Chamber of Commerce of Serbia has worked. Because it is finally time for the Serbian Chamber of Commerce to become a real association of businessmen, who will not only gather, but also represent the businessmen and do everything to make businessmen partner with the government in creating and implementing the country's economic policy -- not what it has been so far, the most ordinary policy transmitter adopted by the government, which in most cases has just been fatal to economic and economic development. For these reasons, all MPs of all parliamentary groups should support this concept of a new law on the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Because we hope that this will be a new economic start, a new role for the economy and for the business of Serbia, which together and in co-operation with the government, will indeed do everything to achieve all those reform intentions of the democratic government of Serbia -- which should be achieved in the coming years, by one failed, robbed economic and economic system to create conditions for a new start, for new progress. True, we have had the opportunity to hear the best news that Serbian citizens have been able to hear for the last few days, that this government has succeeded in agreeing with the world and such economic measures to help our economy and our economy, to make it much easier to reach those objectives that are also programmed, conditionally said, by contract with the people, or by the promises of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, which we gave ahead of the elections to the citizens of Serbia and the people of Yugoslavia. For these reasons, this law should be supported and I hope this will be one of the few laws that will be passed by a vast majority of MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And once again, Mr Jovanovic, it is a pity that you have given a good introduction, which you have given in support of this law, has ruined the estimates that this government has ruined the economy and the economic system of Serbia. I hope you'll come out again for this pay phone and apologize to us, say, "I'm sorry, I forgot we did it."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13965	Replica, Mr. Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I highly appreciate Mr Kovacevic, but at least I expected him to be replicating on the subject I was talking about. I expected the Minister of Economy and Privatisation to come out, so that what I was saying was to answer the arguments, to bring out one piece of paper nicely to the citizens of Serbia and say: 24 thousand cars were produced in the flag last year, in this year, when there were no sanctions, two thousand were made; last year 10,000 tractors were produced in IMT and 650 were produced in this year when there were no sanctions; to come out and say how much Zorka produced from Capac in this year, and how much in the last year. So, let's talk about arguments. Yesterday, the minister said, denying some thesis, that the decline in industrial production is 10% this year. He said a big deal -- it's not 10%, it's 2%. It is a great success for the Serbian government that in the year we were surrounded by friends, when there are no sanctions, when everything goes like honey and milk, compared to last year we have a lower production drop of only 10%. How many factories worked last year, and how much they work this year, especially the big ones who know Serbia's workers better than anyone who knows those 15,000 workers from the flag on the street, the workers from all major Serbian factories know it best. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we can compromise, but with numbers and facts, the data provided by the statistical institute. Not for political or political purposes to make up stories. No fictional stories. I've invited every MP to come out and say what capacity and what physical volume the big factories worked in this year, which in the past, before the bombing, or in someone who's supposed to be a rapper this year; and that's 1989 or 1990, because there's no sanctions, so there's no other kind of problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13967	He has the word Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13968	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in order not to have a dilemma, Mr Jovanovic had a personal replica and I have a replica as president of the parliamentary group. And otherwise, Mr Jovanovic is authorized to represent this agenda item of the SPS parliamentary group until the president's return. To be clear, everything is absolutely legal and pure. I'm sure it's necessary to have morals, to speak for this speaker, but it's necessary to have both family and personal education. To speak for this speaker about the last 10 years has every right, and we most often hear that story when there are no arguments for those arguments that we are making and when it's going in an attempt to muddle something flat and palitative. For the past 10 years, the SPS, which has been in power, has a great responsibility, because it has been in power, but it has been hypocritical to talk about the past 10 years, not to talk about everything that has been done, from the fictional Markals, to the imaginary Rack, to this people and to this space. It is certain that we bear the greatest responsibility. And what was the opposition doing in the past 10 years, who was ringing bells, who asked what the goals of the war were, who asked not to pay financial and tax taxes, who asked not to pay utility services, who wanted anarchy in a country that defended national dignity and their people? You should think carefully about morality, personal education, especially if you were personally very successful in those 10 years with your private businesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13969	There's a word Mr. Zivica Predoev.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13970	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representative of the Government, I will try to return the discussion to where it belongs, or return it to the Chamber of Commerce Act. But before that, since Mr. Ivkovic here said earlier that there was a need to talk about arguments, I have to remind you very much about this law that until this moment in Serbia, the chambers of commerce function, if they function, according to the 1979 law. I really need an explanation, I'm going to try to be very polite and ask - who is from the opposition, forbidding the previous authorities to pass a law that would arrange such an important area for the settlement of the economic environment, which has prevented any law from being passed since 1979, some regulation, something to say -- come on, people, this Chamber of Commerce should work, should function and should represent the economy in front of the Serbian government. I want to tell you why you didn't bring it -- you didn't bring it not because of the opposition and the opposition's operation, but because you didn't need it. At this point, in fact, this country and this economy, which has very big problems, needs between the other and the law on chambers of commerce, which all previous speakers have said is good, and I will explain to you why it is good -- because it was made by people who were not burdened with vanity, who made one proposal, and this proposal had a lot of remarks. We've withdrawn a complete proposal, unburdened by our word being the best, the smartest. We have consulted all those who are interested in making a good law and now there is a law before you that really has every chance of being the best law-abiding ever in this congregation. And otherwise, since I am in a double role right now, I am practically representing the Sandzak Democratic Party's parliamentary group and the Vojvodina Reformist, and I am also with Mr Jovanovic -- who used the story of this law, of a good law, to attack the work of the Serbian government, which was absolutely not appropriate, because the Chamber of Commerce is the business, and the Serbian Government is the Serbian Government, and we can always talk about it -- and the legislator of this law. And that's why I'm saying -- the parliamentary group that I'm representing right now is going to vote for this bill because it's good and because it takes the economy of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13971	He has the word Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13972	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a law I could expect a few years ago, adapted to a system I'm already quite convinced of, and you think it's very good and that nothing needs to be changed in such a system. Technically, this is a good law, and when you praise it, praise its technique, but the basic observation is that the chambers have not stopped being extended by the hand of the system. I'll prove it to you easily. If there was competition in the Republic of Serbia, how come there is no competition in organising the economy, what changed? I hear different stories here about when we had the last law on chambers of commerce. Someone mentions 1979, and I think the motionary mentioned it in 1993. Please read your explanation. Although transitional and final provisions say -- they do not mention the 1993 law, in their explanation on the other hand, that the province chambers worked until the entry into force of the new Republic Commercial Chamber Act ("Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia"), no. 20/93). That's the decision they kept working past the Constitution. What does that mean, what is now the difference between the chamber to today and the chamber from tomorrow, was it different to organize chambers? Did we still have a chamber for the Republic of Serbia, did we have circuit chambers, did we have regional chambers, what changed there? Whether the chambers are NGOs, as the promoter said - are not, issuing public documents. Their credentials have the character of public documents. Give me an NGO that issues public papers. They have public authority transferred by the government. Whether membership in chambers is mandatory - yes, although the proposer does not make it clear anywhere, but at least two basics of the bill itself are clear. First of all, in Article 9(1), the Proposer says: "Members of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia are all entities of Article 8 of this law, which have their headquarters, or are active in the territory of the Republic of Serbia". And Article 8, in particular, point 1, says members of the Chamber of Enterprises and other forms of organization, that they are through general associations and entrepreneurs, and farmers, or agricultural cooperatives, and other forms of organisation. So all those involved in economic activity in Serbia are members of the chamber. The second basis is Article 11(1), which states that the chamber exercises certain public powers entrusted to it by law. Alinea 6th says the chamber is issuing appropriate confirmations of the tenacity of its members. If one economic operator shows up with a request for participation in any business, he will not be able to participate without confirmation of the credit rating in that business, and the certificate of credit will not be obtained unless he is a member of the chamber. The membership in the chamber is mandatory. I can see that the new government is going around like a sword around a liver, sometimes it's said "like rain around Kragujevac," but we now have more rain than we need. You're all about the company, about the production, about the economy, and not at the core. And why we don't have hundreds of chambers of commerce in Serbia, why don't they join in the chambers of those to whom it suits, those who have some common interest. Why don't they arrange a chamber to do a certain job, take some goods out, import some goods? If politics has no more influence on the chambers, what does the management of the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia or Serbia look like now? Are the leaders of SPS and JUL or DOS? Is the shift done or not? If it's done, what's done? Because they came capable? Then the question is, how can you be quite capable of being private? How come they don't even care what happens to big social enterprises? That's what it is - that the neighbor dies a cow. The more large social enterprises fail, the more cheap labour on the market will have bigger problems. Small privates, as a timely new bank without the burden of old foreign savings, are growing and developing; more water and commercial chambers. I wouldn't just talk so easily about the members of the chamber representing large social enterprises. It's nice to talk to privates, small and medium-sized enterprises, but they don't live in a state. The state lives out of tens of thousands of workers. The state will fail if tens of thousands of workers are out of work if they don't get them a job. How it will provide them with a job, where these chambers of commerce under Articles 11 or 10 will not matter, represent their members abroad, organise a presentation of their members in the West. Are we going to be honest, what are we going to represent to the West as a product that he wants to buy from us, because it's quality and because it's cheap? I wouldn't brag about food much. First of all, we don't make food for ourselves, and secondly, our food is no longer recognized by a buyer in Western Europe. He eats completely different peppers, and tomatoes, he doesn't recognize ours. What we produce can't be produced in the amount that could bring profit. If you want a profit, the pepper can't smell. So we should represent ourselves in the markets that you've turned your back on: the east, Russia, China, India, South America, the Arab world. Well, does any of you ever mention these partners of ours, who have to sell us everything we need, and they can buy everything we make. You're telling us about chambers like they are in Germany and France. I agree, that's how you can talk about banks and politics and the military, but it's been built for centuries, without any major downfalls. Even when they had wars, after that they used the situation to develop even more. We have had one defensive war, after which we do not develop as you may have expected, and we have warned Serbian citizens that honey and milk will not wait for us if we kneel and crawl before them. What's the difference between socialist understanding of the chambers of commerce and this new one of yours? In what? What's the difference? They all have to be members of one chamber, so now they're going to choose the president of the chamber someone who belongs to the opposition. You're telling me stories. I'd love to see that. I will resign to the parliamentary post if the president of the chamber is from the opposition. Because it's such a good job that Vlajko Stojljkovic also did it. That guy couldn't make a mistake choosing a good job. Since the time has elapsed, when you mention the opposition's behaviour in the last 10 years, don't forget in those 10 years, the SRS has been an opposition party for 8 years, 8 years showing how the opposition party should act in this country. Maybe that's why we haven't had good election results, but that's what we're proud of. I especially warn those who are now in opposition for the first time: when they are worthy of voting with power, let them vote when it comes to national interests, let them vote when it comes to a good bill. Don't let them vote every time someone calls them on the phone, pulls them up and warns them about something they did in the early days. Don't vote for the proposals proposed by the government, when you're warned from this pay phone that there are some papers about you too. Go as ordered by the client program, even if it costs you personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13973	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13974	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I must first of all say that this law is not reformal, that it is not a law that should provide for a market business environment and a market economy, is not liberal, and this is a law that legalises the existing chamber network in which it dominates, above all, the territorial principle, not the border principle. This law calls for the principle of the European Union, only there and only where it suits it, but it is completely contrary to the principle that it is regulated in the countries of the European Union. In the new economic environment, which we need to create in order to allow for faster development and faster reforms and better investment, we need a law that will support market economy, decentralisation and liberalisation. Support that this law, with full understanding of the arguments, gets from the SPS just gives us the right. Since our political and economic programmes are completely opposite, as we as DSS are completely turned to the market, the liberal market above all, and as we are a party to the right center that advocates private capital above all, where private capital should be at the centre and the headquarters of market events, we understand that they support this law because this law is not so and because it does not support such trends and such flows. First of all, the bill releases existing branch and professional associations of Serbian entrepreneurs. There are those entities that have no legal personality status, which are associations of bakers, goldsmiths, associations of shoe manufacturers and other things. So, those who don't have legal status. There are about 270 thousand of these businesses. This law lets it out of its sight. It's something that's not good. The issue of public documents, the establishment of a database, as well as registration of members are fully centralised. That's what's not good. It says here that everything is concentrated in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. They say they will then transfer the powers to regional chambers of commerce further. Whether or not they're going to pass them on, I don't know, we want it regulated by law. We want the law to decentralize both the database and the issuing of documents that are in the jurisdiction of the chambers of commerce. In Italy, for example, regional chambers of commerce issue documents and so is the case in other countries. In one process of decentralisation of the state and democratisation of the state, if we want to regionalise and decentralised our country, we also have to decentralised economic instruments. This bill doesn't offer us that. We want a decentralised Chamber of Commerce, where regional chambers of commerce will be the bearers of business activities in the regions, because they know best the economy of these regions. It's one concept that needs to be established. The existing concept is bad, passive and not flexible enough, simply does not allow commercial chambers to have that function that they should have in every market-oriented society. What is particularly important to stress is that if this law remains regulated and this functioning is not regulated, decentralisation is not regulated which will depend on the will of the Management Board of the Chamber. We can get the board of directors of the chamber to be a powerful and isolated bureaucratized institution. This is what we must avoid, we must avoid institutions that will become a state in the state and that will have concentrated great power in their own hands, and will have no responsibility at all. What responsibility is foreseen here for what is done? Those responsibilities are simple. That's why we think this bill, getting and this segment is not good. This bill will not be in the interest of the entire economy, but in the interest of one group that will have power within the board of directors and within the Chamber of Commerce. This law cannot contribute to the reforms of the chamber system. The starting principle in organising a chamber system in a country in transition, which wants to provide an environment for a marketable, liberal economy, should be that we organise the system according to the reputation of the European Union countries. But really to be on the right principles of the European Union, not to take parts that suit us, but if we take one concept, let's take the whole concept. It is a concept that goes towards building a dynamic, flexible and efficient market structure, with a business entrepreneur as a central figure of economic life. The chambers must represent the interests of the economy in the adoption and implementation of the law. Otherwise, they must be an actual factor, both in the adoption of laws and in the regulation, as well as in the measure in the area of the economic system and economic policy. So they have to be an active factor and a participant in a business life, all that that chamber has never been before and what this law doesn't guarantee it will be. Also, chambers must have the right to priority of the initiative in proposing measures and laws of interest for the economy and for chamber members. It's a job that the chambers didn't work and will hardly work. The chambers must be consulted as well as other economic operators in the process of adopting laws governing the area of business. The chambers must keep a register of their members and that the registration information system will be decentralised at regional level. They must have public authority, to be partners, but official partners and to sign some collective agreements, other obligations and agreements in all areas of which economic life depends in one country. This law simply doesn't regulate all these areas. I am afraid this law will not ensure that the right reforms of this area as needed by Serbia at the moment. That's why our proposal, the DSS proposal, is if this law doesn't break or work out, because we have a desire for this law to be completed, that in Serbia we need to change the chamber system of organisation because this existing one is bad. This is a law that would only legalize and determine the existing system, and this shows the support of the Socialists to this law, which means that nothing important changes in the existing system of organisation. It is not good for Serbia and will not allow Serbia what it needs, and that is one market effort, a liberal, which will open the door to investment. So, if we keep the existing system, the boards, which will have one structure, which may become isolated, are not these boards of directors that will guarantee private people who will want to invest in Serbia to participate in creating a business life. That's why we think regionalisation is needed, and we had a Law yesterday on the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development, which has a tendency and a tendency to set up regional agencies. I think that this law should primarily decentralised the full powers of the Chamber of Commerce, not only within the organization, but also introduce border chambers of business. We'll talk about that later. So both border and territorial principles should be respected, because they can't be in the same chamber as those dealing with the industry, so shoemakers, and those dealing with the heavy industry, the ones from the hardware store. The territorial or border principle should be respected, the chamber should be reduced to certain areas and thus arranged this area. In the second exhibition, we will do a little bit more in the very way of organising territorial and border principles, but these are some general remarks that stand and I think we should do this law in this direction, especially as the ultimate vague provision of membership in the Chamber of Commerce is necessary. Article 9 first sentence states that the members referred to in Article 8 of this Act are all economic operators and members of the Chamber of Commerce, so it should be clarified whether this is mandatory or not. If said, all those members, all members of Article 8 of this Act, are members of the Chamber of Commerce and that implies one dose of obligation. If all members are said to be or are members of a voluntary base, then that means it is not mandatory. So these provisions need to be clarified. We believe that the reform of this system and this law should be completed, and it should certainly be on the agenda, because unless we change the Law on Chambers of Commerce and regulate additionally this area, it is difficult for us to open the door to investments in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13975	Is anyone else answering for a word from the president of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. Minister Vlahovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13976	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Government of the Republic of Serbia supports the law, or the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce, because this law actually creates institutional conditions for the full definition of the chamber mechanism. It is true that the Law on Chambers of Commerce continues to include the organisation of chambers of commerce by regional principle and the Chamber of Commerce for the City of Belgrade, however, at the same time, it is possible for the general associations of individual branches, i.e. individual entrepreneurs from certain areas to realise their interests, i.e. defend their particular individual interests which differ from some other associations from some other major business organisations. It is particularly important that the court of honour is reactivated in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. The Court of Honor must, above all, take care of the conflict of interest, the basic business and ethical rules to be followed by members of the Chamber of Commerce. We therefore believe that, under this law, the chamber mechanism needed to fully define institutions can be fully rounded up in order to implement an effective transition economic policy. It is very important to say that Article 8, or Article 9, defines who is a member of the Chamber of Commerce. However, as you can conclude from the entire text yourself, there is no obligation of membership in the Chamber of Commerce. There is no obligation of membership in the Chamber of Commerce by defined operators, precisely because there are no sanctions unless they want to be members of the Chamber of Commerce. In other words, this law, respecting European legislation where membership in chambers of commerce is in the largest number of countries, necessarily, sought to give one text that would mean harmonisation with European Union regulations, but in doing so, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, the regional chambers of commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and the general association that will form within the Chambers of Commerce is also back on the market, because the market is the only possible judge to assess the efficiency of the work of these chambers. In other words, if the economic operator defined by Article 8 or Article 9 does not want to be a member of the Chamber of Commerce or becomes a member of the Chamber of Commerce, and is subsequently out of the Chamber of Commerce because he is dissatisfied with the work of the Chamber of Commerce, regional or general Republic of the Economy, he is not subject to any sanctions, in other words, to be associated with other economic operators in any other association. We consider that by defining the so-called. indirect obligations and direct responsibilities to Articles 8 and 9 that, on the one hand, it is possible for the chambers of commerce to restructure their efficiency and to respond in a better and more efficient way to the tasks put before them by Article 10 or Article 11. But, on the other hand, the possibility or sanctions for the Chamber of Commerce is defined so that members without any special sanctions can leave the Chamber of Commerce and join themselves in other associations. We believe that this way the Chamber of Commerce will work more efficiently, that it will be more efficient to represent the interests of employers, that it will represent more effectively the interests of individual industries through its general associations. In this way, we believe that the institutional Chamber of Commerce will truly represent one strong institution in the transition period of our country's economy, i.e. during the period of implementation of the government's effective transition policy. So much for the law. As for the pangs about what our economy is today, i.e. the tears we could see or hear about this speaker, I would just like to say: firstly, if we have already mentioned the flag case and the IMT case, it is necessary to know that the flag produced twice as much as it will produce this year; that the flag today has a total of 32,000 people in the whole group; that it is not true that 13,000 people were fired from the flag, and it is true that 9,000 people are in the flag group, in an organisational unit called the Employment and Education flag, and it is true that the gentlemen that subsidies are directed towards that group of people. It's true that no one's left on the street. It is true that voluntary workers have declared themselves and have chosen the option - severance, a total of about 3,000. It is true that the flag works today so that its revenues cover the costs, and it is true that after the statusal organizational transformation of the flag, we have actually enabled the beginning of the next significant phase called - financial restructuring and, finally, the merger with the strategic partner. It's not true that this government doesn't mean the flag. Unlike previous times, when the people and the workers of the flag were thrown in the eyes of the story that -- here's the "pezo" entering the flag, here's the Koreans just about to fight at the gate of the flag, we told the workers of the flag the truth. And that is -- that the path of restructuring is very long and very difficult. It is also true that it is a great success to repeat the level of industrial production from last year. Why gentlemen? Because there are no subsidies in the economy as there have been over the last ten years. There's no pensioner robbery, so they're six or seven months behind their pensions. There's no robbery of peasants, by paying them a price they can't even cover 30% of their costs in the production of wheat. No more robbing those who need to get social benefits. There's no one who's supposed to get social benefits, so their social benefits are 36 months late. No more, gentlemen, jezda and dafine, so you can rob this people. No more loans for economic rebirth, so you can rob the people again. No hyperinflation, no solidarity logs. So the conclusion is -- we don't rob people, the economy lives on its own, effectively channeling funds to achieve the same level of production. And that's why I'm telling you - it's a great success. Pensioners regularly receive their pensions. Social benefits are regular. The wheat was first paid for with money that doesn't smell like paint. My lords. I totally understand, since it's a market economy that you don't understand very much and since it's a strict budget policy that means - as much as we have, we spend as much. [[growls]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13977	I also ask the MPs and ministers to stick to the topic on the agenda. The topic of Kragujevac is open, and I hope that this exposure is out of the agenda and open and closed, and that we will never return to it again. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13978	The minister accuses us of not knowing what the market economy is. I accuse him of not knowing how to live in Serbia. Minister, I know you were in "Dilloyt and Ink," but this is completely different. This is life, Mr. Minister, so I'd like to ask you to go back to Kragujevac in front of the So building, or the Car Factory, where these 9,000 and some of the educational workers will welcome you with open arms. It's a market economy you've introduced in Serbia. There are 30,000 workers, and 3,400 are working on car manufacturing. Everything else is fog. It is "Pezo" who entered Serbia, but just as you brought him, without customs, without taxes, at dumping prices, flew into Serbia. What it costs him, to lose for the first time, but to finally close our car factory and our truck factory, Mr. Minister, who was doing excellent work until you became a minister and until the Democratic Christian Party of Serbia took care of the Kragujevac car factory. It's all gone wrong ever since. It's nice to talk about the past. It's easy for you. You weren't in that past. It didn't cost you anything. There are young MPs here, 22 or 23 years old, they've finished college, they belong to the opposition so far, they come out for a pay phone and they say, "You've ruined my last ten years of life, and he's a 23-year-old MP." That's how you ministers accuse previous authorities of ruining Serbia. Well, you've grown fat since that Serbia collapsed. You, Mr. Minister, have worked directly with that authority to destroy all the factories that have been destroyed. How many companies have you privatized? Don't tell us about it. Get someone out of there who didn't get involved in it at all. And those who earn, let them use a pay phone like I do. [[Sagar.]] My face is clean.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13979	The word is made by MP Miodrag Stamenkovic and then by Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13980	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we from New Serbia consider the Chamber of Commerce with its entire system of local institutions only a system that must have one single goal, which is economic development. I wouldn't comment much on exposés, but I have to look back. Someone said this was a good law, but with it we'd only have good law without economy. I would only remind you that so far we have had an economy that has been intensely destroyed without a chamber, because the chamber has been exclusively extended by the hand of the government that served to give only guidance on where another drop of blood could be drawn. Because that's the only information she gave. Another colleague said the state can't live on small businesses. I'm sorry, but this is also on the subject, there's only a few data needed -- that exactly the best businesses live on small businesses. Get the most developed systems. We had on the Committee talks with representatives of the region of Emilia Romanje. There are 62,000 companies that export 15 billion. Marks, 66% only has two employees. Only 1% of the company has over 50 employees. Thus, the richest region and city in Europe live on very small businesses. That's why, when we talk about chambers of commerce and this law, we support it, but only as a framework that must serve economic development without a lot of administration. Why? Our economy is just about to develop, the entrepreneurs are just about to wave. Let's not legislate now to build systems, republican, local, regional chambers, which will limit. You'll see that life will impose a completely different system than the one we're about to prescribe here. The creation of new companies, with their association, will bring about new systems that will be completely reorganized differently. That's why this system of chambers, which is given in this law, is now not too much to talk about. You don't need to be exhausted on that. Decentralization - absolutely yes. That's exactly what I'm saying. We now have some framework system, and the changes in it will come from below, when small entrepreneurs start organizing themselves into their professional associations, then they will form a different structure. One more thing that's crucial when it comes to this law, and that's an obligation. You may be surprised, we are a political party for democratic change, but when it comes to economics, we support the obligation of membership, and I will explain it. This is why: if the change in the structure of our business entities will be dominated by small enterprises, not even medium enterprises, but small businesses and family companies (which are enterprises with two, three, up to a maximum of nine employees), these are enterprises that cannot perform all the functions that are performed by large systems. I can't have marketing, I can't have market research, I can't have development, I can't even have basic bookkeeping jobs, I can't have market research, I can't have development, and I can't even have basic bookkeeping jobs, I can't have production. Local self-government, through the system, and one of the systems is a chamber of commerce, has to service maximum all functions that this small company cannot have with a small number of employees. That is why we support the obligation of membership, because this enables the company to market, to obtain all information from a professional organisation. Not to owe much, so we in New Serbia support this law. We believe that, when it comes to economics, there is little need to be administered, not to create rings that will be brakes, but to enable the development of the economy to affect the development of the chamber system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13981	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13982	Mr. Chairman, I have already told you once about this assembly speaker that it is a shame for every MP to speak in this room if there are not at least half of the MPs, so I would ask, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and of Article 82, to establish the quorum first and to continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13983	Please confirm the quorum. I'm taking a break from 10 minutes. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please let us determine if we have a quorum to continue the work. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, followed by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13985	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it is a communist-tytoistic law that, instead of putting order into business entities, will create a monopoly climate when it comes to contingents of important products and strategic raw materials, both import and export, and all of this for companies whose owners or directors are close to the ruling regime. So far, you have always resented it, for example, Mr. Mirko Marjanovic, and now you will be doing the same in your transparent democracy, most likely with Dusan Markovic, because by now there has been a monopoly since you were in power when it comes to components for livestock food. The question arises: why did this law not end up in at least one place properly, which is Kosovo and Metohija, so that only the province chamber that is not divided into regional, at least for Serb enclaves there is established by this law. This law gives the legislator the legality of the Hackerup Constitution, just as Vojislav Kostunica gave when he urged Serbs to go to the elections, although this assembly has made a unanimous decision not to recognise Hackerup's laws. So much for this minute of mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13986	The People's MP Branislav Ivkovic has the word, followed by MP Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13987	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, as an MP, that talking about this law is not easy at all, because if he speaks in superlatives and approves, he will immediately be scolded by those who will start thinking in such a situation that the law should not at all support him simply because he is supported by the Socialist Party of Serbia. Unlike the previous legislative project (and this is too big a word for what we adopted, that is, what you adopted with your majority, about the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency, where there was really no place to support this project on our part, because it was in the system, bowing, bowing, but that the train was going) which was not comprehensive, this legal project is stable. It is a project that, respecting the existing infrastructure, is definitely laying the legal basis for the functioning of the current infrastructure in Serbia's chamber system, meaning in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, regional chambers of commerce and the Belgrade Chamber of Commerce. It should be recalled that Serbia really did not do what the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Montenegro did. It did not pass a law on the Chamber of Commerce in time, and in fact it worked out Serbia's Chamber of Commerce under the 1976 law. It certainly falls within a group of unworked tasks of the old government of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly in the old congregation, but it is certain, since we are chosen to work here, we are thinking and working wisely towards our potential for the benefit of Serbian citizens, that a legal project that accepts the factual situation on the ground legally legalises this situation and creates a basis for further transformation in a positive direction. Therefore, consider this as a certain mild support, do not be bothered by it and realize that the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group is precisely because it considers that this legal project is necessary, that a significant improvement in relation to the 1976 law, that it respects, in fact, the situation that was in previous years, that the Chamber of Commerce has been working on the well-being of Serbia, creates a legal basis and creates conditions to continue to, in accordance with modern European standards, develop a chamber system of work in the Republic of Serbia. Since there were discussions here -- centralization, regionalization, and, as anyone catches a discussion, he sticks to it in superlatives, to say one thing: there can't be a system if there's no hierarchy and every system in the system theory must have its own hierarchy; he must have a top that decides; he must have its subsystems and degrees of freedom to decide each of his subsystems. So don't talk too much about regionalization, because regionalization can go to a lot of trouble. So there must be a certain central, a specific decision-making site, with the consent of regional parts or subsystems in one system that wants to be an organised system, which will prescribe the basic working conditions and operations of that system. And the second thing is that these conditions must be quite liberal and leave to regional organisations to develop according to their specificities, at the top of the prescribed conditions. There is the essence of one measure to be found by the Serbian Parliament, not only in this legal project, but in any legal project. Take, for example, the tasks of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. You passed the Small and Medium Enterprises Agency Act yesterday. That agency is a normal company, no capital, no nothing. Why not an economy that knows very well what products and services it lacks and what it needs to do better, through its Chamber of Commerce, as the law suggests, has engaged in citizenship, in this assembly, and, if you want, financially, to support the development of those business programs that Serbia needs to work cheaper, more efficiently and better, to be export-oriented. Secondly, take a relationship to the banking system, for example the Valjevo region. How does the economy of Valev and this region work without the Valjevska Banka today? Who's invited to talk about the state of the banking system if it's not an economy, if it's not businessmen? I've been found silent and released by the businessmen; from the mark course to the closing of banks that have supported them so far, that all of this is happening as they know it directly affects them, they know that their businesses can't function without financial support, they know very well what it means when a good bank, such as Valjevska Banka, is abolished. Not that 250 people are out of work, but the economy of the region, which had one place to deposit money and redistribute money in the region, has no space. That kind of space won't have much in it if a foreign bank comes in tomorrow to do the job. Therefore, the interest of the state, it is the interest of Serbian citizens to pass a law on chambers of commerce, to have one legal place, which already exists in practice, but now with a legal basis, to work even better; on which the businessmen will have a chance to express their views, to demonstrate what the practice in applying the legal project that we are bringing says, what are the consequences; and to initiate a single force, if you will and against the executive authority, to create a better business mile. That is the essence of that attitude that defined the parliamentary group to vote for this project.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13988	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13989	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS Parliament Club, as you've already heard, will not support the proposed law. It is unacceptable for us for the following reasons -- namely, it is overcentralisation and all powers are given to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. This does not take into account the existence of the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce and existing regional chambers in Serbia, as well as their powers and manner of organisation. This law is not reformal, it would only legalise an existing chamber network, dominated by the territorial principle of the organisation, and the border principle is completely neglected, which in other words means that it respects the existing situation inherited from the previous government, i.e. of the government whose dominant factor was the SPS, and therefore we are not surprised that the SPS parliamentary group supports this bill. The bill drops out of the sight of the existing border professional associations of Serbian entrepreneurs, which would thus remain outside the economic system. The issue of public documents and the establishment of a database, as well as registration of members, should primarily be the task of regional chambers and general associations at the level of municipalities, as the Serbian Chamber of Commerce will not be able to serve itself a huge number of economic operators and their needs. It therefore requires a much more flexible organisational structure, decentralisation, organisation and authority on the principles of local smoo administration. The chamber, organised in such a centralised way, will not be able to satisfy the second key function of the chamber system, to be a professional service in providing services for its members. There is a danger that the administrative board of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce does not represent the economy as a whole and its many members, but rather that it is a powerful, isolated and bureaucratic institution, away from the real interests of the economy, its diverse, diversified organisations and border structures. It is logical that much greater attention must be paid to the decentralised territorial and border structure of the economy and to form broad pyramids of membership and interest within the chamber system. This law, unfortunately, does not allow. The proposed law will not be in the interest of the overall economy, but in the interest of a powerful, isolated superstructure at the level of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which cannot be the goal of the reform. That's why we at the DSS think it's necessary to draft a new bill, and in case this bill doesn't go through today, here, we'll certainly make a better bill of law than this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13990	The word has a National MP, Dragisa Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13991	Dear ladies and gentlemen, when this people sees me going out for a pay phone for two days, they'll think I'm a radical. You don't look like one. So thank you for not looking like a radical. Here, after my presentation, you'll realize that even we from DOS aren't exactly who, when some law comes out here, we're talking about it superlativly. I'll say a few words, since I have an hour to discuss, to say what it is that I believe is not what I expected of that law in this law. First of all, it's an organization of chambers of commerce. I will now try to say briefly for those who don't know what kind of organization -- we have today the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, which is quite strong, strong by the structure of the people it has in it (I'm not saying that neither the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, nor the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, are very strong by its staffs, because they obviously couldn't change just so quickly their people), means we have the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, which is currently funded by the funds of this Serbia; we have the Chamber of Commerce of Commerce of Serbia, which is also funded by these funds; we have the Chamber of Commerce of Vojvodina, so the Chamber of Commerce of the City; what is intended to be the Chamber of Commerce of Kosovo; and regional chambers of Commerce. Unfortunately, co-operation between chambers today is not such that all work as one in general, so too much separation is that we can behave in such a small country. Let's say, one simple example -- we have a fair in Sofia. The fair is attended by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, Zaječar's Chamber of Commerce, Nis's Chamber of Commerce, all on a partial basis. Why -- because there's no deal here, we're exposed to expenses. So, there is not one regulated system, that it is known that the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia may go to the Fair in Munich, but the Fair in Sofia should be left to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, with the obligation that they present everything they saw, to everyone, via e-mail, to send such knowledge. The first thing I don't like, it's that separation. The amendment I've made, which I'll explain, is exactly what he's talking about. Unfortunately, I don't see in this kind of organization of the Chamber of Commerce how the Chamber of Commerce is going to get close to that little man, meaning to a small businessman and give him a real service? You know, I was one of those little ones yesterday, I'm not really big today, but today I'm in the system of government, so now, with my friends, like Mr. Vesenović, or Korać, or Nikolic, I can knock on the door and I can get all the information that interests me. Unfortunately, I haven't been involved in the fight against that system in ten years so that I could participate today and have the right information in the right place. It's my goal that every little businessman has the right information at the right time, so he can get big the next day. Then, the funding method -- it was proposed a way of funding, which was before that. I'm for a different way of funding, for funding that is mandatory. It is not a coincidence that in all these developed countries, companies are co-financed from a mandatory funding method, but it is for a different way of funding - to finance associations (if professional associations, or ordinary associations at the level of one city), and from the association funds to go, or a large part of the funds to go towards financing the chambers of commerce. Why am I saying that - because then we would get one living business system, where whoever's in a small town, like Pirot, the Great Plan, can immediately come into his own society and get the right information. These associations would be the services of these privates, these businessmen, and that society that is the largest, it will fail the president of the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, Serbia, etc. the next day. So, what's best for structure, business and work. So if I live in Belgrade, I can join an association that's in Nis. Why -- because it's quality. So, so far, it's been over the collection of public revenues, and that's what the minister just said -- not now it's not going to be, it's not going to be controlled, it's not going to be mandatory. Gentlemen, now lies what I fear, as a businessman -- yes, unfortunately, the chamber system in the coming years can die. So that's the way. I'm up for it to be mandatory, but to be organised differently. I would ask the government to pay attention and to participate next year in a reorganisation of chambers of commerce. I'd invite the DSS gentlemen here to consider it, and I'll finally say I'll vote for this law. This is why: not because I have this party loyalty to my party, but because this law is far better than the previous law. These chambers of commerce really need this kind of law. We need to get something that will really help us. Because, you know what, the government is creating miles for business. The chambers are associations, what drives that whole system. So, we have to enable that propulsion system to start. At the very end, I would like to respond a little bit to some of our MPs who have provided information about Serbia's economy itself and to call for an example. Last year, before our election activity, we were at the factory Trajal in Kruševec, and we're going to the director of production, Mr. Djelic and I, and I'm asking the director of production - I apologize for how much you lose on exports. He says, like, 20%. Djelic, all in shock, says why you're exporting. That's what, gentlemen, you used to push big systems into export, print money, fund them, and they were exporting. He can export at a loss. The one who's exporting with a loss is crazy. It's gone. So we've entered a stable economic system. Whoever wants to export, who has a chance of exporting -- here you go, gentlemen, to the market. You know, that reminds me of that double morale, when the communists came after the war, it was said that before the war there was nothing, and then the Germans came and they destroyed everything. So they say -- why don't you raise this economy -- they knock it down and bring it down to zero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13992	The word has a folk MP Branislav Blazic, followed by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13993	Ladies and gentlemen, with the sake of this law, some basic principles have been given that the desire was to form chambers of commerce that would be NGOs. They will in some ways be depolitical, will be a partner to the government in creating an economic environment or an economic strategy. It's a nice story, but in practice it's obviously not feasible. It is not feasible, first of all, because two basic principles are not respected, and these are the principle of decentralisation and the principle of decentralisation. We can't talk about decentralisation when we have a built-in core of centralization, which is an obligation on the one hand and a territorial principle of organization, on the other hand. Also, we can't talk about depoliticisation, when we realize that the organization of chambers of commerce will be conducted just as it has been so far. The government will re-emerge through its personnel commissions, party commissions, to set up people to run. So it's all the same. I get the impression the more you change things, the more they become the same or even worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13994	The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic, followed by MP Milutin Svetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13995	The Honorable Presidency, esteemed fellow MPs, tells you of this legislative proposal on chambers, who for years, through circumstances, according to the function he had, participated very actively in the work of the Regional Chamber of Commerce of Leskovac, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia; participated in the work of the Assembly of these bodies and chambers and the Committee on the Chemical Industry, and I have always been in the midst of the events and creation of the economy, to the extent that certain governments had an understanding of the problems of the economy. Dear colleagues, my Leskovcians know that, I was also a man who worked as secretary of the Committee on Chemical Industry and the Regional Chamber of Commerce in Leskovac in the professional service of the chamber. That's why I'm giving myself the right to really speak very highly of this bill. Before I go to that, let me just say -- what the DSS representatives said, respected businessmen of Mr. Michael and Shormaz, just shows that either Mr. Michael and Shormaz or their party really have no vision of the business or the chamber mechanism, but let it remain their problem, because it seems to me that there is time, they are young and will learn. What the minister mentioned as a newspaper in this law, which is the court of honor, that I am merely saying that for hundreds of years there has been a court of honor and unnumbered correspondence and countless decisions of the courts of honor in the daily press. Let me get back to the law now. If we start with the idea of a chamber and a first member, and you define the chambers of commerce, I must say that the creators of this bill had no understanding that the chamber was defined as an NGO, even though the president of the chamber mentioned it in his opening statement. In this regard, to define the chamber as an NGO, there were several proposals for regional chambers of commerce, and among other things, the Regional Chamber of Commerce from Leskovec submitted an argumentable, very well-founded proposal that the chamber was declared by an NGO. Why did the promoter, under the government's strong influence, give up such a decadent definition of chambers? It remains for us businessmen to seriously imagine ourselves, or this government cares more than anything about the chamber being under its strong influence and losing its independence, even though it is the basic principle of the chamber. The law on chambers, respected colleagues, has been in the process for nearly 11 years since the Serbian Constitution was adopted. The chambers have insisted on its adoption since the constitutional amendments, but the chamber mechanism has been fully operational since 1979. This legislative proposal, which is before us, has practically just arranged and written down what we already have in practice, and it is practically a legal proposal from 10 years ago. I think it's a good thing, it's a valuable provision of this law. Remember, respected fellow MPs and you esteemed citizens, that, as the chamber president said, the chamber system has been living at the premises of Serbia for 145 years, since the establishment of a trade committee in Belgrade was brought by Prince Aleksandar Karadjordjevic. So this legislative proposal, which is before us, I repeat, is practically how the chambers in Serbia have worked so far. That's why I don't understand from the reasoning of this law the part of how it's the first time we've ever made the law as it is in Europe. I think calling on it is completely unnecessary. So far, the chamber, fellow MPs, has been organised so that its members were companies and all those performing economic activity, banks, insurance companies, while craftsmen and small enterprises through general associations, as well as farmers through other forms of association, were members of the chamber. The essence of membership remained the same in this economic mile because we had a private sector and peasants always, even in Tito's time. With everything positive in this legislative proposal, I have to make some more remarks that could have been resolved by this proposal. In a good part of European countries, membership in chambers is very clearly defined as mandatory. This is defined in both Austrian and Italian chamber laws, and this proposal solves this in a special way through Articles 8 and 9. Article 8 defines membership, a member of the 9th regulation, by calling for Article 8, belonging to a particular chamber according to the territorial principle. The lack of this law, a respected colleague, is that in the simplest way, in the words of obligation, does not regulate membership in chambers. The second drawback of this proposal is that he did not have the courage to define public authorities of chambers, as regulated in many European countries, except as the concept states in Article 11. There have been a lot of proposals from the economy, from the chamber committees, as well as the chamber assembly, but the promoter has remained in connection with this, I repeat, deaf. To ask the question to all of us, and first of all to the legislator of the law, who knows better about patent law, the right to protect industrial property in general, from people in the chamber, and to present another dilemma that has long been trying to bring into the chamber activity of Serbia, which is present in many European countries. It's keeping company registers. The most logical thing is that this registry is kept in chambers for all its members, immediately after registration, and not in commercial courts as it is now regulated. If there's any understanding, it seems possible that, until the end of this debate, these things that I've been talking about through the amendments will be brought into the law. Dear fellow MPs, if we want an effective chamber that will participate responsibly in the creation of legislative proposals that determine Serbia's economic miles, start with taxes, customs rates of legislation, the creation of development and economic policy, then the most important thing is how the chamber corresponds with the government and its ministries. But, please, fellow MPs, the esteemed businessmen of my Jablani County, my comrades from the torture chamber, tell me how many times have this democratic authority and this government, or some of its ministries, at least asked for consultations on what is directly in the area that you know best, and how many times have you proposed to them the legal proposals. Very little or almost nothing. This is the essence of this law, fellow MPs -- for co-operation, no matter how it is regulated in Articles 4 to 7, it is necessary for the government to change its position completely towards chambers and really begin to believe that there are people in the chambers who know a lot. This government must believe, and thus behaves, that chambers are one of the most important market institutions. They can also love each other and they can't love each other, but they can't argue that, both with their being and in organizational forms, they work in the interest of the economy. And so far, the chamber has been, in the right sense, impartial, independent, and above all, professional. The government must have faith in the chamber system, on the basis of expertise, because only in the Serbian Chamber of Staff of 115 are more than 80 people with high expertise, and more than 800 Serbian businessmen are involved in the work of bodies and bodies, as the president said. And, before I conclude, let me express another disagreement that, by adopting this legislative proposal, we cannot change anything in this Serbia of ours when it comes to the overall chamber system. We are now editing relations in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which is physically located in the street of General Ždanov (now called Resavska), in Resavska Street in Belgrade, and of course in regional chambers of commerce, but we are not doing anything to arrange relations in that chamber of Serbia that is located in the Terraces, and it is called the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce. How long will this economy have on its neck and have the strength to practically maintain two Serbian chambers of commerce? And, quite finally, I think that this legislative proposal, in which (except for a little reason), was the least well-known DOS vengeful policy, is acceptable to the SPS parliamentary group and will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13996	The People's MP Milutin Svedovic has the word, followed by the National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13997	The Honorable Presidency, the People's Elections, the Honorable President, Mr. Ambassador from Leskovec said nicely that this chamber law only covers the state that has been going on, and that the chambers have been working for the past ten years. I'd like to say something about how the DSS is looking at the organization, that is, the organisational structure of the chambers of commerce. Chambers of Commerce in an organisational and functional sense should satisfy the territorial but also the border principle and the interesting service principle of the work of the chamber system. The optimal organisational structure would consist of five levels. It is an alliance of the business chambers of Yugoslavia, the republican branch office, the province's Chamber of Commerce, the regional joint chambers of commerce and general associations of private entrepreneurs at the level of municipalities. The Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce Alliance would cover the area of economic relations with abroad and the world's network of representations. At the level of the Republic, three branch chambers would be formed: an industrial and commercial chamber, a craft-enterprise chamber and a cooperative chamber. Within regional chambers, there would be a community of associations of industry and trade, community of general and other associations of private entrepreneurs and cooperative alliances. As far as the schedules and seats of regional private chambers are concerned, they are quite satisfactory in this bill. One last thing I would like to point out is that the activity of the chambers of commerce, or the activity of the chamber in one part, is intertwined with the work of the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises, and I wonder if it's accidental or deliberate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13998	The People's MP Marijan Rističević has the word, followed by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. Marian is not here, Veljkovic is not here. Then Stanko Kovacevic, then George Mamula. Did any of the MPs who typed, took the diary, stay in the O.R.? Mr. Mamula is here, and after him, Bozidar Vujic. Radojko Petric after Mr. Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u13999	First of all, when it comes to the first member, it is said that the chambers of commerce are interesting, independent and based on a professional organisation that connects the common business interest of companies and entrepreneurs. If companies and entrepreneurs know what their business interest is, what do they need with chambers of commerce? Who knows better than an entrepreneur what his business interest is and who knows better than him the situation on the domestic market? I am saying this because the amendment statement said that the amendment of MP Vukosav Tomasevic was not acceptable because he suggested that membership in the chamber be voluntary. If the minister, well interpreting the relevant members of the law, said it implies that membership is voluntary, then I don't know why an amendment relating to membership as a voluntary has not been accepted. I really don't know what the solutions are like in Austria, Germany, Italy and Spain, but the amendment that membership in the chamber should have been accepted voluntarily. On the other hand, when it comes to the activity of the chamber, in Article 10, I see that there are intertwined actions here and there with certain parts of the Agency's activities for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, so there are duplications of activity, including management, then business integration, establishing common interests, etc. In addition, it is unclear what will happen if the Chamber of Commerce does not provide enough information. If it is said here that it provides organized and professional assistance, what if it does not provide professional and organised assistance? Or if he does not examine the issues relating to the commercial branches represented in the chamber? Or, if there is no improvement in establishing economic co-operation with abroad? Or is the introduction not appropriate abroad? Or, if there is no real, timely and quality information? What's the responsibility of the chamber? And the members actually show that membership is mandatory, so that those who are in the chamber, that they will have to support the chamber, which the chamber will not be on the budget of the state, is no consolation unless the activity of the Chamber of Commerce is in accordance with the law, or if it does not comply with the law of the commitment. For example, launching an anti-dumping initiative, or providing assistance to its members regarding funding and lending. If the banks are good, what will the Chamber of Commerce do to help entrepreneurs finance. And, in particular, in Article 11, which refers to chambers giving confirmations of their members' bonity, what if the certificates are not valid? On the basis of which they will be given, if anyone interested in it can get information in a commercial court and register to see what is the situation in a particular company or to question a business partner with whom he co-operates with what his assets are in a bank account. So, I think the work here is quite detailedly elaborated, but no responsibility is provided for if the chamber fails to fulfil its obligations under Article 10. Now, these are some of the remarks, and that's why I think that this incomplete law, with solutions like this, should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14000	The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14001	Respected Presidency, honourable MPs, starting with the fact that chambers of commerce play a very important and almost irreplaceable role in the overall integration of businesses and other operators, it is good to consider today this proposal of the law on chambers of commerce. There is great importance to the chambers of commerce everywhere in the world. The existence of commercial chambers in Serbia dates back to nearly 150 years ago. Taking into account the transition or other changes made in the economy and society, adaptation and the chamber system in our country are necessary. The adaptation is seen in creating as good market institutions as possible, and in this respect also in chambers of commerce, which provide incentives for the development of economic operators, the construction of market and open economy. The proposal for this law is seen as being done by reputation in the way in which chambers of commerce are organised in the countries of the European Union. Although it should be pointed out that in the good part of the jobs proposed by this law were already covered by the current federal and republican laws on the chamber. It's not too much to remind ourselves of what the main tasks of the chambers are. Maybe there wasn't enough talk about it by now. The president of the Chamber of Commerce, MP Vesenovic, had access to other issues, probably couldn't cover all of this, so I'm going to try to say in the most basic terms what jobs they are and what chambers they should be doing. First of all, it is to provide professional assistance to its members in order to improve work, to develop faster and more coherent development, to improve technology and to integrate our economy into an international exchange, with the use of world experience; to develop a system of information on the economy in order to learn about innovation and new technological achievements in production, as well as in the areas of entrepreneurship and management; to develop and organise scientific and research work, to connect businesses with relevant scientific institutions, as well as to organise lectures, courses and seminars. Specific tasks of the chamber shall be examined in the initiation of the adoption and mandatory examination of drafts and proposals of laws and other regulations which are of interest to the economy. Folding chambers bring the wanks, i.e. the collection of business practices which have been accepted by long practice as sources of law. Normally, they do chambers and other jobs that are of interest to the economy. If the chamber's contribution to economic policy is now being observed in Serbia this year, it can be seen that the chambers have remained on the sidelines. It is not only about creating a short-term but also long-term economic policy, creating a market environment and regulating economic space. Where have the chambers of commerce heard about this year's implementation of tax reform on the privatisation of businesses and others? It is obvious that the current government has bypassed the chambers of commerce, at least when adopting these laws and other regulations in the area of the economic system and development policy. Certainly, chambers bear their share of responsibility for why they did not engage more actively and impose on the government and this assembly when it comes to the creation of a total long-term current economic policy. The current government must respect the fact that over-centralisation and the country's authority to regulate economic flows will not provide for a more dynamic and successful development. Practice has long since shown that the state as a supervisor has not passed the exam anywhere. In terms of catastrophic economic results in the previous year, the decline in production, we listened from the minister that the drop in production is one by no means how much compared to last year. This decline in production is much higher if we take into account agricultural production, where it was born and where this percentage of the decline in production would have been more pronounced if production had not been increased in industrial enterprises processing agricultural products. Then we have an increase in prices, an increase in tax procedures, an increase in trade deficits, a decline in living standards and others, so it wasn't normal for the government with chambers of commerce to achieve full co-operation and seek a solution to halt such drastically unfavourable economic movements. Chambers of Commerce must be regarded as an irreplaceable association, as the main association of businessmen. It is really necessary for the government to work more closely with this institution in the future. Chambers of Commerce must be actively involved in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and co-operation with the Republic of the Development Fund. There were a lot more words about this yesterday when we talked about the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises. This bill also has its own high-quality newspapers. For example, it leaves the possibility of the internal organisation of the chamber system being decided by the businessmen themselves. There is no more legal provision for enterprises, except for these small entrepreneurs, to join in general and border associations. Chambers of Commerce will regulate their statutes the forms of work and border integration of enterprises. This border integration of industry, agriculture, trade, traffic, finance, tourism, etc. will take place through committees, councils, groups and sections. Normally, there are other ways to join together, related to certain activities in the economy. In public, there is a dilemma whether companies are necessarily members of chambers of commerce and that they pay membership fees for it or that they become members and pay membership fees on the basis of volunteering. There are both variations in the world. For example, in Germany, Austria, Spain, Sweden, membership is mandatory, as is the payment of contributions, fees, taxes and other types of income from which commercial chambers are financed. Taking into account the current situation of the economy and the necessity of its dynamics, I believe that a proposal for mandatory membership and payment of membership should be accepted. It is certainly necessary to analyse this favourable position on the obligation of membership and payment of membership in the foreseeable future and, accordingly, to implement the amendment of the law. In the future, businesses should be properly motivated to make their interests more relevant through membership in chambers of commerce. Finally, to point out, as has been said so far, that the SPS MPs support the adoption of this law, normally, with certain additions, but the essence to remain as set out in the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14002	The word has a National MP, Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14003	It is clear that I have now come out to talk about the bill as an MP, as a member of the Committee on Industry and a participant in the creation of this legislative project. It is a very interesting thing when MPs of DOS and SPS find themselves on the same side of support for a legal project. This can mean only one thing - that SPS MPs can be correct and sound about supporting a legal project. But here we have heard from a number of colleagues also remarks, a species that the law sanctions only some existing state, in fact the old state of things in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. It is also said that the law does not provide opportunities for an interesting organisation within the chambers of commerce, as well as that association is mandatory, including membership, because Article 21 really says that the control of membership fees will be carried out after the process of collecting public revenues. Maybe it's not a good idea that it's so infused, even though it can essentially come down to the same thing. It is logical then to say that this law really does not sanction the situation as it has been in the Chamber of Commerce so far, because to sanction it, then there would be no need to change the previous law, since the Chamber of Commerce in the previous assembly and in the previous leadership practically reflected the situation of things under the previous law and the state of things of the direct policy transmitter established by the Government. However, in this new bill, steps are indeed made to give a completely new role to the Chamber of Commerce. If anyone says that this bill provides for the so-called law again. territorial organization, so there's really nothing wrong with that. In the very process of harmonising this legal project, we have had the demands of a large number of regional chambers that their participation and their organisation must also be envisaged by this legislative project. Also, this law provides opportunities for an interesting or border organisation, and someone said that it does not provide an option, because within the Chamber of Commerce, interested groups of businessmen or certain branches of the economy can be organised, it is absolutely possible by such a project, as is given here. We have today, if I am not mistaken, in the Serbian Parliament representatives and the regional chamber of Bavaria, who is a guest of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, besides representatives of the government, etc. So, when we came up with a legal project like this, we made sure that it was in line with the usual way of economic and chamber organisation in the countries of Europe. We were just taking an example of Italy, Germany and other countries. We also had guests from Germany in our Committee on Industry and other committees, so we really used the experience from Europe. Something that has been given here as an objection to this law, and on which the debaters were right, it is about what is now happening to the status of the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce, and someone quite justifiably said -- as Serbian citizens do not have enough power to support two governments, because Serbian citizens are state-owned by the Federal Government, Serbian citizens are also supporting the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the entire apparatus, nor is Serbia's economy able to support two chamber systems, or an ornate with the same goal. Immediately after the adoption of this law, in my view, no matter what happens to the Republic of Montenegro, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, or the businessmen associated with it, must ask the question of the status of the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce and the degree of influence of Serbia's economy on politics run by the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce. Something that will be particularly important, and I am very glad that it was pointed out by one SPS MP, Serbia's Chamber of Commerce in the future must be a factor in linking businesses from Serbia and businesses and business associations from abroad. In this regard, I believe that this legal project will also provide the opportunity for the new performance of the business and business chamber of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14004	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14005	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the minister was here for a short time, the man said, and then he left. He's probably got other things to do. It's consulting. However, the company is near the National Assembly. But I guess they'll honor us with their presence later. It is interesting that this is another draft law not involving the Serbian government, but a group of MPs. Let's say in one of the important laws, which should be resolved in the best, i.e. adequate way, just as the Government of the Republic of Serbia would like. However, it is obvious that the government of the Republic of Serbia has much more to do. Don't disturb them, now the Policy is on the agenda and the Voice of the Public. Don't, let people finish the job. What is our objection, is that, although the proponent as well as all other laws is calling for the alleged fact that it is all reformal, democratic, that it will bring significant changes into our economy, it seems that almost nothing significant has happened or will not happen. In fact, a chamber network is still legalized, which has a territorial principle of organisation, and how the border principle of organization is ignored. What's the problem for us in the SRS is the obligation of membership in chambers, and the problem is that no one answered what the situation was after the October coup, what it was done, how it was done, what the effects of such work and action were and what it should be done. Also, we believe that the border associations of Serbian entrepreneurs, the Union of Serbian bakers and many others have been omitted, especially when it comes to the fact that there are close to 300,000 businesses in Serbia, i.e. actions that do not have legal personality status. So that's what we resent. But more importantly, I would like to discuss in this assembly what we have been giving to the National Assembly, above all about the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, about why I cannot congratulate you on the victory of Ibrahim Rugova, because I am sad and unhappy, and you have only legalized it and given it legitimacy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14006	The People's Messenger, Vukosav Tomašević, has the word, and the next is the Messenger of the people, Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14007	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what my colleagues from the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group have already said, I will try to add a few more arguments, which is why our position is like this and why we cannot support the proposed law like this. The key and essential question is whether this law makes something new in relation to the existing law in this area, or whether we can call this law a reform law, and I think that we agree that the basic task of this law calls upon the National Assembly to pass reform laws and improve legislation, and thus the overall life in this country. If we look at now the applicable 1979 Chamber of Commerce Act, here it is, and compare it with the bill that we're being offered here today, we'll see that there's no fundamental difference. This bill has been cleared from self-government terminology and termology of the agreed economy, which was written by the 1979 Law, but nothing offers us a fundamentally new one, except for a different dictionary. Therefore, by my deep conviction this law is not only not reformative, this law is in some way retrograde, because it retains the existing state or thing is returning backwards. Now the question is why it's like that, or to whom it suits to keep it the way it is. To answer that question, to ask ourselves what they were doing and whose interests have so far been represented by chambers of commerce and what they will do, whose interests will be represented by the Chamber of Commerce and the chambers of commerce which are proposed by the new law, which I am convinced, there is no fundamental difference. The largest number of economic operators in this country has not had any impact on the work of chambers, nor have the chambers of commerce been articulated in any way and expressed their interests. Chambers of Commerce such as these express the interests of narrow groups, i.e. certain economic lobbies. That's where they can regulate their interest. Hundreds, thousands and tens of thousands of small businesses, those owners of small businesses, medium-sized enterprises, shops, which should represent the future of the country's economy, see no interest in the chambers. Go from here to Slavia or Calemegdan, really in order all the shops, cafes, ask people if they need a chamber. If one says yes, I take back everything I said. The second thing, to be clear, is that there's a huge administration in the chambers, a huge civil apparatus, and there's hundreds and thousands of people living well. Based on what? On the basis of mandatory membership and the collection of membership fees from all those obliged by the Law to be members of the Chamber, who do not see their own interest there. Užice Chamber, salary for September of this year, average salary of 22 employees -- 16 thousand dinars, that's twice the average in the region. President Commora's salary is 24,000 dinars - gentlemen higher than your parliamentary salary. There's, as I see it, the interest to keep this state of mind and to keep this condition. I think that for this reason, as well as for all the reasons that my party's colleagues have spoken of, from the Democratic Party of Serbia, we cannot and should not accept this and this bill. When it comes to talking about amendments, because I have submitted an amendment that regulates membership in a different way than proposed by the legislator, then I will say something more concrete about why membership in the Chamber should not be mandatory but voluntary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14008	The word has a People's MP, Miomir Ilic, and the next is National MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14009	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, MPs who are in the O.R. (and those who are not in the O.R. are not very interested), the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce is a fundamental law that regulates life-interest issues for our social community and for our economic flows. I am speaking to you who are present here, as well as to the citizens of Serbia, to hear why the Socialist Party is for the adoption of this law, and to see how this parliament works when there is no quorum most of it due to the lack of MPs from the leading party, so that in the next elections, it will assess who it will give confidence to. The bill was given by a group of MPs, mostly by businessmen, experienced businessmen who assessed that this legal solution was the basis for the regulation of broken economic flows in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, in the premises of the Republic of Serbia and in the relations the economy had with the European market. For this reason, I support the adoption of this legislative solution, because a model of the European continental type of planning of chambers of commerce in Europe, that is, in the European Union. In order to explain this proposal, which was given by the promoter, I believe I have two legitimate reasons. In the past decade, primarily by blocking the same European community, means economic blockade, then NATO by aggression and by war storm at the premises of the former Yugoslav republics, torn co-economy flows, which were once ruled and for which there were certain legal solutions regarding the economy, i.e. chambers of commerce. That is one of the basic reasons why the proposer proposes to pass a law that would restore these broken flows. The second reason is also justified, and it refers to the fact that the Chamber of Commerce is an association that connects all economic operators, small, medium, large enterprises, private enterprises, agricultural cooperatives and other entities that can connect to the Association of Businessmen in the form of a Chamber of Commerce, and that it is necessary to restore the reputation of the Chamber of Commerce and the impact on the Chamber of Commerce, the development of the business system. Returning the reputation of the Chamber of Commerce is important for the reason that first of all, the chamber is not just an association to which the good part relies, where the businessmen gather to tell the story, to complain to each other, and simply to be a crying room to which no one pays attention. For this reason, this bill provides for a stronger impact of the chamber on the adoption of certain initiatives, proposals, draft laws, giving an opinion on essential entities, above all on the proposing that this assembly should adopt certain legal solutions, which are the laws that need to regulate the issue of economic flows. For this reason, the chamber should be more involved in the economic system, in the adoption of legislative regulations, and for this reason I have seen that here the promoter predicted a stronger impact of the chamber system on the adoption and making a proposal for laws concerning the economy. If all of this could be accelerated, the relationship between the Chamber of Commerce and the Government, as one executive body of the legislative authority, must be established in certain relations. It is a chamber of NGOs, but the relationship between the chamber and the government must be present, because without it there is certainly no possibility of it being united. As our government adopts and makes proposals for laws that are not so important to life right now, for economic flows, surely cannot be regulated completely. Among other things, I'm going to say what objections I think should be introduced into this law, in the subsequent modifications to this legal solution (which should suffer certain modes), when the economic flows return, into the frameworks they once were, in order to agree upon the adoption of this law. I believe there is dualism in this legal solution with the law we passed yesterday. The law adopted yesterday on the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises and Management, which has the Agency, fully corresponds to Article 10 of this Act. I believe that the Chamber of Commerce, which has such experience in the Republic of Serbia, with 144 years of existence, with its institutions, its associates and its expert team, can fully cover this agency that was formed yesterday, which, according to us socialists, is immaterial. As for the objections I could say, regarding the decision-making of these decisions on courts, the court of honor was in any case necessary before, but it should be applied more. There's a new institute here, in Article 32. The draft law, which is to establish a permanent elected court, where economic operators can, in the framework of their contracts, give jurisdiction to a permanent elected court. But such a court does not exist in the Law of Court Order. This should be regulated by the matter we brought in a month ago, because we brought in the judicial authorities and functions of certain courts, so in this matter, instead of a commercial court, there is a trade court. However, there is no authority of this court, how this court will act and how this court will work, despite the fact that the jurisdiction of this permanent elected court is established. For that reason, in any case, the proposer should complete this solution. As a businessman, who participates in the framework of the social sector, I believe that the bill is good, that he will surely suffer certain changes, ahead of the SPS and the economy, which I represent for almost 25 or 26 years, I believe that the bill is good and should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14010	He has the word Mr. Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14011	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I like to speak in front of a small but interested group of MPs. The quorum seems to be at the cashier's today, but that doesn't matter. When I heard who created and who participated in the creation of this law, it was clear to me that I didn't even open it. Checked communist personnel, (mainly from SK, JUL and related parties), so I expected, and my expectations came true, that nothing had changed in relation to the old law, except for the obligation, which was not so strictly indicated in that law. The failed Yugoslav economy will be financed by a massive, absolutely unnecessary apparatus, which otherwise serves to capture failed politicians and failed directors in the chambers of the Chamber of Commerce abroad. A completely outdone form of economic organization, at the time of the Internet, is not going to advise me to do what, when I have everything on one simple touch of the taster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14012	He has the word National MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14013	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, if the state plays a major and fundamental role in the creation of a market environment, if this role is seen in the regulation and regulation of economic space, and if the state has a valid role, through the Government, then it was expected that a package of system laws, which would be regulated by an important area, called the revitalisation and reprogramming of the economic system, would be proposed before the proposal for a law on chambers of Members and this assembly. And, of course, under these system laws, there should be something about the future development strategy of the economic system, with respect to all relevant factors, such as market movements, such as environments and such as future development perspectives, possible integrations, etc. Unfortunately, we did not receive such a document, perhaps because the Government, by passing the Law on Privatisation, began to reflect on the logic of that famous anecdote about King Alexander and Minister Lazar Pachu. In fact, when they came back from abroad, where they got credit, Lazar was running all the way through, Alexander asked Laza, "What is it, what is it, that you're so dissatisfied and he said, "Your Majesty, I'm thinking about how we're gonna get that loan back?" The king says, "What have you got to think about, let those who gave it to us, why are you humming?" Translated to this situation, the government passed the Privatisation Act, decided to sell everything that could be sold by that law, and then let whoever bought it roar. In doing so, of course, when something is sold, the government will decide what will be sold, the government will decide how to sell, tender or auction, once again, the government, to whom it will be sold, will decide, and that will be decided by the government. Well, let's keep that guy out there, then. As a counterproposal for all of this I am talking about, Minister Vlahovic (I hope someone will tell him), which is logical, he took it to defend the company he's working with, and he took it to defend the government and to me it makes sense. But when the minister does, he must use the argument to do so, he must as a minister have a manner to explain it, not to find the culprits in any previous system or in another. For one simple reason. I say, every minister, even so, must have manners, and in manner something called humanity, and I will remind you, Marko Miljanov has defined that it is courage to defend himself from others, and humanity to defend others from itself. That's what the minister must have. Now that it is gone and there is no law, then remember a group of messengers, and he says, "Let us propose a law." I suppose for two basic reasons: the first reason is that now in the Republic of Serbia the chambers of commerce are organised under three laws (this is the Republic's Law on Association in Chambers of Commerce from 1979, which applies to part of the Republic of Serbia without autonomous provinces and these laws that regulated it in the Autonomous province) and, second, the second reason that MPs came to the idea that they would do so is - let us, while we can still pass such a law that will represent all interests, and not when all is sold that we are passing a law that will respect the interests of certain major or significant lobbies. From here I think it was a good opportunity to bring this along, and we, as it is said, support the law, just maybe a few clarifications I'd like to give about the arguments that we've been given, and to pass this law. In fact, very often, I would say, without any measure, using adjective - democratic. For example, the aim of the adoption of laws on chambers of commerce is to be based on democratic changes... etc. You know, too often and long use of any term threatens to banalize it. I'm not alluding to what Goebbels was saying, that a lot of times a repeated lie sounds like the truth, but it's going to go off. We put adjectives everywhere - democratic, as simple as in that euphoria when the language was Serbian, when Serbian beans were ordered in the pub. Well, don't do that, instead of rhetoric, instead of a bunch of words, etc. Give us one piece, which will convince us that this is so, an act that will be quantified, reasoned, explained. I'd like to draw attention to one more thing, to use the term in the explanation -- the most optimistic model. Gentlemen, there is no most optimistic model. There's an optimal model. The word - optimal means that prefix - is the largest already included, that it is the most favourable solution, that it is the most compromise solution, but most optimally it does not exist. There is optimal or extremely best or worst. I'm saying this because of the integrity of this assembly, and I'm saying that you, too, would have to take care of it. Finally, I think that it must be found in the explanation, why this law suits us the most. I trust the promoter, I've read and I know, but I don't want to explain it. So we need to know what are the characteristics of this law that defines that chamber and these conditions, etc., and then we need to say: it's there, and we want it to be something else or something, so it suits us the most. So this is how when we say it in an explanation -- this is why we got a law that fits these laws, and we don't know what's relevant to us, we only gave the answer to half the questions. I hope that's for the public's sake. As far as we're concerned, we welcome the idea of passing this law and we will vote for its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14014	Thank you very much. The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word, followed by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14015	Before I start, I don't want to talk here in an empty room, see if we have a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14016	I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I realize we don't have a quorum and I'm taking a break until 15.00 hours. [[After break - 15.35.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to establish a quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We are continuing to discuss the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce. The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, and after it is a national envoy, Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14018	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 1 intertwines the Agency's intelligence on small and medium-sized enterprises with the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce. Mr. Vesenovic told the speaker that there are no more political businesses and political chambers, and it turns out that outsiders are great businessmen and directors, and very quickly they forgot October 5th, when in the chairs of many public enterprises, they occupied the individuals who deserved those places because they were many throats and because they were in the Federal Assembly. These same frames have previously been removed from the company as a poor fit and suspicious moral qualities. Now they are united and organized, and their act of victory wants to crown by creating a chamber of commerce because they want to hide their past and their work. In Article 2, you want chambers based in Belgrade for the territory of the Republic of Serbia to be established. They also want to establish commercial chambers for Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija. I don't know which one of you is going to go to Kosovo and Metohija, establish this Chamber of Commerce and provide certain services under this proposed law. Minister Vlahovic again wants to build a market and open an economy with respect to the developed economies of the European Union, this proposal shows how much Mr. Vlahovic has been educated in the West, so I suggest he move there. As far as the village is concerned, he lied. The wheat was taken because they wanted to take it, not 30 pfenig. Nothing helped the village, no seed wheat for sowing, no regressed oil, and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14019	Rac has a National MP, Jovan Todorovic, and after him is a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic. I just want to remind you that the SPS parliamentary group has eight minutes left, there are two other registered SPS speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an MP for the SPS, I have defined myself and I will vote for the adoption of this law on chambers of commerce. My reasons are the following - firstly, because the chamber organisation of entrepreneurs and businesses in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or in the areas of Serbia, is almost one and a half centuries long and because I think it is necessary to start what is currently standing for us, therefore, economy. Secondly, both in our environment and in Europe, the economy has improved on chamber principles. There is, however, something different about this proposal that we are offered today, because as we know about the experiences of many countries, such as France, Germany, Italy, we have different chambers of commerce, such as industrial, commercial or commercial, and in some countries that are in transition like us, such as the Czech Republic and Hungary, crafts and agrarian chambers have been observed. For these reasons, I felt that perhaps this text of the law could have been a little more flexible than who could be a member of the chamber. From there, I would argue that if not today, then in the subsequent completion of this law, I would also consider that if we do not have the willingness to form an agrarian chamber, we would allow all individual agricultural producers, who may not be registered as entrepreneurs, to become members of the chamber. However, this law provides for collectively becoming a member of the Chamber of Commerce through agricultural cooperatives and cooperative alliances, but given the fact that the largest number of farmers are not engaged in agricultural cooperatives, so as such, he is not even a collective member of the Association, then, in a way, deny them the possibility of being members of the Chamber. The third and special reason that defines me to support this law, with one sincere belief that the Government will really do as it says in this law, which is that the future chamber will be able to participate primarily in the preparation of essential laws for economy and life, as well as to give an opinion on the drafts and proposals of individual laws dealing with economic problems. It is of particular importance to me that businessmen will be able to follow phenomena within the chambers of commerce in the economic life of the Republic of Serbia and, in agreement, provide appropriate guidance, proposals and opinions to the Government. This with the sincere belief that it will not happen to us that in this House, we are considering what are and how important to economic life, and that we do not have or have not received any opinion from the Chamber of Commerce. I could name a few laws -- and the Law on Privatisation, the laws on tax giving of economic operators, the law on extra profit, if you will -- and finally all those laws we've been considering in this House haven't passed that natural procedure through the chambers of commerce. I would particularly suggest that in the statutes of chambers of commerce, among other things, the fate of this country for a long time, is installed in the works of the chamber and a provision that would provide for special attention to the export-oriented economy. It could be said that out of this shift of activity that we have, I would especially stress it, because I am confident that we will have to for a long time and how to encourage export production, that this country could at all become involved in the international exchange of work and that we could achieve effects that would be far more positive than we have in the last year. I remind you, fellow MPs, that only in the first nine months of this year, we had a deficit in foreign trade, which would say a foreign currency deficit of over two billion and six million dollars; that this trade deficit increased compared to the time we had sanctions of over 35%, which in itself says that we had no incentive policy when it came to the launch of production, and those intended for export. There are many such examples throughout Serbia. One of the best, one of the biggest exporters in the last decades, is the Passional Viskoza, which in the current conditions is ready to export 30 to 40 million marks annually and to achieve a foreign exchange. Unfortunately, gentlemen, the government has not yet done anything concrete to launch the Viskoza, we have the fact that the Viskoza since January of the month de facto has not worked at all, and workers have not received a single salary in the first ten months of 2001. Milka tells me - the topic, and I say that everything I say about chambers of commerce and especially about export economy is a topic. The truth is, the government approved the Viskozi million and 200,000 marks from the Development Fund to launch production. I must tell you, fellow MPs, that contrary to that, it is under the Law of So-called. The extra-profit "Viscosis" has become a taxpayer for extra profit based on the use of primary emissions of two million and five hundred thousand marks. Then we ask ourselves what it means when on one side we encourage with a million and two hundred thousand, and on the other side we want to drain dry dreno and take two and a half million marks from that Viskoza. I'm sure these things are being considered in chambers so that it couldn't happen. Just as it could not have happened, if the Chamber or the Financial Committee had considered the issue, that there would have been bankruptcy of the bank and of many other banks that went bankrupt because the Accounting Act had been amended, by which all those banks that had a claim from abroad were forced to write them off, thus entering the loss, bankruptcy and liquidation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14021	The word has a folk MP, Zlatan Jovanovic, and the next is Stevan Z. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14022	Ladies and gentlemen, we have already heard that this law does not bring anything new compared to what already existed as a solution, as far as business chambers in Serbia are concerned to date. It remains a fundamental problem here, the principle of membership obligation for all economic operators, which is the biggest practical problem in this proposal. Namely, since someone else knows what the interests of economic operators are, why not allow them to establish their own interests, to join and create their own associations according to their own interests. The second thing, it's the work of the chamber. If Article 10 of this proposal is carefully examined and compared to the member of the 7th Zekon adopted here yesterday, on the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency, it is seen that the actual competences, i.e. the activities of the chamber and the Agency, are exactly the same. On the third hand, there is the Ministry of Economy, which is also a large part of these responsibilities and actions. The question is, who, in which case and in what way will respond in accordance with these laws? Next question I'd ask here, it's a matter of financing the chambers of commerce. Funding remains, as it has been so far, through membership fees, and membership fees are mandatory for all entities that join in the chambers of commerce, and all must be joined in the chambers of commerce. Since there is now a court of honor and the so-called elected court, the needs of the chamber will be more objectively, and therefore membership will be significantly greater than that of the present court, which will burden the economic operators that are members of these chambers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14023	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14024	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about a law that is more or less correct. It shows that better laws come out of some other workshops than from expert-governments. This is because we have had the expert laws of four members to which we have received three amendments from the Government, and the fourth one has been referring to that since when the law applies; so that's some fact. I'm not saying that this is the best thing to write, but for those who work in the economy, this will be understandable, and those who don't work first have to work in the economy, and then they'll understand what agriculture means, and so on and the chambers. There were some nice stories being told here, the minister was talking about some robberies. It would be as if workers of the Beician cement factory had robbed that factory so well that now of the five largest world producers, four are competing in the tender. What's left of them, I don't know, if the workers robbed her so well, as the minister says, and so does the government. I've never been a worker there, and I've never been a government. Then, a colleague here said that even a last drop of blood no longer exists in the economy. What then, gentlemen, you're passing the Privatisation Act, which will be privatized and sold out if the last drop of blood from that dry drain is drained. It says there's something wrong with it. If some things hadn't been saved, you wouldn't have anything to sell to your friends, I won't say, "Sell," because selling is once a fair deal, and selling is something else. Only the government will participate in the sale because the tender sale is going so that tenders for Serbia's cement industry, meaning Kosjeric, for Popovac, for Beocinska cementar, are in progress long ago. The only thing missing is the tender commission, because they'll probably just end up collecting and subtracting, as an accountant, and that's what the government was supposed to elect three people, this firm is going to give the most important man and local self-government to its own man and round it all up. So this way, like some others, shows how much this is coming from an honest intention, and the rest is known, when it's not fair, what it looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14025	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14026	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, is ineffective and unable to pass serious system laws before the National Assembly, as you promised your voters, shows the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce proposed by MPs - members of the Committee on Industry, not everyone signed. Some today, and do not belong to the ruling nomenclature, have expressed their willingness to vote in favour of such a proposal for a law on chambers of commerce, and have pointed out precisely that this is the practical proposal of their party who did not live while they were in power in Serbia, and now this very little modified legislative project is being proposed by DOS MPs, and among other things by those who are actually authentic creators of the project. I have amendments to this bill and I will say more about the law itself by the members when the time comes, but now I want to say something that no one has mentioned today, and that is that the argument given is cynical, because the proposer said that the law is based on democratic changes, and because of the general public, I have to say that the president of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia is sitting ahead of us, a man who is by no means from a political party seeking democratic change, but with a kind of crack, that same political group entered the Chamber of Commerce, the flag, the Galenika. Therefore, it is really inappropriate for the gentleman, who speaks on behalf of the promoter, to talk to us about some democratic change in our society. On the very text of the law, Mr. President Komor, member of the political party and MP, will hear a little more later.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14027	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14028	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this law provides for agencies, and yesterday we had the opportunity to make sure that it was the formation of a number of agencies that need to carry out some economic activity and to speed up small and medium-sized enterprises. We heard from the minister yesterday that six million dollars was given to help and develop these agencies, and where luck, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that those six million dollars were directed to buy about 500 tractors. Since we are a agricultural and agri-stocking country, we could buy 60,000 sheep and thus make a greater contribution to the development of agriculture and livestock, than this money is going to be spent where there's no point and where it doesn't make any sense. I believe that the payment and payment of the membership fee under this law, which is also foreseen, is also inappropriate, to be done in this way, in accordance with the Public Revenue Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14029	The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have yet to see another non-reform law, a law that will not speed up faster production and will not lead us to those flows, as the DOS coalition in pre-election promises told Serbian citizens. This law limits the rights of certain economic operators, primarily those who were full of mouths in the DOS majority, which are mainly agricultural producers. So here they limit the rights of those economic operators, especially natural persons, who must join in the chambers of commerce by means of an indirect route. This means that they must join in agricultural cooperatives and other similar organisations, so that they can exercise rights, as other legal entities do. In this way, they are brought into an unequal position and therefore this law, among other things, as Serbian Radical Party MPs have said, will not speed up neither production nor, in the right sense, will be a democratic market, and liberalisation and everything else you have said. This is a completely unnatural law, like all the laws you've passed so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14031	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here are the two days that the Serbian Parliament has been dealing with some business that is not to be done. A very narrow circle of people yesterday voted the Law on the establishment of a Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency, and today we also have a group of people who are proposing a bill on chambers of commerce. There's only one situation where an ordinary businessman can't handle. Will they seek advice and help from the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development or will they join in the Chamber of Commerce and seek help and advice there? What is very drastic about this law is Article 9 which says that "Serb Chamber members are all the entities of Article 8 of this law that have a seat, or act in the territory of the Republic of Serbia". So one obligation for everyone to be members of the Chamber of Commerce. The second thing, which also stings, is this court of honor: "The Honor Court decides on good business practices, violations" of the single market and monopolistic actions on the market. "Will this court also condemn the government of the Republic of Serbia's monopoly after the establishment of this law? When I say monopoly, first of all I mean monopoly: oil, tobacco, import export licences, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14033	The People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski (not present) has the word. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14034	This is a law that is only technical and termologically adapted to these times, compared to the law that has been in force since 1979. But something that is indicative and related to the debate on this law, it is that after two or three of yesterday's appearances by Minister Vlahovic, who stressed that the financial inspection is in control of certain parliamentary groups, which were opposition by yesterday, praises this law, and are aware that this law is no better than that of 1979. Therefore, this is a clear indication of how and how individual parliamentary groups fall under the impression and under the pressure of individuals accept and what is contrary to their party and party, and in particular to personal definitions. Because what's new about this law? Nothing. Which one of the MPs here pointed out: only the terms have changed -- from self-government to a new democratic society. The best evidence is the management of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. They have entered the Chamber of Commerce through the crisis headquarters; this is an ideal opportunity for them to legalize it all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14035	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. He doesn't want a word. ) The word has a National MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The remaining time for the SRS parliamentary group is nine minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the legislator of this law is a group of businessmen, and as such, this law has been proposed today and considered to be good. What are the legal assumptions when the economy doesn't work? There are no people with minimum living conditions, and the law on chambers of commerce is supposed to be market-oriented. Where's the market today? He's not anywhere. The idea to pass this law is the wish of a group of people who see their entanglement in this law, because they believe that by passing this law they will find themselves a real job. The rapper point of this current law is the chamber system in Croatia and Slovenia. It's a miracle to compare these chambers in neighbouring countries to this law of ours. This law is technically well done, the concept is bad. The chambers didn't stop being the extension arm of the system, so it's the same system of work and previous and present chambers. The organization scheme hasn't changed in the old law, and neither has this one. It has been said that there is no obligation in the organisational sense, and the certificate of credit all entities must be members of the chamber. Everything Minister Vlahovic said was incorrect. There is no difference between socialist understanding of chambers of commerce and today's law on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14037	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14038	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the legislator of this law is reportedly a group of MPs, who signed as members of the Committee on Industry, which is actually Mr. Radoslav Veseinovic, president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, who is known to have come - through the Crisis Headquarters, with the help of Vladan Batic and his present-day Democratic Party. He knows the public very well that he was a member of JUL, DS and DSS, which means that man has a huge experience, so he will be able to really improve the work of the Chamber of Commerce. As for the minister, who unfortunately is not present and who said there is no obligation to join the chambers of commerce, probably by drawing it out of the reasoning of this law, that all entities who wish and find an interest in joining and forming a Chamber of Commerce are free to join in to achieve their goals and interests. "They're free," it's a term that defined him as interpreting the law so there's no obligation. He forgot about article 11, which contains the competences of the chamber - among other things, it performs certain public powers. It's the key to what the Chamber of Commerce is normally interested in. What are the meaning of these public powers - that they issue appropriate certificates of their members' credit rating; certificates, credentials, and other public documents. That's what the Chamber of Commerce needs, and that's what obligation means, because anyone who isn't a member of the Chamber of Commerce won't be able to get all that. As much as I could in these minutes and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14039	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14040	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill was supported by the government of the Republic of Serbia through its representative, Minister Vlahovic. It is quite enough that Serbian radicals do not vote for this law, because so far everything we have received as a proposal from the government has proved to be harmful and devastating to the citizens of Serbia. Minister Vlahovic, of course, unorthodoxly defended this law, not citing anything in favor of the law, but therefore said the previous ten years had been marked by robbery; thefts; poor work. I'm not going to give it back to him, so I'm going to ask him, since it's bread, because today it's meat, because it's electricity, if this government is so successful? In the opening part, in terms of the law on chambers of commerce, it is said that chambers of interest, independent and business - professional organisations of enterprises, entrepreneurs and other forms of organisation which carry out economic activity and which link the common business interest in a particular area. I would ask Mr. President of the Chamber of Commerce -- is this common business interest, as it is now said, not sure that it is true, you will answer the link between him and the Elektroprivred Serbia, that on behalf of its company, Galeb has concluded a contract on almost four million marks for certain products that its company produces, or deals with the turnover of these products. However, the Commor's task is to find his members certain jobs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we understand that, and we have explained that, which is why the MPs of the SRS will not vote for this bill. We are not like some other parliamentary groups that are fulfilling their narrow interests, interests of groups, or those who are blaspheming at the current government, and are themselves part of the system and part of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14041	The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce can exist in a phase of theory, and what role we will have in practice remains to see. The legislator argues that the democratic changes that have taken place have caused changes in the economy. I can agree with this finding. The changes consist of that few companies that have worked in the past, had such production, are now not working, and the economy itself is collapsed, almost destroyed. I'm not convinced that the chambers of commerce, as the promoter claims, are non-governmental organisations. There's not a single sphere of society where the government doesn't have control. Membership in chambers of commerce is voluntary, as you claim, and the bill states that members of the chamber are all entities, all businesses in Serbia's territory. What loses one who's not a member of the Chamber of Commerce? He's losing a lot, because he's not going to be morally political for DOS leadership, which will be headed by chambers of commerce. Certificates of Bonity are certificates of the regime's fidelity. What do the warm meetings of Minister Vlahovic with the workers look like in practice? I am still shaken by the picture showing frightened Minister Vlahovic, who is literally being saved from working hands. The lizard saves himself by throwing away a piece of his tail, and nature has given him a gift, and your only salvation is a special suit from which the sleeves easily fall off. Think about the state of business, the lives of workers, their fates. Since theory, workers don't live, they can't feed their children, they can't feed their family. Will the law on commercial chambers in a ruined economy enliven? What will be the fate of large businesses? How many thousands of workers will be fired and what the law on chambers of commerce means to them. How will the state survive with hundreds of thousands of socially endangered? There are several types of association, associations, as a product of DOS rule, and it seems to be a dominant association or association for the naked survival of workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14043	This was also the last registered MP for discussion. Are any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? DOS representative, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14044	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to be as brief as possible, because I appreciate your time and we've been working for a long time. I believe that the main objections raised in the criticism of this law of objections concerning the alleged absence of fundamental change are in the light of the 1979 legislative legislation and the subsequent observations concerning the character of the promoter. As far as these other objections are concerned, I don't consider it a DOS flaw or a sign of dysfunction of the Republic government. On the contrary, the more legislative initiatives in front of this parliament, it certainly contributes to the affirmation of Parliament itself, and they do not speak negatively of the Republic government as an executive body of government. We have discussed here legal initiatives, for example, the Socialist Party of Serbia or the Serbian Radical Party, and I do not see that DOS MPs, who have proposed a law on chambers of commerce, question the Republic government on the contrary. As far as the law itself is concerned, I think the most important issue in the chambers is monopoly and obligation. It is true that in the orderly European democracies that rest on the market economy, obligation follows the Chamber of Commerce, but I don't think at this point we can give a map of the blast to the Chamber of Commerce and thus commit all economic operators to that kind of membership that implies rights, but also obligations. We want the times ahead of us of the chambers of commerce to prove Serbia's Chamber of Commerce and justify its existence, because if it was possible so far, I hope that in the time ahead there will be no untouchable, nor will there be rights and laws that cannot be changed and corrected. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, given this legislative initiative, is changing its shape and changing its form. It is no longer a substitute for the employer and it is the most important change since 1979, when the last regulated area of the Chamber of Commerce was regulated by law. The Chamber of Commerce was practically a substitute for the employer and it took on that kind of role. Given the labour law and the role of employers and workers, it is very important to make that distinction in the status of the Chamber of Commerce in relation to all its characteristics at this point. Therefore, the Chamber of Commerce is no longer a substitute for the employer and thus improves the position of the employer, given that we are seeking market economy. It's the second question of monopoly. It is true that membership in the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia can be achieved by all economic operators precisely defined by this proposal, but you can also see very clearly by analysing this proposal that there are no sanctions for those economic operators who may decide to organise themselves in a different way. This is what is very important, essential change and a step towards existing legislation. That's why I think it's very important to support this bill. I believe that, as is the issue of the Small and Medium Enterprises Agency, we need to make as much a way away from politics and parties as possible on the matter of chambers of commerce. I think the issue of decentralisation, raised by the Democratic Party of Serbia, is a serious issue. The proposed amendments, unfortunately, cannot be exactly incorporated into the law by this system of respect for decentralisation, but you will see that the statute of the Chamber of Commerce is actually the way to complete decentralisation. The law lays down Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, regional chambers of commerce, the province's Chamber of Commerce and the city of Beogrd's Chamber of Commerce. It's for the first step more than enough. Then, all those who are interested in the status and membership of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce by their nature and character of business can establish through the statute the degree of decentralisation that is most functional and this is not an irrevocable anomaly of this law. Unfortunately, since there was no initiative through the amendments, we are not already in the form of the law to provide this necessary degree of decentralisation to which we are undoubtedly seeking. But there is no need to tie hands to those who will engage within the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and should not be deprived of their right to establish the level of decentralisation that is most concrete and efficient for them through their statutes. I think this is a good change, and I think that this change deserves support not only because this is an initiative of MPs, but also because this is a legislative regulation that, after almost 23 years, introduces change in this segment of our economic life, which is not small. I repeat, they are very serious and radical. These are changes in the status of the Chamber of Commerce, its role in the economic environment, and I think that's why this initiative should be supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14045	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14046	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will only put forward at the end of the debate in principle a few things why we in the Democratic Party of Serbia think this law is not reform law, that this law is not different from the law that was passed in 1979, except in terminology. This law will not bring about the necessary changes that are needed in Serbia at the moment, to regulate the market, to regulate the economic environment, to open the door to investment, especially foreign investment and private capital. We believe that this law, according to all that it has, will only establish and strengthen the existing system of the organization of chambers of commerce and thus indicate the ruthless support of the SAA to this bill. The support of the SPS to this bill is nothing more than an attempt to preserve its personnel in existing chambers of commerce, which is entirely justified from the position of their party and I will not be able to enter them at all. I am surprised primarily by the reasons why they would do this to me and why we would protect their way of organising, their personnel and their system of economic activity. We like the party that's on the other end, if you look at the distribution on the left and right, from the SPS, we have a different opinion. We want to try to favour private capital, to favour the organization of chambers of commerce that will be different from these, not only in the territorial but also in the border structure. What's a little bit controversial about exposing the Minister himself, which is whether we have an obligation or a volunteer to join the Chamber of Commerce. The law points us to the obligation of membership in the Chamber of Commerce, which precisely determines the position of Article 9 and the reasoning given to MP Vukosav Tomašević on his amendment to introduce voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce. The government has made membership mandatory and it is a fluid and tradition in some other countries. This is an explanation the government gave on the amendment to Vukosav Tomasevic, meaning membership should be mandatory. Today, Minister Vlahovic spoke of membership not necessarily, i.e. non-membering in the Chamber of Commerce has no effect. That means membership is mandatory, and if you don't want to join, then it's not. Here, it already shows the lack of this law itself, means that some of the provisions of this law do not produce their legal fact, i.e. that there are no sanctions. These are not the only provisions in this law for which non-compliance is not sanctioned, and therefore this law makes it bad. It simply makes it missing, unspeakable, with a lot of legal gaps, which in a bad way regulate this area. And the very remarks that came from those who will support this law, who say that this law is not complete and that it should be done in any case, say that this might not be the right time to pass the law, if in three or four months we're going to do it. To adopt the law to verify, legalize certain structures that were or are now in the chamber, that's something that's bad. We don't need to pass laws that will be referred to a certain group of people, but we need to pass laws that will regulate a particular area, a particular system. In the DSS, we propose, first of all, that this area be arranged fully in accordance with what is regulated in the EC, that it be commercial chambers with much higher powers and decentralised precisely by law. We should not leave decentralisation to the statutes and some other acts of the Chamber of Commerce, because we saw what decentralisation we had now when it was left to them. In this way, we can get a board of directors to decide on everything, an extremely strong body, which will decide on all those permits that the government will transfer to the chambers of commerce, whether they are import, export or other permits, whether they are various consents, whether they are participation in consaltins, management and other jobs. The powers that will be gained, which will be concentrated, centralized in a narrow circle of people, that's something that's not good and something we'll always be against. It is also surprising to support certain groups of people, especially regional parties, who advocate decentralisation, and will vote in favour of a law that provides just centralisation, which is contrary to their programme. But well, they probably have personal or party reasons to do so, although that's what surprises me and I don't think it's a quality solution in this law. In the DSS, we believe that the territorial and borderal division of the Chamber of Commerce is what is its jurisdiction. We have three border chambers, whether industrial, commercial, craft, enterprise and agricultural and cooperative chambers, which would later be divided. So, a territorial and border-organized chamber, which will be much better able to meet existing circumstances and existing opportunities. We have more than one reason not to support this law because it is lacking, because it does not offer the necessary decentralisation and because this is not a law that will speed up reforms in Serbia, but rather a cementing existing state, cementing existing personnel in the Chamber of Commerce, which have shown that they do not know that they are working, that the chambers have become themselves, and will cement something that is not in any case the way to reform in Serbia. That is why we believe that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure, done in a serious way and then put it before the Assembly. I have to say once again, the definition that I'm right about what I'm saying is that mostly all the SPS businessmen hired this law to pass, and that's enough talking about this and about the intentions of this law, that this is the law that occurred the moment they proposed it, but for some reason it didn't go away when they were in power. We therefore believe that this law should not be a mark of one democratic authority, that it should stop considering it, reconsider and adopt another proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14047	Thank you. He has the word National MP Branislav Ivkovic On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. [[right on line]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14048	Ladies and gentlemen, we have already concluded here that for this speaker, a man should first have moral qualities, then he should be well raised, under three, he should have honor and a certain personal dignity and, under four, should not be concerned with politics, because here we are not chosen to deal with politics, but rather with those legal projects that most in the Assembly estimate are in the interest of the citizens of this country. Mr. President-in-Office of the DSS Group, the Socialist Party of Serbia supported your legal package from the judicial system and it did not bother you at that time. And we supported this legal project, because it was in the interest of the citizens of this country, because we knew that the Government of the Republic of Serbia was preparing a legal project, which meant that no judge, no courier, would remain in the judicial system until they passed through the new competition and through a major solution. That's why we're reading the judge's lists now, which are being replaced because they've been tried by the applicable law, and nothing else. We were together with you yesterday, you abstained, we against the Agency Act, because we realized that it was a system "slut, bow, just a train to pass" because this agency law has no essence, no finance, but today we are for the law on commercial chambers, because frankly, and our failure to work under the 1979 law. Secondly, the law on commercial chambers (and I will explain it in later reporting) introduces a certain order, legalizes things and creates space to do better. And at the end of this replica, please, we should have honor when we talk about the economy, that we are the people who really worked in the economy, created and left something behind, and take the right to discuss the situation in the economy, and you saw the factory just on the postcard, that's not correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14049	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, as representative of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14050	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's for a second announcement to try to point out the indeterminateness of the bill, how much it is, could be said, and harmful to the economy of the Republic of Serbia. For example, the fact that we will have an enterprise, or another form of organisation in Novi Sad, which will be a member of the New Sad Chamber of Commerce, the Vojvodina Chamber of Commerce, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce or the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce. Also, the Regional Chambers of Subotica, the Chamber of Commerce of Vojvodina, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia - the mold and administration add, the cargo, will pay the economy all because the sources of financing of the customs chamber and some yet undefined sources, which the lawmaker has not clearly defined here. The Chamber will, of course, charge one part of its income from services, but these other sources, the legislator did not define. We are now dividing companies into chambers, not related to business, not by necessity, not by their wishes, but territorial. So, if there's one company in Vojvodina, it's located in Bac, for example. And he's related to the company in Lapov, they can't cooperate. They can only go through the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, they can't cooperate differently because they're separated, and you've torn up this little single market space that exists in Serbia. You are further tearing it apart, not only by organising chambers of commerce, but, as you say here, in Article 2: "The chamber can also establish in its area organisational units, outposts, exposures, centres, agencies." Well, that's not enough for you either, but in article 19, you say, "The Chamber can also educate special organizations, bureaus, agencies, centres and others." That chamber is going to turn into something that's going to take over the entire economy, and I don't know how it's going to get out of it. It is foreseen here in Article 5, and pointed out by the head of a parliamentary group, and I don't know, it seems that only one parliamentary group can say that it is ruling. I think it was the one, he said the chamber will now co-operate with both employers and trade unions, and it does say in Article 5(2) that the chamber is co-operating with union organisations and employers' organisation. There's no such thing in the draft labour law. So, the chamber may be working with trade unions and employers, but there are no legal obligations, so one of the adjudicators I heard today in favour of voting this bill doesn't stand at all. In my first report, I was saying whether or not it was mandatory to join the chambers and I'm still convinced it was mandatory. If it's mandatory, it should have been written that it was mandatory. It then doesn't fit the picture the Serbian government wants to present to the public. In Article 11, you provided that the Chamber gave an opinion on drafts and draft laws and that it participates in the preparation of laws and regulations. Every Serbian citizen has the right to give an opinion on the draft law, has the right to participate in the bill, has the right to give the MP, to anyone, to whom he addresses, the bill. No law stipulates that the opinion of the chamber is mandatory when it comes to the bill. When it comes to draft laws, the bill promoter can ask the chamber, not have to. Because no other law is required for anyone to ask or respect any of her opinions. We were talking about the character of public documents issued by the Chamber of Commerce. Now, why is the Chamber of Commerce fully taking over under its command of entrepreneurs? Be careful, the Belgrade Chamber of Commerce Assembly, or the Regional Chamber of Commerce, determines which activities and areas general associations are established for. Why does the Chamber of Commerce do that? Why should the Chamber of Commerce decide which activities general associations are established for when general associations are founded by non-members of the Chamber of Commerce. Only as members of the General Association can they be members of the Chamber of Commerce. Why the Chamber of Commerce keeps the register of the General Association, and this general association has its statutes, has its own assembly, why it does not run the General Association of its registry. Why the chamber assembly determines this, and composition, as well as the way members of the corporate community choose. Now we're coming to an area that I could call a judiciary in the chamber. First of all, the court of honor. I got the material from BB from Baji's Garden. Anyone who understands the photographs, when they look at the first and third forms from this prospectus (shows the prospectus) and when they look at these two from this prospectus, they will see that it is the same product photographed in the same position. BB "Bajina Basta", of course socially, cubes in difficulty, and the company that stole his product "Feman" Jagodina is now selling the product on the Russian market. Would the court of honor intervene to call their representative and chairman of one of the committees in the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia for such a disgusting act? Well, then, a permanent court-elect. Where you gentlemen are proposing the Law on Courts, I have not seen this elected court entering the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia, but I have heard of a trade court. It is said here that the decision of a permanent elected court is final and has the power of a judicial verdict. I think you're both playing court and law here, law enforcement, and basically, the motive is very clear. The government in the chamber brings power and brings money. I understand the motives of the promoter, but I just don't want him removed from the seat of the chamber president in the manner in which his predecessor was removed. His predecessor was removed with a rifle. As you have fallen into all state institutions, so have you, my dears, you are still the government, my dears, as you have entered the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, and the man has suffered harassment. I don't even know him, I just know about the case. A voice from the O.R. That's the way it should be. Well, is that so easy to say, it looks like you and you justify it? I'd be ashamed, at least I'd be quiet, maybe sometimes I'd do it, and after all that Serbia's been through, maybe I'd do it sometime, but I wouldn't brag about it. What is clever is ashamed, fools usually serve to boast.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14051	The word has been issued by MP Zivica Predojev, as representative of the DOS parliamentary group -- Vojvodina reformists and the Sandzak Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no intention of longing for your exposure. I just want some things, because I listened very carefully to all those who praised and who agreed with the bill, but also to those who were against this bill. I have a few things to tell you. First, I'm going to read you the suggestions, because someone here used some kind of term, that this was DOS law. It's not, gentlemen. I will read to you members by party: Babić DragosDS, Vjesinović Radoslav DHS, Jovanovic Dragan SPS, Jokovic Radic Nova Serbia, Kovacevic Stanko PDS, Novaković Zoran SSJ, Pavićevic Vasilija DSS and Predojev Zivica Reformists Vojvodina. Gentlemen, it's not about the DOS proposal, it's about a proposal from people who are members of the Committee on Industry and who, you know, are less - all about the economy. The law stemmed from the obvious need of the economy to edit economic space. And let me tell you something else, there's been a lot of mention here of the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce. Let me remind you, everyone who used this and tried to use it as an argument, that the law on the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce was passed and that no one asked us. And that this law in this Yugoslavia on the same Chamber of Commerce of Montenegro has been passed. The only law on the Serbian Chamber of Commerce has not been passed. If you think that's the way it's supposed to be and that this condition that I'd say is illegal, you keep it, there's no problem. One more thing, I will repeat again, although I have listened carefully to those who have attacked this law, I can tell you that I remain at that first finding, that you have before you a proposal of a good law, because none of you have been able to give me at least one argument that would sway me in this finding. If someone thinks it's an illegal or illegal state, in which the current chamber works, better than legal status, then it's a very interesting and very strange approach to legalism and law enforcement. So I say again, vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14053	I thank you, the word has been given by MP Stanko Kovacevic, as a representative of the Movement's parliamentary group for Democratic Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14054	The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected citizens, would not have reported thirdly under this bill, if on two occasions from the head of a parliamentary group I had not heard the claim that this law was not reforming. This law may not be reformal, but this law creates conditions for Serbia's economy to be organised in such a way as to prepare it to create and participate in the maximum exploitation of the results of the economy and all other reforms that the Serbian government is carrying out or will carry out in the future. Now, let's ask, is the law reformable or not? And finally, I would like again, as I did yesterday, to appeal to my fellow DSS MPs, there is no reason why, based on one perfectly normal "technical law", as he said, we are now proving some contradictions with another MP group, but it is necessary that all of us together as DOS members plead that we accept this law and that Serbia's economy create conditions to organise itself in accordance with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14055	Right replica, MP Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14056	We did mention it, and again we will say that the law is not reform, we are staying with that claim and we have presented a number of reasons to support that fact. What might be worth pointing out on this occasion is one of the findings of an earlier speech by one of the MPs, who said that we from the DSS, younger, should be a little bit more in the economy and learn from some others about the economy. Of course, from those who made that remark, from the SPS MPs, we should not learn, nor will we ever learn how to run the economy. We saw how they led her. I don't see why we would argue under this law. We have our position that this law is not reform. Time will show whether commercial chambers will function better under the adoption of the law, whether there will be a reorganisation of chambers of commerce, whether they will become a service of the economy or not, or become one of its separate parts as they have been, which will spend their money. Someone mentioned the salary of the president of the Chamber of Commerce in Uzic. In Pancheva, it's four times that salary. In many other cities that are stronger and where commercial chambers have much higher salaries, and in Panchev there are about 50,000 average salaries in the Chamber of Commerce. So you see what other salaries have, you see what the average salaries are, what are the parts of these chambers of commerce that have these salaries. Simply, if we look at it that way, we believe that this law, which will only continue and be the continuity of this previous law, is not good and that there will be no fundamental changes that we stand for.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14057	The word has been issued by MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, another announcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14058	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think it's clear to you that I have the right to both the replica and the other announcement as president of the parliamentary group, but I'm going to do it on one cost and the other. There's a lot of modern words lately -- reform law, alignment with the European Union, transparent, experts -- and citizens don't care what you call that law. It's important to them that the economy works. Any current regime will be assessed on the basis of whether the economy produces, whether growth in economic production, whether the growth of standards is a better position for families, students and students at school and at university. It's the only criterion. That is why the SPS parliamentary group supports this legislative project. First of all, to be clear, it legalises the current situation in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, the Belgrade Chamber of Commerce and regional chambers of commerce, but what is important and good -- it creates conditions for this situation to be better and for the economy to be organised. We today have an executive power that has taken on all the rights to define the life of this country. It is very important to create a good counterweight of quality businessmen, which will help both the Assembly and the Executive Authority, to finally create conditions for the economy to function in better conditions, especially when banks are concerned. I'm going to repeat part of the discussion because I want it to be known. What the governor of the NBJ is doing today, which abolishes one after another, mostly almost all the banks on the domestic banking market. What's the point? Is it our goal tomorrow that foreign banks, using savings capital, place that savings capital in their countries or reinvest in our country? The best example is Valjevska Banka. You had one quality regional bank, which at the level of the regional chambers of commerce could manipulate and channel funds into those companies that have profitable production to move the whole end forward. Will the German bank arrive today, which will save savings on the German market or for the sake of the benefit of German consumers here. Therefore, it is important that we legalise the Chamber of Commerce, create conditions for it to perform an essential task, which is that it organises an economy and that the economy is organised, according to the Assembly, according to the Government and the public, fighting for better conditions of governance, for better tax policy, for better policy in the area of banking, and if you want for a better policy there is also a law on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises yesterday. The best economy knows which economic operators it lacks in the chain of production, in order to substitute imports of repromaterials and equipment. We do not deal with politics, but we define ourselves as those laws, regardless of the proposings, if they are quality and create a chance to live better in this country. It is certain that much more argumentative, louder, and more confident is said by one who has worked seriously than one who has never done anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14059	National MP Dragan Markovic, president of the SSJ parliamentary group, reported first.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14060	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Union will not vote in favour of this law. I have repeatedly said that there are 14 MPs in our parliamentary group, and eight employers. Neither of us has ever benefited from the Chamber of Commerce, except that we have had certain obligations and that we have been called once a year when a person needs recognition to be given, and then you need to take part. If you will receive recognition of the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, it is not the criterion of the final account and the success of one company, but you must give 10,000 marks or 20,000 marks to get the title of entrepreneur of the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia. No action-related item, what this Chamber of Commerce needs to do, is anything new in this law if we look at what it's doing and what it's doing in the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia. The Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce, I do not know any entrepreneurs that told me that the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia had made him some kind of intermediation that he had done business without having to do business with that buyer or supplier until that day, except for one item that would have been supported by the Serbian Unity Party in this law. It is an improvement in entrepreneurship and management, monitoring and transfer of international experience in these areas, and in particular management in the area of quality system. That's the only item. Furthermore, for principled reasons, we will not vote because this is the 50th law you pass in this assembly without farmers benefiting from this law. An ordinary agricultural producer cannot be a member of the chamber unless he is a member of the cooperative and can never be invited to go abroad, to go to the Netherlands and see how agricultural producers live there, or to provide him with a loan so that he can feed his family. That's what I said about the Agency Act, which we also voted for, and the item is missing from that law. Also, harmonisation, one item says: bringing the interests of the chamber members in line. The interest of a chamber member is financial interest. If it is not item number one to help every company financially, if we know that it is a very bad financial situation in the country, what interest does the entrepreneur have to be a member of that chamber and what he can expect from the chamber to help him. Also, they only have interest in people who are officials in the chamber, that's what old practice has shown today. Those who have high functions in the chamber when they make business co-operation, when a buyer comes to Yugoslavia, first takes him to their businesses. In particular, I live in Pomorava County, but if I don't know it as a public figure that some factory in Pomorava County in a year, that I haven't been back in the last ten years, had any help from the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce, what would ordinary citizens and ordinary people say then. We would vote in favour of this law if this item - agricultural producers - were included and that agricultural producers can expect to take care of them once. Since we from the Serbian Unity Party have asked the agenda to be a point of trust, and so far the President of the Assembly has not put it on the agenda, and seven months have passed, we use the opportunity whenever you propose a law to ask - where is the interest of the agricultural producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14061	This concludes the presentations of representatives of the parliamentary groups. I give my word to the proposing representative, Mr. Radoslav Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14062	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has today said many things behind this speaker, many things are false. Some have been misdemeanorized, and some have not known what this law says because they have not read it in detail. First of all, I didn't come to the head of the Chamber of Commerce with a coup, but in legal elections. There were two candidates: one candidate was the Democratic Party of Serbia and it was me. In those elections, I received 50 votes and one vote was abstentioned, and the candidate for the Democratic Party of Serbia did not get a single vote. Secondly, it's a good thing the government didn't propose this law. This is an economic law, so it's a good thing the Committee on the Industry of the Assembly is proposing this law. All parties, the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Party of Serbian Unity, as well as all other parliamentary parties, participated and proposed the law. We've had a full debate about this law. The debate was wide open. All members of the Committee on Industry were present at a meeting with regional chambers of commerce and businesses of Serbia, where it is unanimously supported by this law on chambers of commerce and the chamber system in Serbia. It's not true that decentralisation has not been performed here. It's true we haven't had a law since 1979. It also said that there should be three professional chambers in the region of Serbia, and that regional chambers should exist on a regional basis. Gentlemen, that's not possible. First of all, I've been in business for 30 years. I started a craft shop, and today I have a big company. It's not possible, because when you start with the border principle then you have to go to the region as well. You can't have a regional principle in the region and you can have a border principle up there. Three chambers, industrial chambers, small and medium-sized enterprises and the agricultural chamber were also discussed here. And if that were the case again, there would have to be a Serbian Chamber of Commerce that would unite the interests of these three chambers. The rounding memo shows that these chambers should be joined in the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce, but we have primarily the Montenegrin chamber system, which is why we believe it is necessary to have a chamber system in Serbia. Gentlemen, the Chamber of Commerce under the Constitution cannot give opinions and proposals for laws. According to the Constitution, it is not authorized to propose laws, and that is the fundamental thing why we have introduced it into the law. The Chamber of Commerce is not operated by persons employed in the chamber, managed by businessmen. If something's wrong with the Chamber of Commerce, then the businessmen have to change it. What we are doing to adopt the law is certainly directed towards the possibility of reforming the chamber system in Serbia. There's been a lot of talk here about why independent businessmen aren't involved in this law. If you have read this proposal correctly, independent businessmen are included in the law on chambers of commerce in Serbia. Agricultural producers also via the cooperative alliance and cooperatives. Here is probably the biggest problem and confusion in following a memo from the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce. As a man and president of the Chamber of Commerce, I can tell you that I don't fight for a chair and chair. I've been at this post for a year, I don't get paid in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, and I don't want to earn income or pay. But I am eager to reorganize the chamber system. Some who have such desires have also caused some problems in organising a chamber system in Serbia. It's said we haven't clearly defined public authority. Public powers are given to other laws. We have accepted here that we will exercise the public powers entrusted to us by other laws that this congregation will adopt. It is true that at this moment there are two chambers of commerce operating in Serbia: the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia does not participate in Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, Montenegro's Chamber of Commerce and Serbia's Chamber of Commerce. It is certain that after the adoption of this law, a chamber system must be arranged at the Yugoslav level. The chambers of commerce need to issue a bonus. They are the only ones who are authorized to issue credits for their commanders and everywhere in the world if you want to work and get goods on delayed payments they are asking you for a bonus from the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce shall have the obligation to provide valid and accurate information on each economic operator. You ask -- how will the chambers of commerce get closer to small businesses and craftsmen. This is exactly why we passed the law and suggested that certain municipalities should open offices of chambers, offices and departments of municipalities, and the old law should be cleared of self-management and terminology. We designed trades in that law not to be involved. It is not true, as someone said, that a chamber for Serbia is being established in Belgrade. That is not said in this law, Serbia's Chamber of Commerce for Serbia, and Belgrade's Chamber of Commerce for Belgrade's Territories. There were some more personal questions about my being a member of some other political parties. I want to answer - I have never been a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I have never been a member of the JUL or the Communist Party, but since 1990 I have been a member of the Democratic Party, then of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and of the Democratic Party of Serbia. I was also nominated in the sense that my firm got a job from Serbia's Elektroprivreda at the height of four million marks. I must say that my firm has not received such a job from the Elektroprivreda of Serbia. My firm participated in an international tender with the European Agency and received a job of two million marks, since it was the most favourable, as the second bidders sought over four million marks. You can check all that out at the International Co-operation Agency, where foreign companies were competitors, and I got a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14063	Thank you. The People's MP, Dejan Michael, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14064	Mr. Veselinović, you mentioned something we didn't talk about here. We didn't speak because it's far behind us and because we as the Democratic Party of Serbia, when we came out of the DOS coalition in December's elections, conditioned and insisted that the injustices that were done before 5 October, but also after 5 October, the papers. One of these injustices is exactly how it got into Serbia's Chamber of Commerce. It's true and you know it well. We've been against crisis headquarters since day one, against revolutionary justice. What's been taken, it's cursed. The revolutionary justice led us from 1945 to October 5, 2000, and that's where we came from. We've always been against it and crisis headquarters. Mr. Veselinović, we know well how it was voted for you, how only one vote was received. We know very well that Minister Batic attended. What will the justice minister do when voting on the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce? Why is it that Milan Nejegomir, a prominent businessman, who nobody in Serbia can say a single word about, has received one vote? Is that an accident or not an accident? Was it a dead end or another box? How was the vote? Were there any friendly conversations before the vote? That's all the things we didn't want to talk about here. We said we didn't want to legalize a state that was radically created, that we wanted reform law, not a law that would legalize what we had and what we had. Mr. Veselinović, these are the injustices we have spoken of, in which we have not participated and we will always talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14065	Right on line, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14066	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reasonable people don't appreciate and are too much of an ex-post mind. But because of all those nameless ones, who in crisis headquarters recognized everything but the definition -- kidnapped -- damn it, I'm going to remind you of the first crisis headquarters that was made in this country and the person who only has the right to share our moral pucks for it today. Because some people, taking on an extremely great responsibility to themselves, are today anathemized not by those they faced at those crisis headquarters, but by those who, while they formed those crisis headquarters, were standing behind them looking for something like that. On the night between 5 and 6 October 2000, the country's first crisis headquarters was created, not because someone wanted to usurp the government, but because the state institutions of this society had not functioned, because they sought to establish order and return politics to the institutions. The crisis staff was made by SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica, by inaugurating Mr. Svilanovic and asking him to engage in the field of media, Mr. Covic and Mr. Mihajlovic, along with Mr. Perisic and Mr. Obradovic, asked to engage in police and military matters, Mr. Labus to engage in the area of economy. This is the first step in all that followed. Unlike you, I don't think that was wrong. That was necessary. What's wrong is giving support to this proposal, and then hesitating from a clear and very necessary argument for something like that. Yesterday we talked about the Agency and the Small and Medium Enterprises Act and we didn't get an answer to the question why the law was good on the Committee of Resolution and it wasn't good at Parliament's session. Today we have no answer to the question why this law is bad, and it was good when MPs, among other things, and the DSS, supported it as a legal initiative. It's not a good thing we get into a situation like this every day. They are not good unnecessary conflicts, because they do not in themselves change the situation in Serbia. Don't blame the facts and don't Anathetize people who don't deserve it. Because when you condemn the crisis headquarters, you condemn those brave individuals who stood in front of one Milovan Boyic on October 6th, who stopped at the Clinical Centre and took responsibility for themselves, who in many of the institutions of this country who failed, on that day rolled up their sleeves showing their willingness to take over the part of responsibility, the responsibility that was expressed and in the act that I mentioned to you, which was initiated by the president of your party and the state, whom we still support today, and I say we did it back then.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14067	The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14068	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are in the National Assembly. I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure for Article 101, which says that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. We are standing before the vote on the law on chambers of commerce, which each parliamentary group has said its own. We are not voting on the legislator of this bill, nor on the conditions under which the promoter came into office, past the National Assembly, and he is currently an MP of the National Assembly. Therefore, I would like to warn everyone that we are obliged, according to the Rules of Procedure, to respect Article 101, to respect the dignity of the Assembly and to do our job for which we are here in the Assembly. As far as crisis headquarters are concerned, DOS has committed itself to the transitional government to remove the crisis headquarters and restore the situation to its own, and has not returned. I am deeply convinced that the crisis headquarters will eventually be subject to criminal matter of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14069	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic (second call).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14070	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to have your attention. The Serbian Unity Party and the word Unity obliges us all not to argue, gentlemen, especially you from DOS, because you promised Serbian citizens better tomorrow. We have a problem with Cosmet, 1,300...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14071	Mr. Markovic, the subject. Second notification under the Commercial Chamber Act. Please, don't say I'm the only one who's giving you any warnings later. You answered, and I gave you my word after the promoter. Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14072	I didn't know. Let me be forgiven by those I gave my finger several times that they formed crisis headquarters. Tonight we also learned here, as well as the whole of Serbia and Yugoslavia, who first formed the crisis headquarters -- President Vojislav Kostunica. That's why emergency elections need to be discussed as soon as possible in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14073	Mr. Markovic, I'm giving you a warning because, despite my warning, you haven't talked about the subject. This concludes the discussion in principle. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hereby conclude the original search. I'm putting the draft law on chambers of commerce to the vote, in principle. For 126, against 63, with three abstentions, no four, a total of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the proposal for a law on chambers of commerce, in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. Representative, Government, Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14074	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is related to all amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party to this bill, aimed at indicating that the economy will not withstand a single chamber monopoly. It is our desire that the association be not restricted territorially and that it should not be tied exclusively to a single chamber of commerce, because it is a mark of the regime through which we, we hoped, had gone through. For this reason, in the description of chambers, practically, in Article 1, I suggest that everything be in the plural, and that the words "determined area" should be deleted, because I will always be against you sharing companies or other forms of business organization, entrepreneurs, peasants, just on the basis of where their home is located or where their headquarters is located, to give them the opportunity to develop and to raise interests that one day our little Serbia remains to break. That is why I think that in the single market, Serbia is a single market, there is no separation of business entities, there is no favouring, there is no separation of less developed areas or better developed areas. Because, you'll admit, it doesn't matter if someone is going to be a member of the New Sad Chamber of Commerce or if they're going to be a member of the Chamber of Commerce at Uzic. Let them join together, let them form chambers of commerce, let them seek their own interest, whether it will be a merger towards the kinship of production, a border association, whether it will be an association caused by a work that looks like it, so let's say all co-operatives and finalists join together in a chamber that will carry out the whole work. Leave it to the economy to manage, don't conduct. This kind of organization of the Chamber of Commerce is a conduct of the economy, and this economy won't last, it won't last. Our business people work together with business people in the world, and they know very much how it works in the world. With this kind of return decades ago, I don't think Serbia will get anything. Please make sure that we're in the O.R. before I make a statement on my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-20-0.u14075	I ask the Members of Parliament to establish the quorum for the continuation of the work. I realize we don't have a quorum to work with, and I'm setting a break and we're going to continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Bon appétit.
