ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 180 MPs. Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Milos Lučić, Dusan Budišin, Ljubisa Djokovic, Milutin Svetanović, Predrag Stojanović, Branislav Pomorički, Petar Misic, Vasilija Pavićevic, Ružica Veljović, Nebojsa Leković and (before noon) Dragan Vuksic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-President, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within seven days of the obligation of the National Assembly, prescribed by Article 147(1). The Rules of Procedure, to bring the Republic's budget for next year by the end of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly, which runs until the end of December 29, 2001. I remind you he's a member of 85. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are scheduled to adopt the minutes of the previous session of the National Assembly before setting out the agenda. Since the previous session lasted 24 days of work, after its completion we immediately called for a new session; please consider this as a reason why the record could not be completed and leveled, so we will not be able to adopt it now. (Otherwise, there are over 90 pages of typed text so far. I would like to point out in particular that at the meeting of the National Assembly, the stenographic notes immediately delivered to parliamentary groups, so that any of the MPs, who wishes to do so, can have full insight into the course of the session, make decisions and the results of the vote. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vojislav Seselj appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15795	Your idea, Mrs. Micic, is very good, well thought out, has only one flaw, cannot fit in with business provisions. Because, Article 85. The rules of procedure are clear. Under Article 85, it is impossible to begin a new session until the minutes from the previous session are delivered to the MPs. If delivered directly before the sitting, it is possible to decide to discuss the minutes the following day. But since we haven't been delivered the minutes from last session, we don't even know who the National Assembly president is. Excuse me, you're new to me here, I don't know what your function is. Who was and who wasn't, you don't know it reliably, because Novakovic was in Thessaloniki, and you claim he was here. So I'm not interested in that question at all. It is important to me that the Rules of Procedure say there must be a record before the session begins. Paragraph 1 states that the minutes of the previous session shall be adopted prior to the establishment of the agenda. This has to be respected. There is no possibility of this changing, except in one case, to change the Rules of Procedure immediately. If the minutes from the previous session are presented to the MPs immediately before the beginning of the session, and not so, the adoption of the minutes will take place the following day before the agenda. If the record isn't served, the session can't even begin. It's a logical interpretation of this legal norm. But since everything can, since you're used to being able to do anything, the Serbian government's office can vote, and Novakovic from Thessaloniki can vote, Jocic can go hunting and turn out to be a ruff at random, so what happens? You can have anything. But then it should also be clear to the whole Serbian public how you literally can do anything, regardless of the regulations, regardless of the Rules of Procedure. It was mine to draw your attention to what it says in the Rules of Procedure, which you have imposed on the National Assembly, and it is up to you to tell the Serbian public, "Yes, that's what it says in the Rules of Procedure, but we can do it differently because we want to do it differently."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15796	Mr. Seselj, your objections are somewhat justified, but I said that the service was objectively unable to prepare the record because it was very large. We've already had a situation like this once, and we've already had a session without the minutes being adopted. However, priority should be set. Also, there is a provision of Rules of Procedure - Rule 147, which states: "The budget of the Republic for the irregular year shall be brought no later than the end of the second regular session of the National Assembly". Well, then I think it's more of a priority to adopt the budget than to adopt the minutes from the previous session. In addition, it should be borne in mind that this Rules of Procedure retained some of the provisions of the previous work of the National Assembly, so that it maintained some inflexible and did not foresee that reforms would take place, and now reforms are under way, being done with a full pair and therefore we have not been able to prepare this minutes. Do you want me to put a vote in breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I put to the vote the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which Mr Vojislav Seselj pointed out. For 51, against 107, abstentioned 12, did not vote 21, a total of 191 MPs present. I find there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. After the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Branislav Ivkovic, followed by Jovan Deretic, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15797	Ladies and gentlemen, the budget law is certainly one of the most important legal acts brought by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because it fully defines the country's social, economic policy in the coming period. It is probably next to the Constitution of Serbia and the Law on the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia. That is why the budget law is one of the most important legal projects to be passed during the year. I report a breach of Rules of Procedure, Articles 80 and 142. What's this about? Ending the previous session, the chairman of the Republika Srpska Assembly scheduled the third regular session. The appointment of the Third Regular Session implies the delivery of material no later than seven days before that session, but what is more important implies both the right and the obligation of the Members to, in accordance with Article 142. Rules of Procedure, no later than three days before the beginning of the session of the delivery of their amendment. We have received a review of the appointment of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session where the chairman is calling for Article 80. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that discusses the regular session. No emergency session. The MPs received a telegram specifically calling for the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, there's no indication of any emergency legal project or emergency session. It is true that the MPs were delivered about 11.00-12.00 hours yesterday, where certain legal projects are listed as an emergency procedure. The Rules of Procedure, Rule 142, has been injured because MPs have been prevented from submitting amendments. A third regular session has been scheduled; according to the Rules of Procedure, we had three days before the session to deliver these amendments. We received a project a few hours before that session to work on and deliver amendments, so I suggest, since the Rules of Procedure, Article 142, has been injured. (and you will realize) that this session is now interrupted and scheduled for Monday. If it's a regular session, we have three days before the regular session to deliver our amendments. If it's an emergency procedure, go ahead, schedule for tomorrow, so we can do the amendments and be on time for the start of tomorrow's session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15798	Mr. Ivkovic, the session was called on the basis of Article 80(2), where it is said: "Extremely, the notice of the time of the session and the agenda can be delivered within a short period of time" (from seven days) "where the president of the National Assembly is obliged to explain such a procedure at the beginning of the session". I explained such a procedure at the beginning of the session - because we are obliged to adopt the budget under Article 147(1). From the promoter, from the Government, you have received acts saying that three laws are on the agenda of the emergency procedure: the budget, the sales tax and excise duties. In that case, the provision of Article 160(4) applies: "Amendment to the draft law under emergency procedure may be submitted no later than the start of the pre-law search. "So you can submit the amendments until the start of the draft law. You have the proposals of the motionors that have been sent to you in good time, it says to everyone that by emergency procedure, it is based on Article 158. Are you satisfied with my answer? I'm putting on a vote for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. For 32, against 98, a abstentioned one, was not voted 60, a total of 191 MPs. I find there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here's a word from Mr. Deretic after Ivkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15799	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, the SSJ MPs' club considers calling this session to be one big mistake. Nikoldan is a great fame in Serbia, which celebrates more than 50% of the population. Instead of the start of Monday's assembly session, it is scheduled for today, so that a session would be concluded before Catholic Christmas, so that Catholic Christmas would be a fair. The SSJ Parliament Club sees this as a religious insult and therefore we will not participate in the work of this session. As for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I quote Articles 142 and 101. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15800	I have already explained the violation of Article 142, and the Assembly has already decided that there is no such injury and that it is applicable, because it is an emergency procedure, Article 160. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. No one was yesterday, as far as I know, today is the second day and I don't see why you'd boycott the session. Here you go. The word is Mr. Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15801	Mrs. Micic, you were just a very convincing representative of the government's interest. I understand that the Serbian government is in a hurry to adopt the budget as soon as possible. However, the National Assembly must not be in a hurry. It is of interest to the National Assembly to process the content of the budget law as closely as possible, so that if it is adopted, it is adopted to be in as high quality form as possible. We cannot begin this session yet, because the SRS parliamentary group has submitted amendments in time to all members of the budget law. We work at night, unlike your services that don't arrive or record to make. Thanks to our up-to-dateness, we'll probably have a very good budget debate. It doesn't matter in this case, something else matters. In accordance with Article 144. Rules of Procedure, a session of the National Assembly cannot begin until the Government, as a promoter, has been written about our amendments, as well as the Assembly Committees. I know, confidently, that the government hasn't been in session since this morning. I don't know if she got into the hands of the SRS amendment, which are about to hand over the assembly service at 9.50 a.m. this morning, so I suggest you postpone the start of the session until the Government of the Republic of Serbia gets our amendments, hold a session, plead on each amendment, and while the relevant assembly committees consider all amendments to the SRS. Article 144 says, "The legislator, the committees responsible and the Government are obliged to consider, before the National Assembly session, amendments submitted on the draft of the law and to inform the National Assembly of which the amendments propose that they be accepted by the National Assembly and rejected." There is absolutely no condition to hold a session now, until the government and the committees have come forward. You can again, on an interesting principle, put it here to vote, so when you get most of it, you can realize there were no violations of the Rules of Procedure. So, objectively, there were violations of the Rules of Procedure and when you decide it wasn't. You don't care how one day history will judge the sessions of the National Assembly where you had most. (President: Time. I'm done. This is one of those cases where you think that your arrogance and your majority are enough to legally overcome the legal norm. Legal norms can never be run down legally.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15802	I agree with you, Mr. Seselj, I'm just referring you to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure: "If the Government does not give its opinion on the bill within the set time limit, the bill will also be considered without the government's opinion." I've already noted that these are acts that have been placed on an emergency matter in the procedure. Also, I refer you to Article 136, paragraph 5, (please follow): "If the committees and the government do not deliver reports, or opinion, the National Assembly may decide to consider the bill without them, or set a new deadline within which they are required to do so. " (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Are you satisfied, there's no search opening, do you want to vote on this? You have to wait your turn. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: New breach of the Rules of Procedure. ( b) Do you want the Assembly to make a statement about this objection? We won't talk. The word is Mr. Ivkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15804	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have indeed tried to explain to you and myself, as well as to the citizens of Serbia what this is all about. Now I'm gonna have to do it a little bit more vigorously. A third regular session, under Article 80, was scheduled directly, asking us to submit amendments until the start of the budget debate, when the Serbian government adopted the budget on Tuesday, and we received material yesterday around 12.00 hours. So, the Rules of Procedure, Rule 142, which says that three days before the start of the regular session, amendments must be delivered. It's not about who's worth it and who's not worth it. The amendments exist. The thing is to define the budget by strategic social and economic policy next year, that we have to ask why someone plans a billion and 300 million for daily and travel, and 280 million for sport and youth. It's a lot of serious stuff. It is very unserious to schedule the Third Regular Session, thereby putting Article 142 into effect. The Rules of Procedure, that the MP must sit three days before that regular session to deliver amendments and then give it to him, yesterday about 12.00 hours, the budget, two amendments to the law and ask him to submit amendments before the debate, and the third regular session is scheduled. The right of MPs and obligations under Article 142 has been violated directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15805	Mr. Ivkovic, we've talked about this before. To make it clear to you, let me tell you, there's no session by emergency procedure, it's an emergency act. So it can be both in a regular and emergency session. I once again refer you to Rule 160 4: "Amendment to the draft law under emergency procedure may be submitted no later than the start of the search for the bill." This violation of the Rules of Procedure has already made a decision, so I will not put you to the vote. Mr. Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure. Anything new?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15806	There's nothing new here, unfortunately, here it's all done in the old days, but there's no Martians. I don't know when you've changed it before. You just missed the vote on my commercial injury to the Rules of Procedure. Well, it's a good thing you did it, because otherwise you would have violated the 160th term you were referring to. You incorrectly interpreted a member of 160 and inappropriately interpreted him here. Article 160, paragraph 3, states: "If the Government does not give an opinion on the draft law within the specified time limit, the bill will also be considered without the government's opinion." This provision is clear, this applies to a law that is not proposed by the government. However, Article 4 states: "Amendment to the draft law under emergency procedure may be submitted no later than the start of the review of the bill." There's no such thing as what you said there is, that the government can't plead. The government must declare all amendments to the legal projects it has proposed. The budget law was proposed by the government. Amendments have been tabled within the Rules of Procedure. The government should now plead before the session begins. It is not the Rules of Procedure - before the debate on this agenda begins, but before the session begins. You now need to give a break, about an hour, to order Minister Djelic of the Service to pick up the amendments, to run to the Serbian government, to hold an emergency cabinet session and to inform us of his position under these amendments. But not to act out. We'll find out if it really was a session or not. He can't come out, come back and say the session was. We'll check that out. Don't let the Novakovic case happen again. You can make fun of it for as long as you like. You know, I don't go out this many times for a pay phone because I'm trying to convince you, but I'm trying to show to the Serbian public how unscrupulous you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure. You're taking my hand with your behavior. Maybe there's no transmission, throws me Cedomir Jovanovic, but he probably has a stenogram. If you remove the stenogram, it has the memory of the people present. The legend will spread through the Serbian people, as you unscrupulously violate the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, the laws, how you do whatever comes to your mind, relying on your total assembly majority. There have been previously comfortable congregation majoritys, however, now the earlier congregation majority do not know what hit them. (President: Time. According to what you're doing, you'll find yourself in awe of this behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15807	Mr. Seselj, I have already given you the answer, and I note again that Article 160 says, "Amendment to the draft law under the emergency procedure may be submitted no later than the start of the legislative review." I remind you that we have not yet adopted the agenda and that I have already given answers to these questions of yours. I remind you of Article 136: "If the committee responsible and the Government do not deliver reports, or opinion, the National Assembly may decide to consider the bill without them... "Are you satisfied with the answer? (Vojislav Seselj: I now have by Article 80) Shall we put it to a vote? I'm putting on a vote against Mr. Seselj's remarks. For 48, against 104 abstentions, two did not vote 36 out of 190 MPs. I find there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure advertised by Mr. Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15808	I refer you to another violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have an exact definition of what you should do in article 80. Rules of Procedure, paragraph 4, which reads: "The President of the National Assembly may postpone the hour, that is, the day of the meeting of the National Assembly, if a number of amendments are submitted to the proposed agenda of the session, which the Government and the committees in charge cannot consider before the session begins, which shall be notified in good time by the MPs." So if you had now received 200, 300 or 500 amendments, then you would have had to postpone the day of the session. There are 29 amendments here. You don't need to postpone the day of the beginning, but you need to hold off for at least one hour to get the government to consider these amendments and take their stand on each of them. This can't possibly happen. Why don't I tell you all these rules of the Rules of Procedure at once? Why am I advertising a violation of one provision at a time? Just because intimately as an opposition, I want you to break the Rules of Procedure as much as possible, because then it's all at your expense, and you're on my hands. I don't care if the budget debate starts now, in an hour or in a month. I don't care. But it doesn't matter to you, and I catch you on every mistake, every failure and every violation of the Rules of Procedure. That's what you'd have to take care of. That's where the comfortable congregation majority isn't enough for comfortable behavior, you're misbehaved, knowingly breaking regulations. The Rules of Procedure are a legal act, a general legal act, which has a rank of law. You knowingly violate it and thus demonstrate your relationship with the legal order. Of course, you have a much more serious breach of the legal order, including that you have abolished the Constitutional Court, but it is always time for the accounts to be taken. One day all accounts are in place. I don't know, you made Ivkovic wear a yellow jacket and thus demonstrate loyalty to you. Maybe one day you'll all wear blue jackets, so you can express loyalty, but it won't help much when we ask you questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15809	Mr. Seselj, you've reached out to me on the subject of an injury to the Rules of Procedure, and now you're talking about suits, really funny.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15810	It may be funny to you, Mrs. Micic, but I praise you on all televisions inside of Serbia as a very intelligent folk letter, as you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15811	I heard, thank you, Mr. Seselj, pay attention in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15812	Don't spoil that general impression now. I'm here to explain the essence of your violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15813	Let me give you an explanation. Thank you. You advertised the violation of Article 80(4), which says the president of the National Assembly can postpone the class, and you said he had to. It can, it means discretionary authority; secondly, in case a number of amendments have been submitted. I have information that a large number of amendments have not been submitted at all and, therefore, I see absolutely no reason why I should postpone the session. Are you satisfied with my answer? So let's put it to a vote. I'm putting in a vote to comment on the Rules of Procedure submitted by Mr. Seselj. For 37, against 100, a abstentioned one, did not vote 53, out of a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision not to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Ivkovic has the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15814	Ladies and gentlemen, the power and power of one party, a party organisation, is seen primarily in the strength of the programme of the party, which the party can present to the citizens of Serbia; it is seen, of course, in the strength of the person, who are in the leadership of the party and represent the party in front of the citizens of Serbia. When one and the other thing runs out, it goes to flora and fauna, from hawks to mice, and then it starts to have fun with jacket colors. It's all about those who talk like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15815	This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December 2001, should be put on the agenda. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to put the draft law on amendments to the Transport Tax Act on an urgent procedure. For 137, against 47, the abstentioned were not voted by eight, a total of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December 2001, should be put on the agenda. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to put the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act on Emergency Procedures on the agenda. For 138, against 49, the abstentions did not vote 7, a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to accept this proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft budget law for the Republic of Serbia for 2002, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December 2001, should be put on the agenda. I am putting on the vote by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to put the draft budget law for the Republic of Serbia on the agenda for 2002 as an emergency procedure. For 135, against 50, the abstentions were not voted by 8, a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 22 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group suggested putting on the agenda an emergency procedure for a resolution on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, which submitted to the National Assembly on 1 November 2001. I would like to put a vote on the proposal by a group of 22 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group to put the draft resolution on the agenda for urgent proceedings in Kosovo and Metohija. For 54, against 104 abstentions, 29 of the 194 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the Serbian Radical Party's proposal. (Vojislav Seselj asks for a word in the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, Mr. Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15816	You shouldn't have put this proposal to the vote here at all, because it's obsolete. The proposal was about going out to the Kosovo and Metohija occupation elections. Since it wasn't put on the agenda in time, it's the same thing as putting our request to the agenda to be replaced by a Martian. And so, literally, the request arrived, on time, and now you're putting it on the agenda. You know, when something doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15817	It's about respecting the legal code, you could have withdrawn the proposal then. A group of 40 MPs from the DOS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - the Democratic Party of Serbia, proposed to put the draft law on co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991, which submitted to the National Assembly on 11 December 2001. I remind you that this proposal was submitted for the agenda of the previous session, that it did not meet the conditions laid down in Article 159(2) and Article 3. The Rules of Procedure, so the National Assembly did not declare itself, which I informed the authorised representative of the applicant and the National Assembly, and that the National Assembly would declare in this session, in accordance with Article 86. Rules of Procedure. I am putting to the vote a proposal by a group of 40 MPs from the DOS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - Democratic Party of Serbia to put the draft law on co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed on the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991. For 42, against 143, three abstentions, five of 193 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this proposal. A group of 42 MPs from the DOS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - the Democratic Party of Serbia proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of a recommendation on how to resolve the crisis in the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 11 December 2001. I am putting to the vote the proposal of a group of 42 MPs of the DOS - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - Democratic Party of Serbia to put the proposal on the agenda for a recommendation on how to solve the crisis in the Republic of Serbia, following an urgent procedure. For 81, against 96, with three abstentions, did not vote 13, out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 23 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's MPs suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2001. (Vojislav Seselj: To explain, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 87). You have no right to explain, without a search, pursuant to Article 159(4). I am putting to the vote the proposal of a group of 23 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party Group to put the draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs on the urgent procedure. (Vojislav Seselj: According to the Rules of Procedure. I put the motion to the vote. For 47, against 113 abstentions, they did not vote 32, out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this proposal. The Autonomous Region of Vojvodina Assembly proposed that the draft law laying down certain responsibilities of the Autonomous Region, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2001, should be put on the agenda. I would like to put to the vote the proposal of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina Assembly to put the draft law laying down certain competences of the Autonomous Region on the agenda of the urgent procedure. For 25, against 109 abstentions 47, 12 of the 193 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted this proposal. The Committee on Justice and Administration has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the termination of functions, the resolution and selection of judicial authorities, which will consider the proposals for decisions set out by the Committee on Justice and Administration. I am putting on the vote of the Committee on Justice and Administration's proposal to put on the agenda the point of termination of office, resolution and selection of judicial holders. For 121 against 49, the abstention of three, did not vote 16 out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Vesic, based on members 86 and 137. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport Taxes and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises. I am putting to the vote the motion of Parliamentarian Goran Vesic to conduct a joint review of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport Taxes and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises. For 128, against 46, the abstentions were not voted 13 out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal from MP Goran Vesic to conduct a joint search on these two agenda points. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15818	You had to, according to article 200. Rules of Procedure, to include two requests from the Serbian Radical Party to vote for mistrust to ministers. It is a request for the replacement of Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic and Minister of Education and Sports Gaš Knezevic. Those demands were filed months ago. In May, there was a regular session, a regular session, so it couldn't. During the summer, only extraordinary sessions could have been held, but since October the month has been a regular session. In accordance with Article 200. The Rules of Procedure, when 20 MPs submit a proposal to vote non-trust to a single member of the Government of the National Assembly to discuss the confidence of the Government or its member, shall be held no later than three days and no later than 15 days after the date of submission of the motion for a non-confidential vote. It's been a lot more than 15 days, and you, knowingly breaking the Rules of Procedure, don't put those two requirements on the agenda at all. You will again put it to the vote, whether the Rules of Procedure have been broken or not, and you will decide that it has not been broken. I know that, but there's only one thing that surprises me that you're not aware of how much this is for you a negative public stamping, which, with a smile, with a hearty, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. I don't get it. We have applied for the establishment of a polling committee on the subject of "Yugoscanica" and you have not put it on the agenda, although it is very interesting. Now Jezimir Vasiljevic says he gave Micunovic 100,000 Swiss francs, and then Djindjic told Nebojsa Covic and Jovica Stanisic, who was then the head of Uboba, and listened to Jezimir Vasiljevic, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15819	Mr. Seselj, you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15820	I'm talking about the Rules of Procedure and what you didn't put on the agenda, and you had to. You now explain why you did not put into the agenda requests for a vote of no confidence in Dusan Mihajlovic and Gaš Knezevic, and you had to put it on the agenda. Explain that to the National Assembly. All business conditions are met that you have to put it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15821	Mr. Seselj, it is the end of the second regular session and we simply couldn't physically achieve it, we only have five working days and for this reason is not put on the agenda. And we are also under obligation, according to Article 147(1), to adopt the budget for next year. Are you satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15822	I'm very pleased, too pleased with the answer only, but you have to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15823	I'll put it to a vote. For 71, against 92, the abstentions were not voted 22, out of 185 MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15824	Does that mean the Rules of Procedure aren't broken?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15825	It's not a broken Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, all points adopted by an emergency procedure shall be included in the agenda of the sittings in accordance with the order of their proposal, i.e. acceptance. The motions for acts adopted by an emergency procedure, by the competent committee or by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports, i.e. an opinion during the course of the session. Since we have come to the conclusion of all the proposals for an emergency procedure, I would like to ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on the agenda of the session in general. For 131 against 47, the abstentions were not voted 11 out of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has established the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON PEOPLE'S MEMBER STATES IN COUNTRY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA I would like to remind you that, according to Article 157 of Article 3 and in accordance with Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours. Please submit the lists, if anyone would like to apply for a debate on this agenda. I find there are no reports. Does the promoter want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I would like to inform you that, according to Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a single search, no parliamentary group has filed a written application. Before I conclude a unique search, does the promoter want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I am concluding a single search and putting the motion for a decision on Members of the People on permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to vote. For 176, no one with abstentions voted 11, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a decision on Members of the People's Parliament to work permanently in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before we move to the second item of the agenda, we will conduct a joint review of the draft laws tabled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, points 2 and 3 of the agenda. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on the draft laws proposed by MP Goran Vesic, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you of Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly - that the total time of debate in the principle of parliamentary groups is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups by proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to submit a list. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda:COURT OF THE LAW ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ISSUE AND THE ACCISATION LAW (joint principle search) Does the Proposer want to speak? He wants to. ) He has the word Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15826	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, we present to you today three key laws, and I would like to focus first and foremost on economic policy for the next year and the place of public finance in it, and then to say a few words about these first two draft laws - on excises and sales taxes. First of all, before I move on to the exposure of this matter, I would like to apologize to the MPs on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for a very short period of time and thank you for accepting this order of events. There was simply no intensity or desire on our part not to accept the discussion of these two important laws, especially the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The reason is very simple - we waited, hoping that in the assembly procedure it would be possible to pass the law on local self-government and the law on Vojvodina before the approaches voted on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because then we would have a single budget for next year. Given that you will vote on the law on local self-government early next year, and the same situation with this Vojvodina law, we have at one point realized that it is time to vote the budget. When you vote for the budget, then we will also have funds from the budget, we will have sources coming after the vote on these other two laws, which is the law on self-government, as regards the public finances of local self-government and cities, and this second law -- the technical rebalancing of this budget next year. We expect it to be at the latest sometime in February of the month. Now let me say a few sentences about economic policy, starting this year. This year, a twist was made. This year, Serbia has failed to bring all the legitimate demands of our citizens and our economy to an end. As of next year, regular flows are due. To point out a few facts: this year's economic growth will be even slightly higher than what is foreseen, and it was scheduled for December 2001 for this economic growth to be 5% real, and we will reach 5.5 to 6%, though thanks above all to the agrarian, where the increase of over 26% (it was a good year, after two dry years). As for industry, we'll have zero, stagnation. As far as statistics are concerned, we have a problem here, as statistics predict about 18-20% and naked eye, going through Serbia, given the building material, it is obvious that the fall is not that big or not at all. Our statistics must undergo a major reform next year. It only looks at what the social sector is, and in no way does not include what the economic sector is, in some branches, so our economic situation is much better in the vast part than statistics show. And with this kind of statistics, our economic growth will be higher than what was planned this year. As far as inflation is concerned, there's a situation under our control. The draft budget envisioned inflation to be 30-35%, or 30%, and we'll have about 39-40% this year. I can't help but remind you that some of the budget estimates were talking about a high percentage of 100% inflation. The budget for 2000 the former regime planned 0% and we had 116%. We've been counting at 30% to 35% this year, and we're going to have 40%. I can say that analyses that are different independent institutions of the rule show that two-thirds of that 40% inflation can be directly attributed to the harmonisation of the prices we had to do, to bring to some more normal levels. As for the price of electricity, phone impulses... We are still far from the economic price and we cannot go too quickly, of course we must closely monitor the development, the standard of living of our citizens. In the area of inflation we have a very responsible fiscal and monetary policy, we have success. I can say that the 20% projection on which this budget rests will certainly be reached if we proceed this way. The next positive shift - I can say that thanks to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have managed to pass new system laws for our country. Looking at some of the assessments that independent international financial institutions are giving us, our Law on Privatisation, the Labour Act, tax laws and changes that are now being implemented, just today, in the pension-invalid system, have picked up the highest marks. You know that the European Bank for Development, which has been working with all transition countries for 12 years, reported this year in its annual report that Serbia, i.e. SRJ, is the country that has made the most progress. Of all the 29 countries where they work, we're number one. Also, in the rankings of various institutions monitored by these markets, if we take a prominent Economist Intelligence Unit that has been monitoring this region for many years, for decades, Serbia, that is, SRJ, has made the biggest leap that one country has made in the past ten years in terms of attractiveness for investment. It also happens in investment banks or in various economic institutions, those who follow our region. Our country, almost no exceptions, is the country that made the most progress this year, according to all transition countries. Finally, if we look at the estimates we've collected from those that are accredited, that is, the IMF and the World Bank, we can also say that we are among the best progressers. Of course, looking at the side is easier to give a good grade, because people have to live with an average salary of 220 DM in Serbia. It is certain that the only estimated midterm is the one that our citizens will give when they open the refrigerator, when they go to the market, when they talk, when they go to work or when they receive a pension or get a child's allowance. Of course, there is no way we can be satisfied with the current standard of living of our citizens, and in this domain we see that according to the last figures we received yesterday on salary and pension growth, in November real salary and real pensions continued to grow. This year we will succeed through real resources, with inflation under control, to get a rise in real wages and pensions of about 15%. It's in the dinars a little bit, but it's a big and significant success and shift. Believe me, in the memos I get, in the conversation with our citizens, and even in the polls, we see that, after what was in April and May this year, when more key prices rose, when stagnation occurred, and even real wages and real pensions fell -- in the last three months, after reducing the social contributions rate in July with a transition to gross wages, we have a growth in real wages and pensions and improvement, although it is not great. Thanks to this budget and these measures that we are taking today, we will continue on this very path, with one responsible act, gradually but rapidly increasing the standards of our citizens, and not just some elite, but very wide layers of our society. The last thing I'd like to mention is that this year we've managed to regulate our external situation, especially on the financial side. We are now a member of all financial institutions. We managed at a record speed to regulate our status with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, the European Investment Bank and on 16 November, finally, perhaps most spectacular - regulation with the Paris Club. After 13 years, we got the biggest write-off one country in our situation can get, 66%. This is very important for our country of development and, more importantly, we will get 51% as soon as we conclude a medium-term plan with the International Monetary Fund. It's 51% debt write-off right now and perhaps even more importantly, given our situation and our public finances, we have a so-called. capitalisation or suspension of interest payments, 60% of them in the next three years. Before I go to the economic policy goals for next year, I'd like to say that three key years are now going on for our country. Three key years, when Serbia can be one of the countries with the highest economic growth in Europe, between 4 per cent and 6% realistically, according to about 1-2 per cent of how much on average the rest of Europe should have, unfortunately, that the rest of Europe enters the recession after 10 years of very rapid growth. It will be one of the limits of our economic policy. For the next three years, we will have, thanks to arrangements with world financial institutions, the most favourable interest we can get. We will have through three additional donor conferences expected in three years next year (July for next year), from each of them some 3.9 to 4 billion German marks to come, at least two thirds in terms of donations from the international community. And not only that: in the next three years, we will have the opportunity to get a preference in trade and open our market to our neighbours' markets and to form a strong market of 55 million consumers, and that is where Serbia will be at the centre of the countries with the largest dynamics. Does this mean that our citizens' standard of living will be at an envious level in three years? Unfortunately, no. But there will be an increasingly wider and faster improvement, which is more important not only for the elite, but also for the wide layers of our citizens. Our goal in three years must be that tens of thousands of our citizens are able to buy a new car, that they can take housing loans, find a roof over their heads, that they can buy a new refrigerator, a stove and a TV set. These everyday things will be an absolute priority of the government in the years to come, starting next year. This will also help us in our lending activities. As you can see, international financial institutions have started lending and already, with the return of confidence in our financial sector, created a 360 million German mark, which will be the basis for new loans. What are the objectives of economic policy for next year? We have four key goals next year. You have one accompanying material that hopefully will help search these three proposed laws. 1. First of all, we must preserve the new and newly found stability. There is no citizen or businessman who is not, in any case, one major shift in this newly created stability -- when people know that there is no risk, the sythic devaluation, when citizens know that there is no risk of a single Government decision that can change the rates of tax; they will have to come to the public, in front of the media to explain what they want it to be. There is great stability when public finances are known to be under control and there are no quasi-fiscal deficits formed through some secret accounts and which are then injected and passed through inflation. There's great stability when it's known that public finances respect their word. This brings back the thread that has been broken -- the trust between the rust, the citizens and the economy. It seems to me to be a great achievement this year, not just for the government and those who support this government, but for all of us. When it's known that for the first time all pensions are paid in time, in the agreed amount. For the first time in 12 years, all child's allowances were paid in time. And not only that, three times this year, extra children's allowances were given thanks to donations and extra-profits, in a few days. For the first time in 12 years the wheat was bought into three wars, without devaluation, without inflation, in the agreed deadlines; the first time we could from our forces, without primary emissions, to finance with 3.5 billion dinararemonts of EPS. For the first time in 12 years, those with disabilities and fighting rights were paid in time without talking about wages. For the first time, all the salaries of those who live on the budget are given on time. It gives great security and that's something we must, at any cost, preserve. It also provides a basis for democracy and a base for the further development of our society. If we look at our society, we must see that there has been some redistribution in our society, which everyone has wanted for 12 years or even longer. People didn't go the right way to solve the problem of redistribution in our society. If you look, when we said in the budget for this year that health, education and justice are a priority, we respected it. Not only is the participation of educators in a paid salary fund increased by 3%, but also thanks to the government's regulation that should be made, freeze the profit fund in some public enterprises where wages were high, as well as the fact that salaries in the military were frozen at the federal level this year until 15 November. Because the salaries in some other state bodies didn't increase by the same percentage, we actually have one coordination in our society, which happened this year. So today, in December of this year, we have a situation where people in our country live and receive salaries in many ways more according to their merit and qualifications. It wasn't a situation in January this year, it's in many more situations this year. It is now time to continue to establish what is a kind of horizontal justice or justice in the way people are paid, not because of what they are in a public enterprise, but because they have a qualification and knowledge. It seems to me another achievement we may not have talked about enough. So that stability is the first goal and there is one key goal - of 20% inflation. According to the criteria of developed countries, it is, of course, too high. The EU inflation average will not exceed 4% this year. We didn't get to that level of development, we didn't get to that level of price adjustment. The 20% level means Serbia's detoxification from inflation. The late Governor Avramovic told one great truth, he said our country mainly solves accumulated social tensions through inflation. It's in a few months the easiest way, the least resistance line, when it's given a salary that's known to be impossible to pay off from real sources. It's a losing race, it's a losing way to run the country. If, on the medium term, our country has inflation that is greater than France, Germany, Italy and other countries, but also than the countries of our environment, this means that our real income will inevitably be expressed in one solid currency as the euro, for example, fall relatively towards those countries. So, in order for our middle-term citizens to have an improvement in their lives, in order for their income, pensions to be better and better in the medium term, so that we can not only follow, but also exceed those incomes in Romania and other countries, we have to lower inflation and below what countries they have. We can't do it at this point, because we just have more harmonisation of the electricity price of synchronizing things in our economy. Next year it must be a key goal for all of us. In the negotiation of companies, between public enterprises, between the government and those who live on state money, we need to comply with that goal and realize that one salary is 4% real to one 20% inflation, just as much as the salary growth is nominally 140% to some inflation growth of 100%. So, what the late Governor Avramovic said, we must finally succeed in our society, with negotiation and social agreement, to collectively get out of this dependence on inflation. It's the only way we're going to have that real shift in our incomes in three or four years. That inflation will be the best, I'd say, a fuse to continue with the policy of a stable dinar course without printing money. We know some of our exporters would like to have a lower course. Of course, the market has to decide. It's the National Bank of Yugoslavia's ingenuity. But it is certain, and I can tell it today to all those who would like to speculate against the dinars, who have broken their teeth four or five times about the stability of this country (so will next year; soft try again, unfortunately, because of the weak purchasing power of our citizens, but also because we have a responsible economic policy: in no case will speculation succeed for some syphitic devaluation of the dinars. It's not in the interest of our citizens, our state and our economy. That's not gonna happen. The third thing is that next year we have a deficit that's going to be covered and it's going to be real amounts. He, as suggested in the budget, will be 4.3%, so I can say that I have a deep uproar and security that we will cover that deficit. First of all, because more than half of that deficit will be covered by the privatisation process, and in the next day we will know, for the good part, how much it will be. Because almost 190 million dollars is the World Bank's loans, which have already been agreed. As for donations, they amount to nine billion dinars, more than half of which relate to the European Union and that financial support. We have at this point all the circumstances to continue stability in our country. The second objective of economic policy is to improve living standards. As I mentioned, it has grown about 14-15% this year somewhere, and next year we can count on at least 4-5% improvement. The proposed changes in the tax system today will help reduce the price of fresh food and medicines. We have a disturbance in that market, and we have to go through tax policy today, but also through better control and anti-monopoly activity on those markets, not to talk about control and what happens to drugs, to establish order, and so on these three key things for our citizens -- food, medicines and communals -- we do everything we can to ensure that their standard of life is respected. The third key objective of economic policy next year is to restructure businesses and banks. To continue as we have begun, and that is one of which we can do in economic policy, and they are absolutely necessary, and that is to restructure large businesses and banks. For this, it is necessary to separate the social and economic functions of these companies, so that the state assumes on itself this social function. Also, when it comes to a more normal volume of labour in one of these companies and banks, it allows these companies and banks to have equipment that will be more modern, so that they can go on the market and make profits. So, in a few months and years, they're hiring people again, and they're starting on better bases and in the better future. Finally, if we look at the fourth and final goal of our economic policy, and this is further integration into international flows, and we cannot have, according to the people, "and the goats and the money". We have to start paying back our debts. That's why 15.6 billion dinars are scheduled for the budget. In return, we'll get a lot more about next year. The good news for our citizens, and that is, I would say, the last debt everyone talked about, is that this year we will start paying off the loan for the rebirth of Serbia. He's even older than the debt this country made, their old foreign savings. We'll continue with the old foreign savings. This year, we respected it, both to the end and to all, 440 marks per person, and next year it will be 550 marks. Also, we've allocated about 720 million dinars to pay off that loan that we'll pay back in four years. That's what we want, as we started this year, and next year to earn and get that trust from our citizens, that the country can start with our government bonds by next year and start financing our budget deficit, like all the normal countries in the world. This concludes the exposure to grey economic policy and, let me just say, that public finances must, of course, play a key role in this context. It is not possible to have stability in the country unless we have stability and balance in public finances. We won't have regular payments, those who live off the government register and have rights, and we won't have regular incomes. Because of that, the changes we propose to you on the income side, on the tax side this year, are globally neutral. So we have a shift and a reduction in the duties, on the one hand, but we also have an increase, but very precise and with precise purposes, as far as excise duties are concerned. If you look at what you are about to be offered, in this discussion today we propose, as far as sales taxes are concerned, something that will directly have a positive effect on the standard of our citizens' lives, which is the elimination of a 20% sales tax on fresh food, i.e. Fruits, vegetables, fish, eggs; and we further propose the elimination of drug sales taxes, orthopaedic aids, blood and blood products. With this and with further delay, which you already adopted in April of this year, and in this budget we will have on these three key items -- food, medicines and communals -- an additional space for the standard of our citizens' lives. Why do we suggest changes in the range of food and medicine? First of all, because we have an unsettled situation in the food domain. Industrial producers and organised trade cannot be competitive with individual manufacturers performing at markets, which, in fact, de facto, already have plants and quite large properties. They don't pay taxes, but they place more and more goods. If we look at the situation, and it's not since this year, but it has deteriorated significantly this year, the traffic of fresh food in an organised trade was about 20% of total traffic, in that store, several years ago, and today it fell to barely 1%. So we have a problem -- we don't have enough competition and enough food on our market. We come to a paradox that is simply not sustainable in the country of Serbia, which is that food is more expensive in our country than in some countries in the environment, for example in Hungary. This must be the government's priority and it must be our economic policy's priority. We're starting tax policy today. Our firm urgency is that in two years we introduce order on that market through the introduction of fiscal registers, with fiscal memory, and in markets, as the Montenegrins did a few months ago. By introducing an additional tax on 30 June 2003, we will consider in December 2003 the situation on that food market, what is the standard of our citizens. At that point, you, as parliament, will decide whether to continue with this policy or whether we are "adult" to introduce sales taxes, that is, what will be the extra value tax at that point in the food domain. As far as the drugs are concerned, we have the same situation where controls, raids, in several of our health institutions, have shown that we still have major failures, not to say crime, where there is a kind of pump of drugs from legal flows and transfer to private pharmacies, where medicines are allegedly sold with taxes, but in fact taxes serve only as legal for an even greater profit. It's very sad and it's one big phenomenon that we have to put an end to. I don't think there's any more odious crime in this country today, knowing that we don't have enough drugs, that someone in this way will deny the cure to someone who's waiting to get it on prescription. I don't know what to think about these people, those doctors, those health workers. Thank God, it's for the minority, but we'll deal with this problem in the year that's coming, through control and through incentives. So, food, medicine, and still delaying the price of utility to two years, I think it's a winning recipe for the reductions we're expecting. It can't be less than 16.67% in many cases. In a discussion with people from the store, they have already announced that many of the lowering products will be even greater. There will be no reductions everywhere, because simply industrial production of some of these goods has been so clogged that they won't be able to start competing with individual producers. So it'll take us a few months, maybe even a whole year in some cases, to cut that price. We need to see these measures, not only as a measure to improve the standard of living of our citizens, but also as important as a strong momentum for the industrial production of food in our country; so that large slaughterhouses and agricultural industrial combinations can finally go on equal terms to produce strongly, to sign large contracts with them, in large quantities. So not only will the price be lower, but we'll have a lot more quantity and quality. That's what I'm sure of. The last, technical thing, as you say, is proposed to move the tax rate from 17% to 20%. Of course, this does not mean that the rate is increasing, but at the federal level, a special federal sales tax of 3% is abolished and there is a unification of that tax. That's good news for our economy, because in time that federal tax had different releases, different reckonings. It was a big complication in the convulsion. From now on, it will be a unique payment account, a unique way of accounting, so it will be much easier to attract, but also to control. That's what I'd like to conclude on sales tax and say a few words about excises. As far as excise duty is concerned, here we suggest that the excise duty be raised on gasoline and diesel, with my immediate point being that it does not mean that the current price will be increased. No, that price of 44.9 and 36, the dinar will remain at that level. Let's face it, in public finances, that money needed for roads should be collected by those who exploit them and travel on those roads. So there's no effect on agriculture or production, because they're used in diesel-using vehicles. This is about passenger cars. We are aware that this is an additional cost for our citizens, but we are also aware that it may be a group of citizens who may be able to afford a little more and directly use those roads that, as we know, are in a catastrophic state. This year, the rebuilding of these routes started and thanks to the excise duty, which you will hope to accept and vote today, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our country's operatives were just waiting for that chance to regain expression before even bigger infrastructure projects came in, so that they could effectively compete against international competition. That is one additional reason why we propose this measure. We'll be able to rebuild some 340km of roads next year. That means next year, with 6.5 billion dinars of gasoline, we'll have another 3.5 billion dinars of toll. So 10 billion dinars coming from the state register. About 460 million foreign credit marks, very favourable and with a very long waiting period and small interest, will come into this, from the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Development. Therefore, if you vote this measure and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the naked eye next year will see a significant improvement in our travel network. It's infrastructure and it's very positive for our entire economy. As for cigarettes, we've had a significant improvement this year in suppressing cigarette smuggling. It is best not to ask the finance minister or someone from the government, but to ask the CEO of the tobacco industry Nis, to ask people from the tobacco fund, to ask people who are legitimately involved in importing and trading large tobacco. You will see that this year - even from June to August - we have a much better situation than from September to December of this year. According to our estimates, customs estimates, the participation of foreign smuggled cigarettes has dropped from 90% to 20% to 30%, depending on the week. There are almost no days where MIP, customs or financial police not only closes some sales facilities where smuggled cigarettes are being sold, but more and more (these are larger fish) smuggling chains that are being interrupted. This is our problem because we are in a very difficult environment: both in the east and in the west, and even in the south, and even in the north of our country, there is not one border that is unfortunately not subject to this very bad case. We, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will propose through which week a new tobacco law, which will further regulate and, with hard and very strong control, establish an even better order in that domain. But we think that now that the smuggling is significantly reduced on our market, we are gradually harmonising our regulations with those of the European Union, and they say that at least 57% of the retail price is a fiscal arrest. We don't want to go that far, because we just have to look at reality. We cannot for all cigarettes, because of the standards of our citizens, because smoking is not a question of some elite in Serbia, smoking is a question of all our citizens, a very widespread bad habit. But the proposal you have here is that, on average, excise duties are raised by some two dinars, more for foreign and expensive cigarettes that smoke slightly richer people, and significantly less as regards Class C, for those who smoke a wider mass of people. This effect, on average, of two dinars, will be too much to pass on to those who are able to smoke these expensive cigarettes. Of course, this pack of cigarettes has passed and professional checks. I can say it's a good new way of calculating excises. Remember that before there was an ad valores, when the excise duty was expressed at a percentage retail price, we now moved on to something that might look like a more primitive form of collecting excise, i.e. specific dinars per pack. But she gave good results. We used to have big problems with irregular papers, which showed significantly less reckoning than what was a retail price. Here it's much easier to control the hells, there are only three categories, which are very well classified. I can say that one of the reasons why the tobacco industry Nis and the tobacco industry Vranje, which are our two domestic producers, goes so well - is because we have quite, precisely sorted out and made a range of excises, so that they have some kind of advantage over those who were their competitors, especially those from the Balkans, and there I would not want to give any names, but that is a significant shift for them too. It puts them in ideal form for possible privatisation. So what we're proposing is about two dinars on average, and as you can see, one dinar is proposed to go into two funds, which we'll find at the moment of a budget search and debate, seven hundred million dinars for medical equipment, and that's just the beginning; and three hundred million dinars for education. The rest goes into the budget. And to sum up -- the proposed changes in the fiscal system today, to which another major change will take place, which is a reduction of even a third of the taxes on financial transactions, which will go beyond the vote on the budget system law, in total, and measures, with the elimination of taxes on food and medicine, will have an effect of around 8-9 billion dinars missing in the budget register. On the other hand, you have an increase in excise duty on gasoline and cigarettes, which will have an effect of approximately 10 billion dinars. So we're on the same page. When you cancel a tax, it's always certain that that income won't be, when something increases, you always have the risk of some less erosion. So globally, if we look at the situation on the income side, that concludes, we have one neutral item. But this time, for the wide crowds of people who have to buy fresh food every day, who buy drugs, who pay for communals, they're underpriced; and those who smoke, especially expensive foreign sugars, and those who drive passenger cars, will have to pay a little more. I think that's what's responsible, and that's why we keep what we need, and that key center and the first goal of our economic policy, that's stability. That concludes and, eventually, if you have any questions, I would like to answer some technical questions, but I sincerely hope that you will vote on these changes in sales tax and excise duties. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15827	Mr. Minister, I thank you. Do the committee's rapporteurs want a word? (No). Does the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic, who expressed his opinion at the meeting of the Finance Committee? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15828	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, I really need to make my personal disagreement with a small number of present MPs in the hall, and I will not ask for quorum, there is no need for this occasion, but really assess you and the public of Serbia for which reasons for these most significant topics, which you covered by your opening presentation, from the basic principles of economic and financial policy for 2002, and even for 2003, since certain laws apply to a period of two years, and also to the budget of Serbia, I really see that there is no interest. Secondly, I must say, I took my opinion at the Committee's session. Here, I received a call for a board meeting this morning at nine o'clock, the Committee on Finance, which will discuss the draft budget system law, which is proposed under the emergency procedure, and at the session we had these three points of the agenda - means, amendments to the legislation on sales taxes, excise duties and budgets. Again, contrary to what we were saying, when we adopted the 2001 budget and when we promised, that is, when you promised that by the end of the year a law on the budgetary system, the tax system law, in line with federal regulations, and the common issue would be regulated at the level of the Federation and at the level of the Republic. Indeed, I am asking for an explanation - we have considered only these three laws in principle at the Committee's session. No amendment has been sent to the MPs, nor has the Committee considered any amendment, nor have we had the opportunity to see them. We received a report from the Committee on Excise Law Amendments, which reads: "The Committee, with the majority of votes, with two abstentions, accepted the bill in principle and in particular and decided to propose to the National Assembly to adopt it. "I don't know if we've only accepted in principle either the law as a whole, or those amendments that are now being submitted, at this point, or are they submitted so far, will not be discussed at committee meetings? (Kadomir Jovanovic, from the post: And how was it so far? ) So far, we have considered amendments. But then it doesn't have to stand - in particular, to stand that he accepted in principle, to open the debate. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act, I think it took nine months to correct what we proposed when we adopted the previous amendments in March; at that time we proposed and put on a number of amendments, while at that point, food products were free of sales taxes. I know we were looking for these famous eggs from the manufacturer, both at the market and at the shops, and it was an initiative from that association. I don't understand why fresh and frozen meat and other meat processing are now not free of sales taxes. Probably because there's more consumption on that plan, because it really doesn't make sense to sell to someone without taxes meat with a bone from a freezer, and to a child who buys a sausage or some breakfast pie to be burdened with sales taxes. I don't think that's gonna improve the meat processing industry. Then point 2. - the medicines listed in the list of prescriptions and the burden of medical insurance. I think this is a very important point, given that at this point, the largest number of medicines on the list are prescribed by doctors, but you can't get those drugs, you have to buy them first, and then you have to refund them. And what it means -- you'll pay sales tax, and what the state is going to do -- it's going to refund you, without the sales tax. And even worse, after a shortened list of medicines, citizens are forced to buy more and more medicines themselves and thus they will continue to pay sales taxes. I think there's a good way to explain this and to specify it through a regulation here that the minister is obliged to specify. With regard to municipal services, I think this reduction in sales taxes may partially affect the improvement of standards, but because of price increases, it will not contribute much to that improvement. In my opinion, the total excise burden is 8.66 billion dinars, and the discharge is based on the turnover rate of 3.4 billion. I don't know if I've added it right, I'm going to add it to the budget, but I don't think these effects are in one balance. And finally, I think with these new excise duties, if there is no increase in the price of oil and oil products, then they're right private merchants at private gas stations, when they find that the price of oil at this point is real by 20 to 25% higher, that's what's supposed to be, and I thank you for finally releasing the excise duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15829	Do MPs want a word? He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic, representative of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15830	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, unlike most of the MPs who represent the government here, and unlike the heads of the parliamentary groups, who represent the government here, I have the need to participate in the work of this session, and the need to state the views of the Serbian Radical Party, which are naturally opposed to the views of the government. And in the case of bad solutions, I'm going to try to make an additional argument to convince you that it's not all like the Government's intensive, media campaign is trying to present in public to citizens who are not living in Serbia, so they don't know how to live in Serbia. We've heard the government's report here, of course, and I don't suppose it's even called that. I suppose not only the finance minister is authorized to report on the government's work in the past year, but to remind you, Mrs. Micic, by taking over the more beautiful part of the presidency in the National Assembly, you also took over the uglier part that your predecessor and you won't even get any rest, you're not moving at all, you're not even trying to move. Namely, pursuant to Article 214. Rule 2 has already been the time for the government to report its work to us. It does so on its own initiative, at the request of the National Assembly, but mandatory once a year. At the same time, the government is not even telling us what would happen to the budget that we adopted and that Serbia was ruling on this year, but rather not to talk us out of what happened to the 2000 budget. We had a bombed-out session in July, May, where we were supposed to meet all the crime committed until you came to power, and here's the deadline for the final bill for 2001, and we're not discussing the final bill for 2000. No apology by the opposition can be accepted by the government if the opposition's MPs are left with less than 24 hours to read the draft budget. There is no democracy, there is no reform, and none of you will be able to say that the situation in the country is normal. If it's not normal, tell us what's not normal, what's abnormally happened for the government to come out after St. Nicholas with the draft budget law, which he insists is discussed the next day. How long has the government been doing this draft budget, and how does the government appreciate itself? Could she have done it in a day? The vast ministries, the huge apparatus and how the government values itself; it leaves itself with a deadline to make a draft budget bill in the time when it suits it, and it doesn't appreciate us at all and gives us one day. The government doesn't appreciate us that much, and that's what you're helping her, ma'am, to read our amendments and deliver a report to them. Because it's a transparent government, a government that does everything in public. What it looks like in front of the public, let's see a little bit of this bill. During the year, the prices of certain products increased enormously. So much so that just putting them on the list of untaxed products does not make it any easier for the citizens of Serbia. Let's start with the meds, and I think that's what most of the population is interested in. I assume that after 55 years of life, there is no citizen of Serbia who at least one drug does not use every day, according to therapy. If "Nifelate" is 1.2 marks, it's 2.5 now. Which will mean 20% of the tax on sales, if it's even on the list. If he's on the list at all, then the question is whether he's even in the drugstores where they give you the goods, prescription drugs, because that list has been shortened twice this year, brought to the most possible level and drugs from the highest possible level for patients who bring in prescriptions. In the same pharmacy there are for patients who have money. Do the survey, but don't let Beba Popovic do this to you, but conduct a human survey of how many Serbian citizens receive prescription drugs and how many they buy from those lists of medicines that are approved for non-payment citizens, except for participation. You'll see that someone is trading these drugs, and if they're reporting to you, Mr. Minsiter, that the drugs they gave to the citizens on prescription, they're lying to you. Perhaps you spend a little time in Serbia, so you can't feel it. Ask at least these MPs living in Serbia to honestly tell you how many of these medicines Serbian citizens are getting, and you from the budget I assume you're giving out money for them. All who tasked Serbia abroad convinced Serbian citizens that they had received the most favourable loans possible and that no one could get them anymore, only Serbia. It started from Tito to today, and that's why we're too in charge, and that's why these credits you're taking back our grandkids. Anyone who takes credit enters a relationship that will burden the citizens of Serbia. You are covering Serbia's budget with loans, donations, even the funds of the Refugee Commissioner. Where are the funds that are created budgetally, and that's where you've created the budget deficit, so you say, we'll fill it with privatisation. It's a one-time income. We'll fill it with extra profit tax; and that's one-time income. Then what are you going to invent this year for next year as a one-time income? I expect you to fund the state from permanent sources of income, which will be known to the citizens of Serbia before the year comes, which will be known to the economy before the year comes. I do not accept the statement of the finance minister here as an explanation of economic policy for next year. First, he was not serious about this speaker, and then I expect it to be the point of the agenda at the very least, because someone has to prove to me how Serbia is now introducing a federal tax into its republican budget. Is this what someone is planning now for Serbia to finance the Yugoslav Army? You either have a federal state or you don't have a federal state. Either you're DOS in power in the federal state or you're not. Tell us there is no more federal state, no more federal budget, no more federal army, but this will now be the army of the Republic of Serbia. Who are you to officially tell me now that there is no Federal Republic of Yugoslavia? Are you meeting all the agreements with Milo Djukanovic while you were in the opposition? Don't turn me off from these serious issues. That's what we'll talk about later. Yeah, you're not gonna hit Yugoslavia with a coup. You'll have to legalize it somewhere, gentlemen, and I'd ask you not to throw it at me because I don't tend to argue with those who get it, just stick the label they deserve. What does it mean - freeing fresh meat (in a frozen or fresh state) of sales tax? Do you even know how much meat prices have gone up? Ask C-market director if he can sell that meat at all. What does it mean that meat processing isn't free of sales taxes? What's in them? So and meat. You have an input that affects the price of the product. And now the slaughterhouses and the meat industries will support themselves from the processed, as the dairy used to support different types of cheeses and other by-products throughout the years. And so you'll get two categories of people -- one half of the citizens who are legally forbidden to eat meat from another half that can't buy meat. You've contributed to increasing the number of citizens who can't buy meat. It will be a shame for many citizens to buy 50 grams of meat, so they will turn to pate because it is not a shame to them. And now charge for that pâté tax traffic. Interestingly, the minister explained to the minister that the introduction of the gas tax would not affect the wider layers of the population, that the richer they drive the car on gasoline. And we know all the luxury diesel cars are driven by rich people. Besides, the farmer will bring the goods to the market in an old car. And that price will be put into the price of its goods at the market, and the price of the goods at the market forms in five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15831	There is a word from the SPS parliamentary group representative Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15832	Dear gentlemen, honourable MPs, we are at the end of the fiscal, business and calendar year, which has been marked by various events. I think there's a cosmetic scam in front of us - I mean the excise tax law and the traffic tax law. To take this seriously, we need to say some facts; I think the minister himself admitted in his introductory statement that industrial production in Serbia is zero, and the statisticians said it was lower by 28%. If we consider these two regulations, we can see that where it comes to fresh food, fruit and vegetables, or meat and fresh eggs, we have some production, while all of this is left -- imports new load. And we're still going to have a price increase because of the alternations. And as for cigarettes, we'll have some price hikes again. When I mentioned the price hike, I was referring to a huge increase in the price of municipal and infrastructure services. Only the price of electricity has increased by 3 to 5 times. Take the average household -- how much it paid for electricity last year, and how much now on the new account it got a few days ago. We used to say that you don't need to tax meat, meat processing, etc., and now you want to show things here like they've recorded some achievements. You're alleging that it improves the state of the budget. The situation in the budget cannot be improved when industrial production is in decline, when we also have an unfavourable situation and as far as the work of our peasants is concerned. It is said that there was 20% growth and that was the only source of income. It's something that fixed the state of the economy. Today, when we talk about improving the standard of living, the corresponding increases that are predicted will not significantly reflect the improvement of this standard, because we have already come to an extent that a large part of the population cannot buy as easily as fresh meat without speaking to other kinds of food, fruit, vegetables, etc. I think our standard of living has dropped a lot. Besides, we'll see what our real situation is when we end the final account. Now we can count on some privatisation funds, and when those sources run dry. It's said there's no risk. And there are risks, especially for the average household, when it comes to devaluation. And that devaluation is pricey and significantly affecting price increases in various areas. Therefore, it cannot be said that there was no devaluation. Because if something was worth 10 marks last year, now it costs 20 marks-- 25 marks. So, it's significantly increased the price of a lot of products and you have to admit it. A little bit of what the public admits can't find out on television because I can't do on TV, we can't do on TV, so we can't tell the public any of this, except for this pay phone. I think we should talk about facts. And the facts say that we are not yet an attractive area for investment. As for average salaries, they are said to be about 200 marks. And when it comes to 300 marks, then you need to know that there's a fee for a warm meal. In fact, if all of this is realistically expressed, then we come to the conclusion that the net salary is only 150 marks. Therefore, we must admit some facts realistically. Of course, in the end this will not help any more of the facts. Last year we warned of some facts, and this refers to a solid residential building. We've talked about solidarity - housing here many times, we've all had significant amendments to that area. She stopped. It's said here that we'll have the opportunity to borrow for residential construction, and I ask who? Do these foreign banks that are so-called domestic banks have to deposit five million dollars, and no funds from abroad guarantee what they're doing here? So when we compare some facts and go back to one basic, to economic growth -- we are still at some stage of donations, industrial production has fallen significantly and everyone, serious economic analysts, warns. These days in a major part of Serbia's economy, however, there have been havarian power outages, resulting in damages that can be measured by millions of marks as they have suffered high furnaces, as well as colds. Gentlemen, let me warn you that when you talk about growth, you need to talk a little bit and fall in some areas. In particular, when you talk about amending the Law on Excises and Taxes on Transport, you talk more about everything else than the subject matter and the point of this agenda. I have to say, this is going to increase market sales to a greater extent, running from regular flows, and we're sure to have even bigger extras than tobacco smugglers and cigarette smugglers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15833	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15834	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remind you that the points of the agenda that we are discussing are, in fact, amendments and additions to the Transport Tax Act, i.e. the Excise Act. We can talk about other topics, but not from this place. As for the budget, we will be in the mood to hear tomorrow from the opposition debate on that agenda point and then we will be able to compare the arguments we made in March of the month during the debate on the 2001 Budget Law. We'll be able to compare it to the Budget Law for 2000. The time intervals at which we convened and organised sessions, the time it took to adopt, say, the 2000 budget and to discuss 800 amendments, we'll be able to compare everything. I think it's important to use the facts, which so far from my colleagues' political motives did not. When we talk about amendments to the Transport Tax Act, we are actually talking about the first public concession of power to the part of our society that has suffered the most in the past 10 - 11 years. It is not true that the republican government formed by the DOS parliamentary group, the government that burdened our society with sales taxes, for example, on fresh foods: meat and eggs. In your regime, these groceries were loaded with 15% tax. In our case, that tax was 20%, and we made it clear that after nine months, through the draft budget law for 2002, we would be able to completely free from the payment of sales taxes on these products and thus reduce 20% in the first effect of the price of that product, and I believe that it will be lower because we still have prices forming through calculations and do not believe in the stability of the economic system. As far as the Excise Act is concerned, I also have to tell you that we are approaching some European standard, just like those positive drug lists. There is not a single company of Uranium on the list of medicines that the state pays for 400 factors. Our positive list of medicines contained 400 different medical medications, which in themselves were difficult for citizens, but at the same time made budget, normal functioning difficult. We need to adapt to modern life, stop potentiating the social role of the state and pass on responsibility to the citizens and society that we will allow to live from our work. As regards these objections regarding amendments to the Excise Act, it is clear that this additional burden is placed on those segments that in themselves can withstand such a thing. Here, first of all, we think of smokers and that in one, however, correct way. So some European standard is 57% of the price, it's actually giving that goes into the fiscal sector. That hasn't been achieved with us yet. I think we're closest to import cigarettes in class "A". Of course, the state respects the needs of our society at the same time and, to the extent possible, makes it easier for less-quality cigarettes from Groups B and C. As for the parallel effects of the economic policy that was conducted in the previous year, with the results of the economic policy that was led in the previous decade, I think it is not wise to enter into that kind of analysis because the circumstances in which we operate are very different. If it reaches for that kind of argument, then it has to be done in a correct way. Some measures in that system of values are unchanged. Whether this is about December 2001 or December 1999, the consumer basket was composed in the same way and then and today, with 2.5 net earnings needed for the consumer basket and today 1.75. That's why I don't want to demean anyone who's created economic policy at the time. I just want to tell you that it's not a good weapon in the criticism of our economic measures. I think it's clear that we need to talk openly about the budget, that we need to see what these remarks are. But at the same time, you can't expect us to break the law and that because of the gallanty of MPs who don't want to participate in the work of the assembly bodies, we transfer the debate to parliament in a way that would force us into a position to exceed 31. December 12th, which is D day. It is clear that because of the large legislative activities in parliament, we have not been able to discuss the budget before and that there is no bad intention. You'll see for yourself, on specific examples. So, as far as sales tax is concerned, for the first time since the sales tax was introduced, we have abolished the sales tax in concrete situations and in a way precise by the amendments to the existing law. Our sales tax was 15%, 9% plus 3% for railways, 3% for federal taxes, etc. That was 15%. At this point, that's what you used to say, positive zero. I don't think the speculation that degrades the course of economic policy is correct by finding that some of the products in the meantime have been accumulated. It is true that they have accumulated, but someone from the economic price of the product could for the first time make some profit and charge the economic price of their work. That's not what you're talking about. It's forgotten. That's the essence of any market thinking. We can't exploit our society forever in the way that it's done in the past 10 years, again because of circumstances that don't require a lot of words, because I think everyone is well acquainted with it. So the state takes care of the economy. A great relief is being introduced by abolishing the sales tax. It is clear that good means are involved, and that at the same time these funds cannot be left to forget, but the state register must be settled in a different way. It will be done through amendments to the Excise Act. Thus, through the additional financial burden of smokers and those using motor gasoline, i.e. specific diesel. We don't mean farmers here. On this side, they will be spared a careful agrarian policy and agrarian budget that is significantly different from that of 2001. It's bigger and more correct. I think it's clear that economic progress is undeniable and that, despite all the criticisms that we've been exposed to in the past year, just the finding that today we're abolishing the sales tax is actually talking about two facts. First, you were wrong when you considered our economic policy an economic policy that would completely degrade our economic system. It's not like that. Secondly, this provides the type of motivational injection that was needed by our economy in order for the agrarian with 28% growth in this year to go one step further in 2002. Be sure to do so, just as the industry from the status in which it is currently moving and in a healthy manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15835	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups report for word? No, I don't. ) National MP Tomislav Nikolic, replica? (Tomislav Nikolic, from place: Yes. The basis of the replica? (Tomislav Nikolic from the post: Attacking the parliamentary group and misreading. ) If recognition is in the former regime, only then, in what part of the text? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: No. Let me tell you from the replicated bench. ) You have to tell me the basis for the replica to get right to the replica. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Did you listen to what he said? ) He mentioned the former regime, because it is the right chairman to give the replica. If you have a quote that made you feel offended? So, an insult to the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15836	You're absolutely right, Mrs. Comic, for giving me your word. In fact, I do not deal with what predecessors say about how to live in Serbia. That's what Serbian citizens know. Here the predecessor said, justifying the passing of the law by emergency procedure and only one day for the MPs left to discuss it, he answered my remarks that it was too little time, that one parliamentary group should work on committees, that all stories would be finished, not that the Assembly would deal with the problems that would be dealt with by God on the board and then the Assembly would work much faster. Of course, it was all addressed to the SRS parliamentary group, but it was really wrong to point out that because we weren't on boards, and the Assembly was working on a very important law for two months and therefore the budget couldn't come in time, that there could be a normal debate, so it had to come at the end of the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are all witnesses of what the Assembly has been doing in the last two months: it has resolved disputes in the ruling majority and waited for quorum. That's what we've been doing for the last two months, replacing and setting up DOS officials, especially the president of the National Assembly, and waiting for the quorum, and sometimes with breaks of three to four days. It is not true that the SRS bears any part of the blame in any way because the budget comes on the agenda five days before the end of the regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15837	If none of the representatives of the parliamentary groups come forward for a word anymore, I would like to inform you that they are in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted by the SRS and SPS parliamentary groups, with the application that all the Members of the People will discuss against the adoption of the bill. The first is MP Veroljub Arsic, followed by MP Nebojsa Jovic. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Veroljub Arsic is not present, I ask that the quorum be established. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. He is not present, the word has a People's MP, Nebojsa Jovic. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15838	I know you're very interested in the budget debate, but you can either execute or meet basic requirements. Call those MPs who have to have lunch at 12:00, invite MPs who prefer to sit outside than sit in the hall, provide at least an electronic system number of 126, a fictitious quorum, so the Assembly can continue to work. I find the Assembly has no quorum and cannot work until 126 MPs are provided in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15839	People's MP Tomislav Nikolic is seeking to determine the quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to establish a quorum for work and ask all present Members of Parliament to place their identification card. I realize we don't have a quorum. I'm taking a break until 15.00 hours. Please be in the O.R. at 3:00. Just to let you know that the Justice and Administration Committee will be held at 1400 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15840	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to determine if we have a quorum to continue the session. I figure we've got a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a joint principled search of the application for a word in writing, submitted by the parliamentary groups of the SPS and the SRS. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15841	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, after a little over a half a year, you come slowly to what we told you when there was a proposal for a traffic tax code on the agenda. I agree that meat, fruit and vegetables and certain medicines should be released from sales taxes, but not on a certain deadline, but on a permanent basis. The SRS has even submitted amendments to ensure that meat, fruit and vegetables that are exempt from sales tax are exclusively domestic production. As far as your intentions are concerned, I think it's just marketing, because it's not the season of consumption of that kind of product. So now meat sales are reduced to about ten percent of the quantities spent over the summer. By the way, I'm guessing there's going to be some new changes in the law in the spring. As far as fruits and vegetables are concerned, I don't even believe that out of the total quantities sold, only 10 percent of the tax is paid, so I believe this bill is exclusively marketing to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15842	The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Jovic, followed by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15843	Dear People's MPs, the adoption of a new law on sales tax at the end of March 2001, which came into force on 1 April, said we are entering into tax system reform and the need for a fairer approach by the taxpayer from the point of view of his economic power. The SPS parliamentary group also claimed that the previous law was much better, that the proposed law was much more rigorous. In this regard, in the sense of Article 11 of the proposed law, we asked for certain products to be released from tax on sales, such as: edible oil and fat, textbooks for basic, secondary, higher and higher education, medicines and medical resources, orthopaedic aids, products for human and animal nutrition. However, at that moment from the government of the Republic of Serbia and fellow MPs, we did not come to an understanding and such a law was passed and it came into force, as I said, on April 1st 2001. The new bill, it says in the reasons for the adoption, provided the proposed solutions for planning revenues in the Republic's budget, and the grey economy has been significantly reduced. If the grey economy is significantly reduced, then I ask why did DOS MPs not adopt a survey committee to determine the volume of production and transport of oil derivatives? It would prove that the gray economy was reduced, not to say and almost completely eradicated. However, I would like to say a few words about the draft law on amendments to the Transport Tax Act. From the proposed solutions, within the meaning of Article 3(1), I support the whole point of point 1 where the sales tax on products is not paid on fresh, i.e. frozen fruit and vegetables, fresh, or frozen meat and fish, and fresh eggs. I just have a problem with the explanation. And then it was known that sales tax was not paid by natural persons, i.e. individual agricultural producers who are on the market, on the market, so that at that time the tax treatment of the sellers of food products, legal entities and entrepreneurs could be placed in the same position. That's not the point of the problem. The bottom line is that products that serve to feed the population are released, as it has been realized that in such a impoverished economy, where unemployment and unemployment are ruled out, only by abolishing the tax on the turnover of basic life supplies can increase the purchasing power of the population. In point 2 of the SPS Parliamentary Group proposes that, without exception, all medicines should be released, not only those listed in the list of medicines prescribed and issued on the burden of health insurance funds, in accordance with health insurance regulations, as well as blood and blood products, dialysis material, orthotic and prosthetic agents, medical products - surgically incorporated into the organism, as well as orthopaedic aids of all kinds. The SPS parliamentary group has proposed, through the amendment, that some other products be released from paying sales taxes, but we will talk about this when we come to debate in particular. Article 2 provides for a new rate of sales tax instead of 17% to be 20%. This is explained by the integration of the special sales tax rate for the financing of the Yugoslav Army of 3% and the now applicable republican sales tax of 17%. The federal military financing tax is limited and is foreseen by 31.12.2001. If at the level of the Republic now introduces and brings a 20% rate, I wonder how the military will finance it, if it is foreseen by the federal budget, are some of the powers being passed on to the Republic of Serbia? The proposal for a law supplementing the Excise Act provides for an increase in excise duty on oil derivatives, which is amended in Article 1 and proposes to increase to 18 dinars on motor gasoline from 10 dinars per litre and to increase to 10 dinars for oil derivatives from 7 dinars. Also, in Article 2. The bill increases excise duty on tobacco processing, to cigarettes of group "A" from 12 dinars per pack to 19 dinars, to cigarettes of Group "B" from five to 8.5 dinars and to cigarettes of group "C" from two to four dinars. As a reason for the adoption of this bill, it is said that the objective is to provide resources for the active management of the social and development policy of the Republic, while at the same time going to meet the European Union's demands on the level of fiscal burden on these products, but to a extent that will not result in an increase in the size of the grey economy. The proposed solutions are indeed unacceptable, because I believe that the increase in excise duty, in these conditions of engagement and the conditions of life in which our population lives, will have inconceivable consequences for the standard, because the increase in excise duty will cause an increase in the price of motor gasoline and diesel fuel, regardless of what is said in the explanation that this will not occur, but will be carried out in the context of existing prices. This increase in excise duty can only be replaced by the burden of price difference and in this respect there would be no increase in the price of motor gasoline. However, the price difference is still sufficient to cover the increase in excise duty, so in that sense I believe that there will be an increase in oil derivatives prices, and this will condition an increase in all other prices, which will increase the cost of life, resulting in an even higher drop in living standards. In the adoption of the Excise Act in March 2001, it was claimed that the proposed excise duty was less than that which was in force at that time, with all the accompanying fees; and then in the discussions we proved that the excise duty of 60 dunes which was proposed was significantly higher than at that point in the current excise duty. You then adopted that the excise duty is 10 dinars for motor gasoline, and this bill on amendments to the Excise Act, which you propose 18 dinars, the excise tax does not comply with the rise in prices to a small extent, if it is known that the price increase for the period November 2000 and November 2001 was 38.5%. These are the most recent data published on 4 December 2001, which appeared in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No. 67/2001. If the excise would be increased on the basis of the increase in prices to a small extent, it would be 13.85 dinars for motor gasoline and for oil derivatives 9.60. Also, I believe that the excise on cigarettes should be increased by the value of the price growth to a little 38.5%, which would be the excise on cigarettes: for the cigarettes of Group A 16.60 instead of the proposed 19 dinars; for the cigarettes of Group B 6.90 instead of 8.5 dinars and for the cigarettes of Group C 2,77 dinars instead of four dinars. The adoption of such proposed excise duties by the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, the fiscal burden on cigarettes would be less, which would affect citizens' standards, as buying cigarettes burdens citizens' budgets. The proposed solutions by the government will result in a significant increase in the fiscal burden on cigarettes, as it cannot be assumed that prices will not change, as the excise duty must be replaced by a price difference, but whether it is sufficient. So, there will inevitably be an increase in prices, and that will be seen by the citizens of Serbia as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15844	The word is Dragan Cholic, followed by Vladimir Garcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15845	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to the presentation of Minister Djelic, which is unbeatable in the phase of theory. Theory is one thing, practice is another. I have no idea why I'm optimistic about Minister Djelic. Where do you live, Mr. Djelic? Practice shows that the economic and economic situation is catastrophic. Practice shows that Serbia has never had worse power than this DOS-Mali. It is true, according to Minister Djelic, that a turnaround was made, but worse. It's getting much worse, the economic situation, as statistics show. It's your stats, because it doesn't show the way you see it. Serbia has made progress. In what, Mr. Minister? In misery and almost no purchasing power of its citizens. Inflation of 40%, and you planned about 30%. You'll have three donor conferences. It'll give money to the international community, and it'd be best if you had six donor conferences. Da, at the cost of Serbia's most vital national interests, as long as you try to show your grandmother through bleach a younger and more beautiful one. It's time to take down the truth firm from your DOS lie shop. Serbian citizens no longer hope for anything and expect no good from you. There's a chance in 2002 that she'll be transparent, with a lot of banners that you'll hopefully understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15846	The word is Vladimir Garcevic, followed by Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15847	Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, it seems that we need the same things that we do to make sure that someone finds out that something is wrong, even though we convinced him in March of the month, we wasted time here, to realize that some things are not going well, that they are not good and that they would accept the suggestion of the opposition MPs and, above all, the Socialist Party MPs. We persuaded you, Minister, in March of the month - no excise duties, no taxes on food products. You said no. And you know why you're proposing to change that now. I'll tell you for the following reasons: there's no inflow budget, because that stuff doesn't go through stores, so you're short on money, and when you're short on money, then you need to look where they can be found. If you had suggested that we change the sales tax for oil here, I would say that the minister is thinking, there is oil, it is more expensive and expensive than all the countries in the environment, so the minister wants us to get even with the European Union. On the other hand, if you had offered to remove the tax on clothing and shoes for children, I would say hello and say: The minister is thinking about the youth, how he will dress, how he will last, whether he will have shoes, etc. However, it has nothing to do with it. It is concluded - the minister is considering how to raise money and in this sense we can have no regrets; however, that you have suggested that what needs to be abolished in protecting citizens here, not to say equalising ourselves with what is in Europe, is 57%. As a citizen of Serbia, I don't care what's in Europe. I am interested in what the people of Serbia should live on, what to buy shoes from, what to buy clothes, shoes, textbooks and all that follows the youth. I expected the Serbian government to support the polling committee to determine cigarette smuggling. You know why he didn't? Increase the excise rate 10% and the one who smuggles has an extraordinary profit. Is that what the Serbian government wants, that the one who smuggles cigarettes has more to gain? Looks like that's what you're looking for. We could have incomes, we could have increased them, we had set up a survey board, we wanted to accept the truth: who trades cigarettes, which are the paths of movement, but we refused. Next, we will, he says, raise the price of oil excises. Don't convince us, it never happened, so it won't now, with oil prices going up and prices for other products. Whoever goes into it, as long as it's gonna be, it's gonna show time. Looking at what you're offering us in total, I think that the taxes and taxes that are coming down, but not enough, can be supported. But let's see: the egg is in the shop of 4.5 dinars, ministers, and the market is 4.5 dinars, and the shops are next to the market. So whether they're charging taxes or not, I don't know, but as a buyer, I know what it costs. I would like to say this: accept amendments that will require an extension of tax cuts, and the justification of all this is to allow tax-free textbooks, school supplies, to provide medicines without tax. So, are you... (Minister should listen to me if you want me to listen to you too)... Our people, citizens, heal only with these 320 medications, let's release the medications of everyone who is to be treated. On the other hand, to tell you the truth, last night, I was sitting on a celebration in society and there a nurse said that they had nothing at the children's ward. And I see, and I meet the citizens, and there are no 320 medications. You promised to be full of pharmacies. They're gone. Come on, let's go together, I can't find the cure I need in my town. I can find it in private pharmacies, at high prices. It's better this: less promises to the citizens, and more enable them to find what you promise. Then as a citizen, I will accept that you are both for transparency and for everything else. But you're chasing Europe, and you're treading the basic principles -- that this people survive. I saw, you had an agency in France where you worked, you might go there, maybe you'll have income there. And I'm here, and most of us are tied to Serbia, and we want to live here. It's easy to sell what you have, and then pack up, go and live well with those who sent you to do your job.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15848	The word is Mr. Goran Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act in Articles 1 and 2 of the Tax Act, 17% has been increased to 20%. It is obvious that there is an increase in the authority of the Republic Government. This indirectly indicates that they deny the existence of the federal government. Article 3 states that no meat tax is paid; but it is paid for meat processing. I will remind you that meat is the most expensive in Europe and that the price of meat in Europe is 10 marks per kilogram; if it is not sold that day, the price is much smaller the next day, about 8.5 marks. So it is obvious that, besides meat that is often imported and suspicious, quality is needed for other goods, such as personal wardrobe, children's food, diapers, sugar and fat, reduce sales taxes. You know, nine months ago, we were saying that, in any case, taxes on orthopedic aids should be paid. The installation of an artificial hook costs about 3,000 marks. It was absurd during that period of time, why it happened. It's obvious that medicines that are on the positioning list, and they're very deficiting, especially for chronic patients, diabetics, as well as cardiologic patients, means anti-hypertists, can hardly be found, as well as betablockers. In any case, it is necessary to increase the list, not to express it in such a reduced way. Finally, at point 3, in addition to municipal services, electricity should also be released from the payment of sales taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15850	Thank you. He has the word Finance Minister Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15851	I want to point out two things. As for the crossing rate from 17 to 20%, there's no interference or any anti-constitutional matter. There no one touches Yugoslavia, simply, especially the sales tax that the SRJ had was itself constitutionally problematic, because according to the SRJ constitution only Serbia can introduce a sales tax. This time we return to the constitutional frameworks. Nothing more and nothing less. As for cigarettes, let me give you some data from the Federal Customs Administration: in 1995, legal imports of cigarettes amounted to 15 tonnes, 1996 -41 tonnes, 1997 - 52 tonnes, 1998 - 117 tonnes, 1999 - 582 tonnes, by June 2000, several hundred tonnes, and then 2,273 tonnes for the first 11 months of this year - 4.228 tonnes. If that's the task I came here for, it's the task.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15852	A representative of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15853	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remember when Minister Djelic first went out for a pay phone, he had ovations. We've barely continued the session since your outpouring of the Minister's promises, with a nice story. Now you've rewarded him with a round of applause, and you know what the minister's saying may sound nice, but in public he's making an impression. Our reality is different. Our ministers have a cover of optimism only when they appear in front of cameras or when one of them strays to a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, I really don't know what data customs are talking about, but that tobacco smuggling existed until DOS and that it exists during DOS, it's pretty clear and obvious. I don't know what the finance minister smokes. Does he smoke French cigarettes or buy cigarettes on traffickers? But, Mr. Minister, ask any smokers in this country whether the cigarettes they buy have an excise stamp or not. Those who have now entered the government, are buying to boost the budget, for a while until you find them again. But as many cigarettes as there were without a excise stamp without you, there are so many of them now. Don't be fooled by that data, and you yourself contributed to this regulation that deprived you of your income. You are not going to tell us why the tobacco regulation deprived of income that originally belonged to the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ, threw them away, one part to finance the occupation of Kosovo and Metohija, and the other part to finance the mafia that deals with tobacco smuggling in the Republic of Serbia. If there wasn't this mob and it wasn't under the protection of those in power, without any debate, we would have adopted a decision to form a committee of inquiry to determine whether or not there is a smuggling. Well, what better it can be for the government of the Republic of Serbia than to establish that there is no smuggling of tobacco, or, if there is, that the government of the Republic of Serbia did not participate, especially for individual members and especially for one member who is a link between Kosovo and Metohija and the Republic of Serbia. With further information, we learned that the 3% tax that has been federal so far has been problematic, transferred to the Republic tax, because, to God, it is not problematic in the Republic. I'm interested - where will the income of an additional 3%? Will we grant it to the SRJ for the financing of the Yugoslav Army, or will that 3%, as an additional income, into the budget of the Republic of Serbia? If the authorities didn't figure it out, I know very well who funded the Yugoslav Army, and I also know that there is an SRJ. While the SRJ exists, what is at the Federation level, (and thank God, the army is still at the level of the SRJ) must be financed, to provide original revenues at the Federation level. It's very simple. Why would the sales tax for the Yugoslav Army be an additional 3%, as if it could not be converted into another federal tax allowed by the Constitution? Why, ministers, free the frozen meat and fish from sales taxes, with fresh meat and fish, and do not release meat processing. Frozen fish come from imports. We don't have a domestic manufacturer who deals with this business. Frozen meat comes from imports and is mainly imported by the state. Rarely when an individual decides to import it, because meat has no passing at all, and the state -- only when it intervenes on the market because prices start to wild (mainly raised by traders rather than manufacturers). Why only two years ago were given tax reliefs for certain products, although we suggested it to you only a few months ago by amendments to this budget, which you still fill and where you have a major deficit. Why isn't it a decision that's not time-limited? There are budget rebalances, there are amendments and additions to the Budget Law, taxes are introduced, taxes are lifted. How do we know now that for two years we can free the tax, that is, whether there is seriousness in the management of the state, when the state does not know what is subject to taxes and what is not subject to? It's like something's going down and something's not going down for two years, and then it's going down. Where else is there, where it is so seriously run the fiscal policy of a country. We've heard from Mr. Minister today that the new government has entered the restructuring of large banks. Well, Mr. Minister, the kind of restructuring of large banks is not remembered in the world. People's MPs who get paid through the great state Beobank can't take the salary anymore, because you put your paw on it, you close that bank too. I understand how you do it, politically involved and unwise. For example, when you arrest and extradite Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague, you count on many citizens of Serbia to say -- well, he deserved to go. When you close the bank to Bogoljub Karić, you count on many citizens to say, "Oh, he's rich in kittens and flies, so let them close the bank for him," Milosevic helped him. How to justify this closure of large banks, of which the economy lives and which are the owners of almost all businesses in the country. How do we justify now and the attack on the Vojvodjanska Banka, not to mention the banks that have disappeared, but practically, from the face of the earth. Or, an attack on someone in New Market. If it hadn't been for the Constitutional Court decision that annulled Governor Dinkic's decision, I wouldn't have found out how long Dinkic had already spread his claws and reached the bank in Novi Pazar. Why in the New Market? Because all the foreign exchanges that go from Kosovo to Metohija to Kosovo and Metohija go through Novi Pazar. That bank is one big hive for you, and you're just gonna pull the honey out of it. Why this big budget for next year? Why should the budget, without inflation in stamps, be 80% higher? Why are there so many holes in the budget? Come on, last year you somehow convinced us: money will arrive from abroad, donations will arrive; and in this year -- again a hole in the budget; again you say -- it will be known in a month or two how much money we will get from who or from which job. Is there any seriousness here? Why don't you deliver to us on one piece of paper what you did this year, which incomes were, in which tax branch we haven't achieved the expected results, on which traffic and what product we've hidden, let's see, that we know about where next year's impact is going to be. Like this, if someone imports an asphalt machine, you immediately transfer all the money there to work, for God's sake, the road, to pay off that machine of yours. If someone is producing a particular agricultural product close to you, expect tax changes, expect changes in the conditions for that branch in which that man works. If someone close to the tops of the government is smuggling tobacco, expect the tobacco to be out of control. Then you'll boast that it's better to charge excise and customs than it was back in the day. And then it's charged, but it's funded and it's war, and who knows what's not funded, these guys in customs know it. As soon as they know how little they charge, they know where the money went. I don't trust you, Mr. Minister, so that 5% of the tobacco that passes without excise or customs, I don't believe you know where it is. If it's only imported to a dozen border crossings in the country, and it's going into huge trunks, that's not what people wear on their backs, so to speak, some people pass through the woods and pass through. It's compositions and compositions. Make it 17%, I don't believe you, half still go, and half you release by going through Kosovo and Metohija; you go papers, you close papers and the goods are there. There's still no rule in the country. I'm not saying it's the Ministry of Finance that's wrong. It sees that what's collected is evenly distributed. If you think the budget is planned and deficited, and it has a constant budget reserve... (President: Time, Mr. Nikolic. I'm finishing... to be in that budget reserve the amount that once, just two years ago was the total amount of the budget, then something is wrong in this country. Then something doesn't go as you tell us and promise. The very fact that you have to talk a lot and promise a lot is a sign that in this land, things aren't going well. When things don't go well, when you've led to the heat, when the quorum today is waiting to vote the budget, when we're going to wait for it all these days, then it's time for politics to get involved in the profession that you're working on and a lot of people in the government. Politics says it's time for early and early elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15854	The word has a finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15855	Only two or three facts: as far as the military is concerned, of course, funds were provided for the Yugoslav Army in the Federation budget. Of course, all the consultations have been carried out and all the figures are consistent with the federal level. We've come to a new division -- these two taxes that divide between the republican and federal levels, that's a new division. As for sales taxes, 25% of sales taxes, if you adopt this budget, SRJ will go, and 20% excise will go SRJ. If we look at what's been going on in that section for the last few years, we can see well that there were actually no rules at the time and there was no transparency or agreement. The formal division, for example, of excise duties that existed, between federal and republican levels, was 40% for the federal level and 60% for the Republic. However, the Republic then introduced mainly various taxes and taxes, which were in fact de facto excise, since it was charged on excise products; it did not call them excise to share them with the Federation. Of course, when the tax reform took place in April, the basis was expanded from April to today, to the moment when and if you vote this budget, the division would be 94% for the Republic and 6% for the Federation. We simply took over the recalculated real base of what is excise and discussed what resources are necessary for the Republic, which for the SRJ. The proposed and agreed new division, between the federal and the republican levels, comes from one economic logic, which is, if you look at the more precise statistics this time, that for the first time we have new payment accounts that are sufficiently disbanded, that we can see where, how much and on which line is paid and for which product, which was not the situation before. Believe me, for years, even for whoever wanted it, it was not possible to find out how much oil, oil derivatives, cigarettes and other products were imported. It was simply in one single account. Of course, in order for us to know what's going on at our borders and on our market, we have since May of this year introduced, here to show you, a whole list of accounts. As far as excise duty is concerned, they sort all accounts by product types this time. This not only helps to fight smuggling, because then we can determine what happens every month in cigarettes classes, imports and domestic cigarettes, but also allows to see what is import and what is domestic. Now I'm going back to SRJ and Serbia. It was established that, on average, 20% of the excise duty was charged on import products and logic required that, as far as the federal level is concerned, their share be at least 20%, so that the federal administration of customs and federal level has sufficient incentive to fight tobacco smuggling, coffee and all these excise products being imported. That's what we agreed to. So, this time, there are real, cleaner, transparent arrangements in the division, not introducing, hiding, some sublegal acts that deny one level of government. That's what I wanted to mention. As for the figures, in the case of implementation of the 2001 budget, I again apologize for the short deadlines, which are not suitable for a single parliamentary system, as regards the adoption of the budget, but I thank you for voting, so that we have a budget by the end of the year. On page 5 of Serbia's budget, you have a budget structure on the dissipated side. So you have what happened this year and the percentage for the last 15 days, how long will it take? We've put in this argument the income side, but I'm taking the obligation to do it for you by tomorrow -- how many different elements are collected on the income side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15856	Thank you. The word is Mr. Marco Giulibrk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15857	Dear MPs, the expert government of Serbia continues to pass unconstitutional, incomplete and confusing laws. Although Minister Djelic tried to explain that the introduction of taxes and the unification of 17% of sales taxes and 3% for the needs of the Yugoslav Army is in accordance with the law, we cannot accept it. It's just that maybe someone from DOS's office should have been defined -- what are we supposed to do with Yugoslavia? Negotiations are being held these days over the Yugoslav Federation. Neither Montenegro wants to speak out in what sense negotiations are being held, nor does the Serbian side want to make a statement on what principles we are on. It turns out that the mediator in these negotiations, Javier Solana, is the most likely for this Yugoslavia. Looking at this Article 1 and Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act, we can ask ourselves - is this the unification of taxes against the Yugoslav Federation, also the topical talks, and the attack on the Yugoslav military? I don't think Minister Djelic has fully explained it to us. However, if we bear in mind that in April we adopted a complete tax package of laws, we then said that he did not have all the functions that a single fiscal policy should have. We can accept Minister Djelic's statement that this tax package of laws has achieved only one function, which is that he has managed to raise the necessary funds for Serbia's budget. However, if we talk about other fiscal policy measures, which is an incentive to develop after consumption, I don't think this fiscal policy has done it. We expected, which is also by the Rules of Procedure, that the government would come out before the end of the year with one clear analysis - what was done in these years. Some things have been done, some things are not good. It would be good if a complete plan had been put in front of the Serbian Parliament - what was done, so to say: this tax system is somewhat fine, this system is not, which the Government is trying to regulate in this bill, but it is insufficiently comprehensive and I think it is more of a "throwing dust in the eyes" to us, to the MPs and to the public, before the adoption of the budget law, rather than some fiscal discharge or promotion of exports. I'll give you just one example -- we, as an SPS, suggested that the service tax be 10%. 20 percent is accepted here. What happens -- many workshops and services, and even large social enterprises, avoid paying this tax. In what way -- simply, there have been many workshops and services closed, there have been layoffs of workers or unregistered workers, but in large systems in various ways, contracts on technical and business co-operation, purchase contracts, taxes on services are avoided and these are as if they were their own sales contracts. I think we all care that tax policy also has an incentive to develop, and we can document that by the downturn in traffic and services, as well as manufacturing products. Also, there was a decline in both processing and industrial production. Unfortunately, the government has no hearing that with fiscal policy it gives little incentive to producers and industrial production above all. Then, we can ask Minister Djelic, who is unfortunately not here -- in connection with excise duties, it is said that there will be an 8-billion-dollar income, and that it will not affect a permanent purchase or retail price. It would be good for Minister Djelic to explain to us whose harm this difference in excise duties will be achieved if it is not broken to the end consumer? Also, we believe that the government should have made a little wider list of these products, in Article 3, which are exempt from service taxes, because it is certain that further discharge, first of all, would have been made, by consumers, and also, would have given rise to production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15858	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15859	Ladies and gentlemen, listening to the Minister's moment, I've come to say, "Glory to us." He says the country has become very attractive to foreign investment, that it is the most successful of all transition countries, that wages are really growing, that inflation will be less than 20%, and that economic growth continues. Then I came to ask the minister - why does no one in this country notice? And here, these guys in Nis only notice that it's expensive gas, that it collects remote heating (that instead of 500 dinars a month), for a 50 square-story apartment, it costs 900 dinars a month, that it collects water by 30% in the first quarter, and in each next for another 10%, to collect municipal services, and that for the consumer basket it should give almost two full salaries; then, that we are expected soon to receive a TV subscription, that soon many will be out of work and that soon many will not have bread. Since the minister says -- some sales taxes are being reduced in part, a little excise is only cosmetics. What he's saying -- that much higher excise duty on tobacco and tobacco products -- would be what a charge would be if it weren't for the director of the federal administration of customs duties, Mr. Begovic, who's probably here with some of them, and we'll talk about it a little later.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15860	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15861	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected journalists, today is the second day of the greatest Christian glory in Serbia, a happy celebration for all who celebrate St. Nicholas (all Baralici, wherever they are). It is a shame that today you have made it impossible for a large number of people, including a large number of MPs, to sit with their guests and receive those who are their favorites. You've scheduled this session by way of the Rules of Procedure, you claim it's not an emergency procedure, and in each of the acts we adopt, it says on the back that the acts are adopted by an emergency procedure. You claim it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, as well as a lot of other things you claim to be. However, no matter how much you claim and no matter how hard you try to explain that things are the way you show them, I suggest you buy a big candle, and under the icon of St. Nicholas you burn it, because it's a saint who helps shipwrecks. You'll need that service quickly, but it won't help you. (President: Mr. Baralic, how about you get back on the subject? I'm surprised you haven't warned me yet. Two draft laws are before you today - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Excises and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act. I'd like to remind you that when I adopt this bill a few months ago, I submitted an amendment not to pay excise oil for lighting and salt for food. At that time, I was saying, and today I also claim that they have a symbolic character in the Serbian people, along with bread, and that since the time of the boss Mladen Milovanovic, president of the first Serbian council of Karadjordje's time, no one in Serbia has taken action to do so. I'm glad you've seen a year later a mistake and you're correcting this, but you're not correcting it in a way that would be appropriate. In Article 4. The draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act is said: "Accision on salt for food is not paid for 2002 and 2003". It's supposed to stand-in. It is the right decision and it is the right answer that you expect from the citizens of Serbia. As for cigarettes, gentlemen, already several fellow Members of the People's Parliament have spoken today - will it really happen that by increasing excise duties on the most expensive cigarettes allow once, though smaller, the number of controlled smugglers that apparently someone here is lurking and watching, in this country, to reduce profits on this substitute, practically, by the law on large numbers, which has been tolerated so far. We're witnessing these days against the law advertising of cigarettes on national television, the campaign started on all TVs, and then in the next phase, it went to commercials, "It's on the street, and it's not a newspaper." Dear gentlemen, the law has regulated that cigarettes cannot be advertised in this way. Of course we know that this is about a concession from one of the leaders who controls this cigarette that is paid in this way, I believe, for what it does in the parliament of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As for the amendment and addition of the Transport Tax Act, I will comment on Article 1, as well as many colleagues: In the Transport Tax Act, ("Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No. In Article 10. percentage 17, Article 22/2001 is replaced by a percentage of 20". And the ignorant understand what this is all about. We've received an explanation from Mr. Minister that this way, the rate of a special federal sales tax is integrated into a total tax that is now about 20%. It's just, there's no explanation, and we don't have a guarantee that these funds are going to be spent. Whether these funds will really come to users, i.e. the Yugoslav Army, and whether this is one of the ways in which the special centre, called the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is controlled by the decomposition processes of the Yugoslav Army and the incapacitation of one of the most important state institutions for the country's defence preparations. The fact that you are in this way, it would be said elegantly, that the federal state and military tops the means necessary for the existence and army and for everything that the military is going with, proves in fact that you have a clear intention of, together with your same political counterparts from Montenegro and with Mr. Montgomery, who is chaired by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not only presides but has made you publicly declare it... (President: Mr Baralic, I ask you again to return to the agenda topic). That's the subject, Mrs. Micic. It is 3% of the tax, which further finances the needs of the Yugoslav Army. It's a show of elemental mistrust in the military, in that institution and the people who work there, and the irrefutable opposition of the federal state. In Article 3, paragraph 2, you also state the days of medicines you will not collect a 20% sales tax. It would really be precious if you had done this to a secretary if this were about all the medicines that are in circulation in Serbia, because Serbia is the only country in Europe that has introduced a drug tax. Unfortunately, that only applies to the drugs on the list. I will point out that this list has been reduced twice since you came to power, so that the number of medications, services and aids that are located on the so-called so-called so-called. a list of mandatory health care types now reduced to only 50. The bottom line is that health care funds will be released for 20% of the sales tax on medicines, but that citizens will continue to pay sales taxes on all those medicines that are not on the mandatory list. That's the point, and that's what you have to say, so you don't bring confusion amongst the citizens. The 3rd position of the same member - municipal services - cancels the 20% tax. It is abolished, gentlemen, but, as you know, so far it has been a moratorium; do you remember when the law was passed, it has been said that for 2001 the moratorium was introduced to these taxes. This means that you give Serbian citizens what they already have today, they do not already pay this tax. There'd be a lot more to say. I'm just saying that the Socialist Party of Serbia can't support either of these two laws regarding changes and additions, for the reasons that my colleagues presented, because it would be fairer to say that you are, as you like to say, a transparent declaration site here is the essence. And the essence is, blurring things; not transparency, as you like to point out daily. It would be good to admit that today's session is an illegal one, past the Rules of Procedure, that it is scheduled for a day for which it should not be scheduled and that obviously someone's special interest is the reason why it insists that these two laws be adopted in this way as the ultimate financial document in one country for the next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15862	There is a word from MP Branislav Blazic, and after him will be spoken by MP Joca Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15863	Ladies and gentlemen, the government has done most wrong, in my opinion, on health care. With these measures, the health situation has become even more complicated. We warned that two billion, as planned for 2001, were not enough to function in health care. It was then promised everything and everything - money from the World Bank, money from taxed medicines, which was introduced for the first time in Serbia, but it was seen that it was all insufficient because it was not going to improve the quality of treatment. Now we have another situation -- that the government is trying to take off the tax it introduced. But she only takes it off the positive list, from which half of the drugs are not in the pharmacy, so citizens, because they don't get the right medication, have to refund the funds and wait a few months for their money. Therefore, this move does not contribute to improving the situation with regard to the supply of medicines to citizens, and it would be fair if the government abolished that measure and allowed all transportable medicines to be fully freed. Another additional story about it -- drugs are up to 30% in over a year, on average. It's something you certainly can't handle such a difficult economic situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15864	The word is made by MP Joca Arsic. The remaining time of the SPS parliamentary group is 15 minutes, they have two registered debaters. After Mr. Joce Arsic, the word has been given by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. (To throw questions from the parliamentary benches -- how much time is available to the Serbian Radical Party, the president said the party is available for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15865	Dear People's MPs, we have before us, as has been repeated several times, at the debate of two draft laws, the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act and the draft law on amendments to the Transport Tax Act. Although this has already been repeated several times, I must repeat that these two legislative projects are also on the agenda today past the Rules of Procedure, thus forcing most of them to hold a session outside the Rules of Procedure. But what's there is, the laws are ahead of us and there are a few things that need to be said about them. The Excise Act provides for an increase in excise duties and as regards tobacco and products of oil and petroleum products. There were significant increases compared to the increase that followed a few days or weeks ago, as it was already done with the rise in the price of gasoline. If these increases were in line with the cost of living to a little bit, as the harmonisation and increase of excise duties is predicted, we could also accept this because this is what, as a cost and as an inflation, is important for harmonisation, so that there is no disturbance in budget revenues. However, as the budget is projected by nearly 80% of the increase from the previous year, it is normal that these increases must also be compensated from somewhere. The best way, as we've seen, is to increase excise duties from these proposed laws, not to talk about other increases and takings that we'll see in the budget debate. Here it defends that these increases are justified because, as is said, they are placed under better control of excise duties and imports of cigarettes, primarily from abroad, or from other parts of our territory, such as Kosovo or Montenegro. If the control is increased and, as the minister said, transparently, is about 4.200,000 tonnes of total under control and traffic in this year (which is compared to the previous period over double or compared to the year preceding it four times over), I do not understand the reason that now it is necessary to increase the excise duty, if so much tobacco is placed under control in traffic in our Republic, provided that every pack of cigarettes, since it is supposed to be for 20 cigarettes, has an excise stamp and that the excise duty has been charged, in which many before me have expressed the suspicion that it is fully justified. It's about this part of the excise. We, as the SPS, have suggested that this be coordinated with the rise in cost growth in a small way and thus perform the coordination and increase of these excise duties, as regards oil and tobacco. As far as sales tax is concerned, I'm not talking about him being connected to that part that belonged to the federal state of 3% and that now stands at 20% and that some minimum exemptions have been given regarding certain products. The most important and important thing here is to say that meat, fruit and vegetables and fresh eggs are released. I think this is only part of what is important to the citizens of this country, and this explains the increase in the production of the slaughterhouse industry, and it will, for God's sake, be released by 20% of the taxes on raw meat, or on the slaughtered, and only on meat. It is forgotten that people buy other things from slaughtered pigs or junets, they are from insides (which are mostly bought by poor people), and raw bacon, which no one frees from the sales tax, leaves 20% for them, and from them can be a steppe, a replacement for oil, and that the preparation of crumbs for food, for those who do not know it. Therefore, it remained taxed with 20%. Not to mention the legs and other things that are byproducts. The meat is now being released, and we know what a rush it is to import frozen meat and who I remember is currently dealing with. Not to mention that out of traffic is certainly 80% out of control, for those we're supposed to release now, and we know who's doing all these jobs right now, and that the big combinations are out of work, and that the little slaughterhouses have taken this chance. Little slaughterhouses don't do processing. The processing deals only with large slaughterhouses, and products and processing are not exempt from sales taxes. If that were also tax-free, it could earn income from slaughterhouses; it could increase the slaughterhouse industry, improve the purchasing power of slaughterhouses, increase the livestock stock. What matters most is that this government has never thought of making parities that are most important for the production of meat and production of all these things. If the parities were right, we wouldn't have to intervene with 20% of the alleged release for what's one-quarter. Not to mention an example of cheese. The dairy makes 10% of the cheese. 90% is on the market, 90% is out of sales tax; we do not release these dairy farmers who are in current problems due to insufficiently priced milk and subsidies from the state, and that these are the best quality products under the protection of the state, under the protection of veterinary experts and inspections, they should certainly be free of sales taxes. To what's said here in medicine, I'd add only one thing -- we release 20% of the drug sales tax on drugs that are on the list. We help the fund, we don't help the end-users and the sick man. We're helping the state fund not to pay 20% of the sales tax for those medics on the list, and those on the list go to the pharmacy and go over the prescription, and if they're not in the pharmacy, then it's a criminal thing, to go to private pharmacies medicines that are on the list. One more thing -- an example of drugs that went off the list, such as "dilkoran", which was on the list up to six months ago, cost 8 to 10-12 dinars; gentlemen, now it's between 160 and 180 dinars, when it's off the list. It pays 20% of the sales tax. There, citizens are not freed because they are bound by a huge number of medicines to pay a 20% sales tax. Therefore, a sales tax should be abolished for all medicinal products that are for drug trafficking, whether they are state or private. Then you will also avoid hanging out between the fund and between hospitals and between health institutions, because there will be no such differences in sales tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15866	The word is Mr. Vitomir Plužarević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15867	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all you do in this assembly is terror to the majority, you've shown it at every moment in today's session. You're required to do that. We, the Serbian radicals, have pointed that out to you and we point. As long as you behave like this, people will tell you in the next election, which is in sight. Today's agenda is to rape the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. Everything Mr. Minister said today about this pay phone is uncovered, it's just a wish and a way to gain time, and that time flies. Did the MPs have to get ready for this session? The minister noted all details of paid pensions, children's supplements, paid wheat renovations of the EPS and salaries. The consumer basket as a rapper element was a creature. There's not a word about it. As for a stable dinar course without printing money, no one knows when it's going to happen, maybe tomorrow. I don't know if this 20% of sales taxes that are lifted on meat, medicines, communals will really improve that budget, because that 20% of the 20 has already been so upgraded this year in 2001 that this reduction will mean nothing. Serbia is introducing a 3 per cent federal tax on the military according to these proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15868	The word is Dragan Todorovic. The remaining time is seven minutes. After him, the word has Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15869	I thank you for warning me that I have seven minutes left to present. So today, we have had the opportunity to hear a lot about the budget law, and unfortunately little about the law on sales tax and the excise tax. Therefore, my discussion will also be a little bit more focused on what we could hear from Mr. Minister, so I gently warn you not to disturb me, since you have already not disturbed the minister in this regard. First of all, I would have to say that the material about these very important points of the agenda was delivered to us yesterday with one single goal, which is that MPs, mostly and primarily the opposition, are less able to prepare themselves for discussion and amendments to this bill. Also, since it was about the budget, I have to realize that we weren't in a position to see neither the final bill nor any document based on which we could estimate how people's money was spent last year. I must point out and remind the Honorable Minister that the tax reform that, as I recall, took effect on 1 April this year, was precisely with the same economic and political objectives as we could hear today. That's why I felt like rain today; that was about seven or eight months ago, then we listened to these same political goals, economic goals -- so, preserving stability, improving living standards, restructuring large businesses and continuing to engage in international flows -- and that after the tax reform of April 1st, there was nothing. If we look at just the fact that we can read today in the press that, according to research by some NGOs, two thirds of the population are just thanks to these tax reforms today in Serbia at the edge of poverty or below the edge of poverty, and that the social situation in Serbia today, in 2001, may be comparable only to the social situation in 1993, at a time of hyper-inflation, I must conclude that the DOS tax reform has experienced its fiasco since 1 April. As a confirmation of this, we have on the agenda today the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act; I would like to remind you, to remind you, that the MP group of the SPS had a clear view that the linear introduction of the sales tax of 20% on all products is absolutely unacceptable, which today turns out to be true. Why today, almost a year later, we are passing a bill on sales tax changes, where we respect the facts and requirements of the opposition that have been clearly shown - that not all should be taxed at a uniform rate. I have to remind you that we've been looking for a tax exemption from drugs, school supplies and basic life supplies, such as edible oil and salt. But at the time, you had no understanding of our demands, and now that social misery has reached the highest possible level, you have to reach out to methods that just reflect your desire for nothing else to save the government. I must also conclude that Mr. Minister said in his presentation on several occasions about the economic objectives for the next three years. As I recall, your pre-election promise was about calling a general emergency election within 12 months, six months, what was it, and now you're talking about some three years. Who, gentlemen, is afraid of making choices today? Does the SPS, maybe the Radical Party or DOS? So if we look at the improvement of the standard of living made by tax reform almost a year ago, it's clear that the absolute fiasco tax reform has experienced, I repeat, by who knows which time. The elimination of taxes on food is absolutely acceptable for us socialists. However, 20% of food traffic in stores to 1% was recorded due to the sales tax introduced on 1 April 2001. When it comes to medicines, the minister mentioned a very painful topic, which is literally a criminal topic -- pumping drugs from state pharmacies and spilling them into private pharmacies. We're absolutely in favour of questioning the situation on this matter. We know that there are a lot of people involved in this dirty work, and we have no intention of protecting anyone, no matter which stranger they belong to. So, gentlemen, if you'd like us to determine the truth, please, there's a lot to be revealed about this drug story. Also, I have to say, as a socialist, that we're advocating tax cuts from all drugs. I must remind you that the drugs were not taxed until your tax reform. Now, due to the inability of citizens to supply basic medications, you are proposing to remove the sales tax only for medicines from the positive list of the Republic Health Insurance Office. Why just on the positive list? To help that institution, not to help all people. There are people who need medication, these drugs are not on the positive list today. I know it very well from experience, because I've been in that office and I've been doing it. So, once again, to point out the Socialist Party's position -- we're in favour of abolishing the sales tax on all drugs. Also, I have to remind the public, and all of you are present, although we are getting smaller and smaller, that the introduction of taxes on transport to the public is exactly the idea of your tax reform, that we are now going back to the solutions that were provided for by the earlier legislation on sales tax, so that in another way your tax reform is being brought into a pointless situation. If we talk about the excise law, the minister pointed out on several occasions that the increase in excise duties will not affect the increase in fuel prices, that the money obtained in this way will be used to rebuild the roads and ask you -- for which time, gentlemen, are we increasing the price of petrol to restore roads? (President: Time. I'm sorry for the short overrun, just to finish the thought. I come from a middle where you can't normally drive through a car from a hole. It's especially present in suburban settlements. It is not only about local roads, it is about roads that are in the jurisdiction of maintaining the republican authorities. Just about cigarettes, I must point out that if your goal, gentlemen, is to determine the fact about the cigarette smuggling, you should not have voted to form a committee that would deal with establishing the truth about the smuggling of cigarettes. So all of your tax reform and all of your ideas about saving our economy are this way brought to the truth, unthinked exactly as we talked about when we convinced you that your tax reform from the beginning of this year was wrong. If you keep this up, God help us. Just to ask, perhaps the minister knows or wives of ministers know, in which stores it's much better to shop, because our wives can't get cheaper products, and you might see where they are, so tell us so we know how to do better.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15870	The word is Milorad Mircic, followed by Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15871	By abolishing the sales tax when it comes to kitchen salt, the government has clearly admitted that it was wrong, that it made a mistake, that it was reckless last time, when adopting a package of tax laws, it convinced us in the Assembly that it was the right move. You can interpret that as you will, but we Serbian radicals were right when we tried and through the amendments to correct this government mistake. As for the elimination of sales taxes when it comes to meat and fish, Mr. Minister, you said the right thing, statistics are not true when it comes to construction operations. And you haven't looked at the statistics on what part of Serbia's population is now in a situation where at least one daily meal has meat represented. What does that essentially mean? It basically means that the International Monetary Fund has forced you to exempt import products from sales taxes. It is illusory to argue that an increase in oil excise duties and oil derivatives will not cause price increases. How many times do you need to repeat yourself to make sure that an increase in prices or taxes in this case, the excise tax causes an automatic increase in retail prices. Don't experiment. Say, this is also seen through the budget, the International Monetary Fund is forcing you to strictly exercise control over tax laws and the Budget Law. You're here to do those administrative work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15872	He has the word National MP Lazar Marjanski, followed by Stevan Kesejić (the remaining time of the SRS is 17 minutes).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15873	A year ago, the minister said it was transparent. We of Vojvodina think-- come on, it will be, let's wait. But everything is exactly the same. We need to get the money out of our pockets and pay. The minister says there's no taxes on drugs. Transparent. The drug tax has been introduced. Now it reduces the taxes on medications, for drugs on the positive list. As far as I know, there are no drug taxes in Europe. What was transparent proved not to be. But there is one other thing. Here are the numbers, tons and tons of cigarettes. The problem is the same and the denominator is the same. In the past, that cigarette was shared by 150 people. Now they're dividing 5 minus 6. Same amount, only the money's bigger. We know that cigarettes are more expensive and they'll collect. But there's one other thing, in the budget, it's going to be about agriculture. Mr. Minister doesn't know what agriculture is, and he gave it so little for the agriculture budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15874	There is a word Mr. Stevan Kesejic, followed by Miroljub Veljkovic (not there, then Mr. Bozidar Vujic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15875	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS warned the DOS majority, when we discussed the Transport Tax Act and the Excise Law, that Serbian citizens would not endure these charges. We warned you, however, you were hard-core. Today you are passing a bill on amendments to the Transport Tax Act and you are talking about tax cuts in certain food products. You rely on and call for taxes to be reduced by individual farmers on markets and in the case of fresh meat, eggs, vegetables and fruit. However, other items are also sold on the gigs. First of all, basic products for the survival of citizens. These are: clothes, shoes, school supplies and everything else. That's why I think it's just an excuse for you relying on one such support in this law. Also, the Excise Act was passed for a certain reason. The American coke did not lay a golden egg to DOS and you had to resort to one non-popular method, which will later be felt by consumers, or all users, which is an increase in excise duties in oil derivatives, oil, gasoline, cigarettes and tobacco industries. This does not protect the domestic tobacco industry, but protects the government's monopolies. That's why the SRS doesn't accept such proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15876	He has the word National MP Bozidar Vujic, followed by Aleksandar Vukic (the remaining time 13 minutes).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's extremely irresponsible and it's completely unserious what this DOS government is trying to do right now. I understand that both New Year's and Christmas holidays are approaching, but these two legal projects on sales tax and excise duties, this DOS government, transparent, gave us as a colorful lie. If she really wanted it to be sales and excise taxes and to serve "in terms of the need for fairer access to the taxpayer from the point of view of his economic power", it says in the light of this law, then we would be discussing these two laws today, the sales tax and excise duties. However, the colourful lie speaks the following reason: the sales tax next year and in 2003 will not be paid on fresh, i.e. frozen fruit and vegetables. And why not fruit and vegetable processing? Sales tax will not be paid for frozen meat and fish, and why not processed. Sales tax will not be paid on drugs on the list. The drugs on the list are so reduced that it's just DOS fluid. So reduced, they're not even in state pharmacies, and, behold, miracles, they're all in private pharmacies. Transport tax will not be paid for municipal services either, says the DOS government - transparently as a colorful lie. After a large collection of all food and utility products this year, this law will have no effect.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15878	He has the word Mr. Aleksandar Vucic, followed by Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15879	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I don't think we're even 80-90 in the O.R., let alone the quorum. That's what most people will worry about. No matter what the glory is, it's also glory to me and I celebrated yesterday, and tonight I will, but now it's the National Assembly and it's our duty to justify the trust of the people and to be serious. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, because I will go out more in detail on the second Transport Tax Act and have the opportunity to talk about it, we have made several proposals in the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I even said it myself to Minister Djelic and I hope those amendments will be accepted. The first thing and the big point is that what we're looking for is a reduction of excise duties on oil derivatives. A reduction, but which will not reflect a cut in money in the Republic of Serbia's budget because we asked to introduce excise payments to so-called. medium derivatives, other medium derivatives, not counting diesel fuel. Here, first of all, means a bitumen diluent, well, new salt 1, 2 and 3, etc. That's what the government would have to accept in the total amount of money that would come into the budget. Certainly they will not lose, and the excise duties will be reduced in the amount of 40 pairs to one dinar to all types of motor gasoline, to all kinds of diesel - fuel, to oil for storage, special oil for hatching, easily special, etc. We suggested that excise duties on tobacco processing of domestic production be paid at 50% lower in order to protect domestic production. Of course, we also asked to delete the food salt excise, not to be limited to 2002 and 2003. I'm sorry we don't have any more time, so according to the new genius of the DOS regime, it's foreseen. And next time, I will have the opportunity to respond in some amendment to a Jagodina criminal who every time uses an opportunity and the regime gives him the opportunity to attack Serbian radicals, lie in the most brutal way, forge and tell the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15880	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic, followed by MP Stevo Dragisic. Since Stevo Dragisic is not present, the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15881	Since you have limited time to the MPs of the SRS for a minute and a half, I've decided to read you a song about every law, I wouldn't want my denominator to deprive me of the songs. Here is your song, denominator: Behold, to the people of great happiness, and neither does the minister of happiness hide: the tax shall be paid no more, for that which is not paid. When you buy from peasants a pig or a famous Surcess egg, there's no pig tax, you know, and there's no tax on an egg. When you buy vegetables at the vegetable market or beat the fruit out of a tree, you don't have to peel your pocket, even on a tax to pay. The drugs aren't there, and you get it, because they're on the list with secrets, but you don't have to pay taxes, thanks to the law that's great. Gas is a luxury, and what else, it's time to figure it out once, the one who drives the second-hand south, the luxury tax will pay. When a turbotizel drives or a jeep, if we just record the situation, the poor guy's all over the place, so the fuel's going to pay less. But let's get out of the way, we're not naive students either, nobody paid taxes for what they buy at the market. One minute and 23 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15882	The People's Messenger Srboljub Zivanovic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Slobodan Janjic. The remaining time is eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15883	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to justify their incompetence, to justify their thieving against Serbia's food producers and citizens, after a year they remembered that certain products should be abolished. You did not do what you care to prevent a social disaster in the country (hungry and misery), but you are afraid of social unrest and the loss of power, but, you know, it is soon waiting for you. So now you want to cut the meat sales tax, the fresh eggs, but the prices are so high that the citizens will certainly not feel it. As for the drugs, again, like, you want to help the citizens, but whoever you help, know for sure there's a wooden coat waiting for him. Hospitals don't have medicines, state pharmacies are empty, and in private pharmacies you can buy everything without a prescription, only at a high price. On communal services, you also want to abolish the sales tax, and you yourself know that the prices of these services are so enormous that today every average citizen of that obligation cannot meet. You want excise duties on gasoline and petroleum products to increase your budget, or you want to go to the European Union, that is clear to us, because every approach to Europe costs this people and this country a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15884	The word is Slobodan Janjic, followed by the MP Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15885	In such a short time, I don't know what to say at all, but I'm going to say a few sentences to Mr. Secretary, who seems to be coming to these sessions from another planet or from Disneyland. He convinces us here that we live very well, that the Nish tobacco factory is doing well, that the Vranj tobacco factory is doing well, just didn't say that the financial effects are very small, due to the unfair competition of cigarettes from imports. Also, tobacco producers were paid at prices from 2000, so they didn't make any profits, so we'll see who's going to plant that same tobacco next year. What you want is to distract citizens -- like, you're releasing them from some tax. You're releasing them from taxes on drugs they don't have. If someone wants to take the child to the doctor, they have to sit down with the child in the car and spend more gas, and the difference in the price of gasoline is bigger than the tax on medicines. You must not touch these bans on the tobacco mafia: one is the Kaiser, one is Velje Ilica and one is Cankov. You touch there, free the citizens of these duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15886	The word is Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic, followed by Ms. Natasa Jovanovic. The remaining time is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15887	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to point out a few questions that require an answer at this point. The first question is responsibility for the past year. Today, meat, fish, fruit, vegetables, medicines are released. The question arises - who is responsible for paying taxes and high prices of these products in the previous year. Why the application of this law is limited only to the next two years, why this release is not permanent, or why it does not last without restrictions. Why are there only drugs on the list for tax exemption on the positive list? It is known that this list is in the jurisdiction of the Republic government and we know that this list is getting shorter and shorter from month to month. It is already said here that in this way only a health fund is being helped, not citizens, because those who do not use medicines on this list will have to pay a full price, with sales taxes, as they have so far. As for gasoline, or oil derivatives, I'd ask how it's possible that the price of gasoline doesn't change, if the excise goes up here by about six dinars. I'd like the minister to answer the question now, why is there no detailed calculation here, the price of gasoline, to see how it's possible to increase the excise duty, and to keep the retail price, so it doesn't change.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15888	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15889	After today's presentation, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic, we Serbian radicals and the vast majority of the people in Serbia can expect to have an even deeper economic and social crisis than it has been since the arrival of DOS in 2001. As for the draft law amending the Transport Tax Act, and the Excise Act, it is only a marketing failure of Mr Djelic's attempt to convince citizens of Serbia that it will be better to live in Serbia if excise duties and taxes on several products do not affect more significantly the improvement of population standards. Mr. Djelic, it is impossible for anyone in Serbia to believe that we will have growth in production when we have recorded a decline throughout the year. It's impossible to believe that we're going to be the center of that future market for 55 million people, because we've had catastrophic or no exports this year. All you have to do is explain to the MPs and the citizens of Serbia that you're going to market with your aunt and you're buying at the good prices of the food, so that they can survive through your financial gymnastics and apply the same model with their poor incomes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15890	The word is Mr Petar Jojic, followed by Mr Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15891	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Djelic cannot be trusted, nor can the whole of Serbia believe what he said today. It would seem as if the minister is a magician and has come to convince us that in Serbia it will be better to prove that the increase of these tax duties in oil excise duty, oil derivatives and cigarettes will not affect the citizens' budget. That's not true. So 6 billion and 480 million should be taken on oil derivatives, and 2 billion and 180 million dinars should be taken to increase the price of cigarettes. That's what gets into the citizens' pocket, it's not true that any relief will be, and it's not true that this won't make it so difficult for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15892	He has the word Mr. Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15893	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the very fact that by an urgent procedure we adopt these bill proposals and the budget speaks of the seriousness of the government, and the story of a democratic approach to some alleged relief for Serbian citizens is a very transparent thing, it cannot convince Serbian radicals, and especially not citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What is reduced, the sales tax, is only for those goods to be imported, means for those import-export licences or quotas, which are used only by a certain privileged number of people. As for the excise law, where excise duty is claimed to increase from 10 to 18 dinars per litre, the very claim that the price of gasoline will continue to be the same is a lie, which will in future deny us, because this price will especially have one chain of purchases in all other items. What's even unimaginable is that it's planning a far bigger budget than it was, which means that citizens need to get their hands in their pockets even deeper, to replace budget funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15894	Are any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? He has the word Mr Dragan Tomic, representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15895	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, at the end of this debate, which led to these cosmetic changes in the laws on sales and excise duties, we can conclude that nothing significant, in terms of relief, nor in terms of improvement, will happen in the next fiscal year, although these changes have been announced, which are reportedly going to enable a better position of the population, by reducing the price of meat, meat processing, fruit and vegetables and fresh eggs - this will not significantly affect the socio-economic situation of the population, i.e. will not affect improving the purchasing power of the population. Because if we found that industrial production is almost zero, or that it is in decline and that there is no growth, with constant promises -- if there are donations or if we sell something from the Serbian economy, then we'll be able to invest some money in crafts, then we'll have some momentum in that area, and only then can we expect the growth of the social standard, or the increase in wages by about 10-15%, and here, we announce an inflation that will be at about 20%. That means again a real fall in personal incomes by about 30-40%. We have an announcement of price growth in the area of municipal services. So we'll go back to heating, electricity, and other utility services in the next year. I think that through this cosmetics that is introduced into these two regulations, there will be no improvement in what has been potential here, which is a better life for the citizens of Serbia and the social standard. And I don't see any improvement in the purchasing power of the population. Because food producers and these other products, which are mainly sold on the market, are located in the so-called ‘. the isolated sphere, past tax procedures, since all that is sold on the markets, it is past the tax sphere and is largely not having any significant effect, although there has been an announcement that a register of casa will also be introduced on the market. I think it's almost impossible at this point, because there's all kinds of stuff on the markets, from real agricultural products to all kinds of smuggled goods. I don't think anyone's trading at the market because they love the market, but because they want to get to the almost dinar, and because there's an opportunity for them to sell their goods that way. This cosmetics and this debate, which we've been having all day, in this, I would say, non-business way, with the need to make this change by the end of this year, will not improve the state's state of affairs, and in particular it will not improve the stability of this country's economic system. We think that regardless of the growth of excise duties on cigarettes is significant, it will not improve the financial situation in the budget, but will probably improve the financing of those in the gray zone, those in the cigarette smuggling and those in control of cigarette smuggling. And we definitely think that this is more appropriate to them than the state is going to have significant effects in this area. Here, you can see that from the assessment of the effects of changes in the tax system in revenue for 2002. So the increase in the total mass of funds expected and its achievement in the following year is about 6 billion and 480 million. It's not a significant item and it's not a figure that we'll be able to expect, nor can we expect in this way these effects of which here, from this pay phone, are trying to say something (that's page 9 in reason). So I think that these effects of the reduction (I'm not talking about reductions when it comes to tax exemptions and drug production -- by one billion and food products -- by two billion) will not create a more significant balance, nor will it help to improve the purchasing power of the population. I didn't deny from this pay phone when it was said that we had actually grown our personal incomes, that they helped improve the purchasing power of the population; and it wasn't proven that the salaries were 200 marks; I still think they're 150 marks at the level of the general average. And this cosmetic increase before New Year's Eve of some personal income by 5.6 or 7% will not improve the purchasing power of the population. Therefore, in the area of transport tax, in the field of excise duties, we continue the same practice, we have a recession policy, and I do not expect that more significant growth of revenues will be improved next year, because it is clear that in the field of the gray economy there are many more things, above all in the part where cigarettes, where there is alcohol, where there is oil and where coffee is. So all excise goods are significantly still in the gray economy and nothing significant has been done on this plan. Therefore, I will be against the draft of this law in principle. If amendments are adopted as suggested, we will discuss and consider what we will do when the law is considered in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15896	Anyone else answer for a word? The word came from Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15897	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, you're assessing that in this week's debate on the criteria of amending the legislation on excise duties and on sales, we have actually repeated those discussions and those views that were dominant and in the process of adopting laws that we are changing in part today. The characteristics of critics, who have even now criticised this law, is the complete absence of the willingness to realistically consider the situation in society and carefully analyse the causes of the situation that it is. But it is true that someone can criticise the restrictive policy of the Republic government in the area of public spending. But that's our intention, and we're not going to give up on it, we're going to take care of six and a half billion, which may not be a significant financial asset for the opposition, but a dinar. Because this time, the tydinary does not come from Topcider, from the printing industry of money, but come from a production that is as it is from the careful policy of this country. Among other things, it comes from the same register that the country has to: to return old foreign currency savings; to pay out pensions every month; to meet the liabilities for a child's allowance every month; to the disability; to provide social assistance for 20,000 refugees each month, to provide funds for economic restructuring, to provide funding for 1.5 million people who have lost their jobs. Now, that's a state-owned kasakojmi today, and we're making it easier for these amendments to the Transport Tax Act. In March of the month when we adopted the Laws that we are changing in part today, there were many remarks and many different ideas. They are indeed liberal, but I urge you to answer from the opposition's perspective why you did not lift those taxes in ten years, but you did, on the contrary, expand and increase them. Today, the DOS parliamentary group supports amendments to the Law in the part in which a 20% turnover tax is abolished for fresh meat, vegetables, eggs, orthopedic aid drugs from the positive lists If we continue at this rate, with careful consumption, controlled public expenditure, I am sure that in a year we will have an area that will be tax-free liberalised, free from this kind of burden. Everything else is buying social peace on a short deadline, which in itself cannot be satisfactory for a society that needs to be changed. So the idea of liberating these products is not the idea of liberalising the market, in a segment where the state no longer arbitration. You were only talking about the social component, justifying, say, the fact that the price of a product will be 20% lower, and you refuse to talk about the fact that today's legal face you can't buy one ton of homemade potatoes, one ton of tomato, cucumber, onions. "C" market and "Pekabeta" are taking those products from abroad. That's because it was a frantic gap between the legal person's status and the natural person's. You've destroyed the real production. Pekabeta plantations around Belgrade are archaeological sites. This opens a new production perspective for these companies we are pleased that we are able to do so. It's the same with the drugs on the positive list. We expect that this will also be a relief for manufacturers, who will become dominant not only on the domestic market but also on the markets in the environment. The price of the drug is ino-domical and it is not formed by arbitrary government or DOS will, but by country standards in an environment affecting components that are components of a drug. So this is the double advantage of these changes and I think we should talk about it. The first goal is the economic aspect, and the second is social. As for this price manipulation and the idea of excise duty is actually increasing in a realistic way, and it doesn't change the price on the market, I'm going to say what the structure of the retail price is, let's say, the gas station is 76 octane. You have a refinery and purchase price. Then when these prices were established, 40% was higher in the world market. Follow the circumstances under which it operates today in terms of market environment conditions, so you will see that in this area we are actually reacting and not questioning the price of 44 dinars, we are actually increasing the excise rate, we are making a profit of 6.5 billion dinars, which opens up the possibility of reducing the sales tax on these products that we have mentioned, and at the same time we are not questioning this nominal amount in our national case. Thus, funds will be provided from this excise duty: for the restoration of health institutions; for education and partly for the reorganisation of our economy; in fact, for dedicated programmes for workers seeking requalification due to the change of jobs. It may seem that we can't talk about this with a purely practical point of view, but we already have to, of course, think about the circumstances under which our societies function, without dividing into positions and opposition, because the economy is such a thing in this segment that we're talking about today -- it doesn't admit. I think it's clear after a year of applying this kind of fiscal policy. We've basically put the signs of income and expenditure in the budget, no parallel accounts, no printing of money, and we meet our obligations. I hope that it is in the interest of all MPs in the Assembly that those debtors who are created in a really difficult time, not according to politicians, but according to our public, are dying in general. And when it comes to the return of old foreign savings, no one says: "We will return those funds to the citizens if they vote for DOS, and we will not give someone else." On the contrary, we are creating the foundations of a modern European Serbia in which, of course, there will be plenty of room for political conflicts, and I don't think this is a good basis for that kind of political behaviour. We can certainly say a few facts, and this is that this is the first step in liberalising that because of this DOS supports it. At the same time, this liberalisation does not lead to a fundamental concept that we insist on, which is a careful spending of funds, that there is no wasteful policy that this is not exclusively a social tender in which we want to play a crucial role, but it is actually a major economic incentive. I hope that within a year from the Committee on Agriculture's Parliament we will receive a report that will show that we have become food exporters, not a society that must import potatoes, onions, tomatoes or beans, which is unfortunately our present reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15898	Thank you. Alexander Vukitch is looking for a word. ( b) On what basis do you want the word? You can't get a word for the replica. [[Alexander Vukic: Reporting for replica.]] (Alexander Vukic: Through Business. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, but not to use the right replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you had to give me the right to a replica, Mr. Jovanovic spoke of the opposition in this House in a way that gives rise to this announcement. I have the right, according to the Rules of Procedure as a sublegal legal act, as an MP for the Serbian Radical Party to respond to what Mr Jovanovic said. Mr. Jovanovic said something that really isn't true. I brought the papers, so I'll show you in black on white. We were, Mr. Jovanovic, not correct, but incredibly correct for one opposition political party, because in our proposal, in our amendments, we cut the budget, we didn't invest in people, we're talking to people -- you're going to have a budget of not knowing how many hundreds of billions, so we're going to increase it by another 30 or 40 billion to be 260, but we've cut it to 180 -- not to count with a basic deficit of 219 - to 123 billion. You may find shortcomings there, and say, "You won't be able to do everything, what needs to be paid will be enough for everyone." But this shows that we were not demagogues at all, that we were not cheating on anyone in Serbia, but that in the most correct, honest way we tried to make one restrictive budget proposal. Those are our amendments, just the opposite of what you said. Maybe someone else is looking for money for volleyball, someone else for I don't know what, but we're not looking for it, we know what kind of situation Serbia is, we don't lie to peoples to run honey and milk if we come to power, but we say, of course, we have to tighten the belt. And there's our amendments, we're looking for an even more restrictive budget, not a lot of money -- give it money. We're looking for a reduction, not an increase in public spending, just the opposite of what you said. We have proposed regarding the excise tax legislation on sales - a little reduction of excise duties, but the introduction of new excise duties which so far have not been, as it has been around derivatives etc. You're talking about potatoes, imported from Holland today, or I don't know where. It's no better potatoes from the Netherlands than potatoes in the Chances, it's the village of the landscape. It's better this way, but we're destroying our production, destroying it by depreciating German brands, destroying it in every way, because at any cost, some of us are trying to destroy what is produced in Serbia, that something like that doesn't exist, that we don't have any more chance of developing that production in any way after that. That's the essential thing. I don't even know where you found all the stuff you were transferring, because our objections didn't move in those frames at all. On the contrary, we as a political organisation of the moderate right cannot and should not be looking for a budget that will be twice as big or 30-40% higher than already foreseen. If you have this deficit, I'm asking where we get this kind of interest of 22 billion, if we've got so many grace periods of seven, ten years, etc., so we have to pay 22 billion now? (President: Time. ) Another thing about the price of oil and gasoline - on the world market there is a trend in the drop in prices at 18-19 dollars maximum, only with us the price of gasoline rising. It is already announcing an increase in electricity prices in March. You can think how much, how and how it's going to affect prices.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15900	These were objections to the Rules of Procedure. In the future, when someone mentions DOS or government, the right to replica will have 18 political parties. Minister Djelic picked up the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15901	Two things. First of all, about the budget, although we're going to have a lot more opportunities to talk about when it comes to the agenda. The second thing concerns voting in principle on these two tax laws. As for the amendments to cut the budget to 122 billion, the message is clear -- or we'll say we won't pay interest abroad, so what we agreed with the Paris Club falls into the water; or we won't, it'll be news for educational workers, pay them three salaries or pensioners three or four pensions. Serbia is such that we have some legal rights. Democracy, it's to make one budget -- unlike those that have been made in recent years -- where legal rights are expressed, so that you as representatives of the people can decide whether those rights are right or wrong. But it's not up to the executive to make an unreal budget, like they used to do with zero inflation or like the planned budget for 2000 with one or two pensions less. That's what our country looks like, that's the rights we're working on. And when it is known that some rights will not be maintained in the same mold and at the same level, then changes are proposed, as is proposed today at a federal level in the domain of pension-inhabited insurance. So it's the budget of truth, not demagogy. As far as tax laws are concerned, tax policy is one of the worst instruments for implementing other policies, such as development policies, birth policies, even social policies. What we are proposing today in these two laws, that is to say, a deviation from what is the right principle, which is that the tax is neutral, that the rate is the same for all products and for different categories of our population, and that social policy is being implemented on a scale as it was this year, when we have regular, regular, up-to-date and realistic child benefits. That's the real thing. At this point, however, in December 2001, two key markets in Serbia are in a different situation. We, as executive authority, recognize our inability to regulate at this point, as much as it should be arranged, one market, i.e. The market for fresh food and the market for medicines. That's why there are two years and there are two tasks. The first task is at this point to give up our population, that in these key segments -- food, medicines and communals, and we know that for our poorest citizens, those three items are very important for their family budget, there is a price reduction. I can say that with an organized trade, with which we will have a meeting tomorrow, if you adopt these laws, they are already announcing a very large price reduction. Let me give you one example: "C-market" has announced a 25% cut in fresh meat. There'll be more. Pecabeta has announced even greater reductions in some elements, such as fruit and vegetables. That's one thing. On the other hand, there is something which, unfortunately, is the same reality of our production, which is when one tax relief is made, if it is not accompanied by some other measures of control of what is happening on the market and anti-monopoly controls, if producers do not agree on one level of price, then the tax effects are not lasting. Therefore, you have a firm engagement of our government that in the months to come and how to operate on the ground through market inspection and through accompanying measures, so that these price reductions are not used by producers or traders - to hide their productivity shortages or to try to compensate for what they have lost in the last ten years. So your vote today for these two laws is a strong vote to improve the standards of our citizens, but also one commitment to power, i.e. for our government, to make the food market and the drugs much better, so that in two years, when this comes back to the agenda, we can realize that it's time to fill in this fiscal system and go back to normal. That's how much I hope you vote for two key laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-20-0.u15902	Since no one is answering the question anymore, I am concluding a joint review of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport Taxes and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises. We move to a decision on the bill's proposals in principle. First, I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act in principle. For 136, against 15, there are no abstentions, no vote is 25, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Secondly, I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in principle. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 137, against 39, the abstentioned were not voted by four, a total of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill of excise duties, in principle. The National Assembly will carry out a thorough search of these draft laws, which have been accepted in principle, a search in particular and a vote in general. Tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. Legislative Committee. Environmental protection committee at 9.30 p.m. The meetings of the Health and Culture Committee at 1100 hours are adjourned. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to inform you that we will continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 159 MPs. Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Milos Lučić, Dusan Budišin, Ljubisa Djokovic, Vasilija Pavicevic, Slavoljub Matić, Branislav Ivković, Predrag Stojanović, Momcilo Trajković, Radic Jokovic and (before noon) Milutin Svetović. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-President, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Tax Tax on Transport (Statistics) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs: Vojislav Jankovic, Marko Culibrk, Dragoljub Vojnović, Zivanko Radovanchev, Marko Culibrk, Joca Arsic and a group of 21 MPs from the SRS. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the Finance Committee has not delivered a report, and the Government considers amendments submitted to the draft law, I remind you that, under Article 136(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly may decide to consider the bill without them or to set a new deadline within which they are required to do so. I propose that the National Assembly decide to consider the bill without a report from the Committee on Finance and Government opinion. I am voting on a proposal for the National Assembly to consider the draft law without the report of the Committee on Finance and the Government's opinions. For 103, against 17, a abstentioned one, did not vote 43, a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to consider the bill without a report from the Finance and Opinion Committee. Since the National Assembly has concluded a common principle search, under which the draft law amending and supplementing the law on sales tax has also been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs of the SRS group submitted to the 1st amendment. The amendment will be explained by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There is a word from MP Veroljub Arsic.
