ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10589	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 135 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have announced the absence of the following MPs: Zaharija Trnavcevic, Dragan Marsican, Natasa Micic, Srdjan Sikimic, Zivica Predojev, Dusan Budisin, Zoran Boskovic, Aleksandar Krstic, Bojan Pajtic and Olgica Kircanski. Only in the morning is the absent Ružica Veljovic, and Dusan Ilic will be late. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. I find that we have the conditions to continue our work on the agenda. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Miroslav Krisodulo, Pal Shandor, Velimir Simonović, Natasa Jovanovic, Zeljo Huric, with amendments, Dragan Čolić, Slobodan Janjic, Goran Cvetanović, Dragoljub Stamenković, Vitomir Plužarevic, Lazar Marjanski, Stevan Kesejić, Branislav Blažić, Bozidar Vužić, Srboljub Živanovic, Borislav Pelevic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Milorad Mirčić, Veroljub Arsic, Petar Jojic, Bozidar Vucurović, as well as the government's opinion on the amendments made. National MP Sladjan Mijalovic submitted an untimely amendment to Article 5(1). The bill, submitted on 8 June 2001, contrary to Article 138(1) of the Law. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Milan Radulovic informed the National Assembly that he is withdrawing amendments to Article 1, new member 2 and new member 6. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Pavlovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10590	Ladies and gentlemen, given the scope of this law and the number of amendments submitted, I believe it is possible that the debate in principle may take a shorter time and I suggest that, on the basis of Article 88(1), we limit the time of discussion to five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10591	Thank you. National MP Stanko Kovacevic gave up, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Velimir Simonovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest we work towards the Rules of Procedure. I can't figure out who cares that we, this kind of DOS majority, are destroying this parliament. There's always some sort of motion to shorten the debate. I suggest we work towards the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10593	The proposal to work under the Rules of Procedure is not a motion for a vote and is automatically in effect after the vote on proposals, which are different from the proposal for a Rules of Procedure. The People's MP Branislav Ivkovic reportedly, followed by MP Zoran D. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10594	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 78(4). In this regard, Article 78(4) states that the President of the National Assembly or someone authorised by him may postpone the hour, that is, the day of the meeting of the National Assembly, if a number of amendments are submitted to the proposed agenda, which the Government and the committees in charge cannot consider before the session begins. She shall inform the messengers of the matter in good time. Vice-President Natasa Micic postponed last session scheduled for July 2nd for today, July 9th, completely past Rules of Procedure and Article 78, which confirms the just read position 4 and the proposal that came from the MPs from the DOS to shorten the time of the debate, where the basic proposal for the Constitution, the Happy Constitution or the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which defined it completely comprehensively. He talks about the attitude of the DOS majority towards the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which has shown on Vidovdan. In this regard, I am asking, as soon as possible, for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to be scheduled, as an initiative must be found on that agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10595	I ask the MP to respect the procedure and if it is called for in breach of the Rules of Procedure and that the appointment of the sittings be carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Does the MP wish to put the motion to the vote on the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 78, Article 4? The MP received an explanation and this intervention does not refer to that he does not know the explanation because it was about... An explanation to the MPs was sent with an explanation signed by the vice-president of Natasa Micic's Assembly. [[growls]] People's MPs who know the business procedure know it's not about holding a session, it's about continuing work. Since Vice-President Natasa Micic was informed of the busyness of MPs for the working days of the previous week, and since she estimated that the time had come to postpone the assembly session (disaster in the hall), she did so by an appointment Monday (July 9th). It is her right as chairman of the National Assembly. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether an injured member of Article 78(4) has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For 58, against 121 abstentions, there was no 7. out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has concluded that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 78 of Article 4 in the act of cancelling the work of the session. There's a word from MP Zoran D. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10596	I'm advertising a breach in article 71. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides for the meeting of the Committee to be convened by the Chair of the Committee, and to provide a notice of the date and agenda of the meeting of the Committee to all Members, MPs and Governments, at least five days before the meeting of the Committee. A meeting of the Justice and Administration Committee was scheduled for the previous Monday. The session was orally cancelled on the day of the maintenance on Monday. I want to remind the public and the MPs that on the previous day, on Sunday, the session of the Legislative Committee was also scheduled and that committee held its session on Sunday, in the afternoon, with a quorum. So I don't think these reasons are put forward by the Madam Chairman in her reasoning. As for cancelling the Committee session on Monday, I'd like to use my three minutes to explain my vision of the reason why she was cancelled...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10597	I implore the MP to make his views of the reasons for... a break in the work of the Assembly, declared to be a political party, not a MP. You went out to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure and we'll give an explanation of the Ambassador's injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10598	Please don't interrupt me. For these three minutes, I want to state the reasons why the Rules of Procedure has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10599	It's my duty to interrupt when you answer, so don't talk about the subject you've reported. It's my business obligation. Otherwise, I hate to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10600	I think your behavior is very incorrect. You do not allow me to use these minutes and a half to say why the Committee's meeting against the Rules of Procedure has been postponed. It was postponed because the SPS group submitted an initiative to discharge the Supreme Court President, the District Court President and the investigative judge Goran Cavlina.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10601	I ask the MP not to make assumptions about the cancellation of the Justice and Administration Committee. This committee has its own president and, on your reasoned request, the president can explain why the session was cancelled. The assumptions of this kind are not for the speaker of the National Assembly, especially if you went out to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure to the occasion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10602	I think this argument speaks more of you and your view of democracy in Serbia, but what is there.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10603	I look at the Rules of Procedure and look at democracy. Thank you. The explanation for the advertising carried out by MP Zoran D. Nikolic refers to the work of the Committee on Justice and Administration and the behaviour of the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration. Since the president, as far as I can tell, is currently not present in the O.R., I can't make any assumptions as to why Professor Dr. Dragore Hiber cancelled the committee session. The only thing I can ask the National Assembly is that by voting it assesses whether such a procedure has been carried out by the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, the Rules of Procedure has been broken or not. Does the MP, Zoran D. Nikolic, want a statement from the National Assembly? No, I don't. He doesn't want to, I thank you. National MP Vojislav Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10604	Mrs. Komic, with her lapidarian style, which can be politically probative, but which does not comply with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, you constantly violate the Rules of Procedure. You think with your lapidarity, which is one positive feature on political myths, that you can replace the specific content of the Rules of Procedure here. You should read the Rules of Procedure, so that, in accordance with what you have read, you may give your interpretation, not if what it says in the Rules of Procedure is not in line with what you say, a team up by the Rules of Procedure. You've been so relieved of that lapidity, which implores me, I must admit, but which is not appropriate to the problem that's being discussed here, you've gone through the first advertising of the Rules of Procedure's injury. We have not been informed in writing of the postponement of the National Assembly session and there is no reason to delay it. Only a telegram was sent with notice that the session was delayed, and that is not enough and that is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. On the contrary, there was reason for the National Assembly to sit urgently because a coup was carried out in Serbia on those days.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10605	I ask the MP to remind himself that we had discussed this a moment ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10606	Let me explain my claim that you violated the Rules of Procedure, and then you have the right to beg me for whatever you want. You've violated Article 28. Rules of Procedure. There was a coup in Serbia. What's a coup? It's when a state body grabs authority that doesn't have...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10607	I ask the MP to explain how the chairman of the National Assembly took part in something you say as a coup.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10608	Why don't you have patience, do you think it's not a coup when the Republic government is openly overrun by the Constitution?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10609	No, I think that the MP who knows very well the Rules of Procedure and the compliments can be exchanged when he comes out to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure and knows that he is doing so when that member is already advertised, in an explanation of the work of the Chair of the Assembly, should state what the facts are.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10610	I'm stating facts here, but you're running away from facts. Listen to the facts, why are you impatient?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10611	I didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10612	Why don't you have the patience to listen to the facts for three minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10613	Because I have an obligation to ensure that those three minutes stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10614	You are running away from the facts, you have only one obligation here that your party has imposed on you, which is to prevent one word from this pay phone from saying a coup, which was carried out in Serbia. The government is proud, publicly boasting about how she committed a coup. What does the Constitution need when she doesn't want it, what the Constitutional Court will do when she won't judge what the DOS majority wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10615	I'm asking the People's MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10616	The coup was carried out, and a session of the National Assembly was postponed so that it would be ruled out as if it did not see that coup and that it would continue to work as if nothing had happened. That is the essence and that is why you are violating the Rules of Procedure, because you are aiding the treading of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10617	I thank the People's MP. National MP Vojislav Seselj advertised that the chairman was in violation of Article 28. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says in its provisions that he is doing the work provided for in the Constitution, chairing the meetings of the National Assembly, to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to care for the timely and coordinated work of working bodies and to carry out other tasks provided for in the law and these Rules of Procedure. If there were room for lapidarity or coups in any of these provisions, I would give an explanation, but, with full respect for the strategy and political parties and individual MPs, I don't think there was any breach of the Rules of Procedure. I consistently apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I will do so until the National Assembly decides otherwise. Is MP Vojislav Seselj satisfied with the answer? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I am not satisfied. ) I ask the National Assembly to declare to the People's MP Vojislav Seselj that a violation of Article 28 has been committed. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For 64, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote four, out of a total of 194 MPs. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10618	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like in particular to ask my colleagues from DOS not to accept this proposal to shorten the time for discussion, for the simple reason that this is one of the first laws with which we enter the sphere of human rights, and even broader collective rights, and should allow the time provided for by the Rules of Procedure, so that each of us can discuss in that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10619	I remind MP Zelj Huric that what is under the Rules of Procedure is not a proposal, because by voting on a proposal that is different from the rules of the Rules of Procedure, it remains, of course, in force of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10620	I point to two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. One you made by canceling the session. If you read Article 28. Rules of Procedure, you will see that the President of the National Assembly only manages to schedule the session and conduct the session, and that it is the right of the Assembly to interrupt the session, to hold the session, to postpone the session for another day, to set working days past the Rules of Procedure, which says that the working days are all, possibly one working day a week unworkable and to be Friday. So no one, nor the President of the Assembly, nor the one replacing him, has the right to hold a session that is under way, in any way without a decision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is quite clear in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We should not even plead to that because it is clear. The only way to influence the holding of sessions is to provide provisions provided for in Article 78 or Article 135. The Rules of Procedure, which relate to a large number of amendments that have been made, should eventually stop. The second violation of the Rules of Procedure, it is that you, Mrs Komic, opened a debate this morning on the proposal for a bill on state and other holidays, and that after that, in addition to the provision of Article 88(1), you put the proposal in the procedure to shorten the time of the debate under this item of the agenda. Article 88 is very clear. The time of exposure may be changed or the amendment proposal may be changed only at the start of the search on a given agenda. You, Mrs. Komic, opened the search with your opening statement on the agenda. You didn't talk about the session, you didn't talk about Vidovdan, you didn't say why 7 days of the session didn't take place, and I guess it was your duty, to tell us at the beginning what the MPs were too busy arresting and handing over Slobodan Milosevic and arresting the other Serbs, so that we know that it remains remembered in history.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10621	I ask the MP not to make assumptions about the reasons for the absence of other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10622	I, unlike Mr. Seselj, don't admire your lapidarity, but I call it a camp, so I'd ask you to hold out just until I get off this pay phone, and then you let go of your clump, open the taps, and I don't listen to what you're saying anyway. In the right sentence, you say everything you're actually supposed to say. So it can no longer be discussed, nor can it be voted on to shorten the time foreseen for discussion on this agenda point. You opened the debate, you told us who submitted the amendments and who the promoters were.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10623	Advertising for a member of the appointment, i.e. only postponing work, the session is not interrupted, we discussed this, and I see no reason to remind the MPs once again that when we discuss one breach, we do not repeat ourselves. What I wanted to say, and what I wasn't obliged to do, is to say that I am glad to see all the MPs and members of the opposition parties again in the assembly benches. That's all I wanted to say, and that's not according to the Rules of Procedure and the screen. As far as your remarks are concerned, I believe they've been made clear by the advertising of previous MPs, that we're not wasting each other's time. The National Assembly can declare this once more, whether the Rules of Procedure in Rule 28 has been broken or in a member who determines how the session is interrupted. This session has not been interrupted and has not been interrupted. The day and hour of the session has been moved, and that is the responsibility of the president, i.e. the one entrusted with the replacement, which is Vice-President Natasa Micic. Do you want the National Assembly to plead for another violation? As for your remarks on when the search begins, I can only give you an interpretation: the search on the agenda point begins at the moment I say - I am opening a principle search. At that moment, MP Dragan Pavlovic appeared. The MP asks who he's a member of. If you know the members where they write about lapidarity and coups, then I know the members where it says that the opening of a principled search is the beginning of a debate. National MP Stevan G. Guduric, advertising the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10624	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this could include a dozen members, but 28 and 78. You're saying we discussed 78. We didn't discuss 78, for one very simple reason, that the telegrams came on Monday. As far as I know, most of the MPs are not from Belgrade, and they can't plan a trip right now. If the telegram came Monday for a ten-hour session, and the telegram came at 9:00 in the morning, and if it hadn't been for television, if it hadn't been for any other information, most of the MPs would have been here. All these arguments that, mildly said shame, why would everyone stick to the Rules of Procedure when you don't stick to the Constitution?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10625	With my best wishes, I can't respect your remark, which is in the light of the time of the telegram. This assembly advocates the division of legislative, executive, judicial, and other authorities. If you think I'm going to call PTT Serbia so that Stevan G. Guduric gets a telegram on Sunday night, then the explanation of when the telegram arrived is most serious he can't explain any member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Maravić, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10626	Dear Madam Chairman, dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to advertise the violation of Article 45. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. Since Article 45 provides that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is, among other things, considering the principles of the application of the Constitution, I believe that there has been a breach of this member of the Rules of Procedure. Because, in fact, Article 47, point 2. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia also states: "The citizen of the Republic of Serbia cannot be deprived of citizenship, exiled or extradited." Since Vidovdan, under the government of the Republic of Serbia, is the former president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10627	I ask the MP to justify violating Article 45's provision. Rules of Procedure. You explain the way the chairman of the Constitutional Affairs Committee works.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10628	It is clear that there has been a flagrant violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. He's not in the government's jurisdiction as executive authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10629	I ask the People's Messengers to listen to each other and that we all respect the National Assembly together.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10630	The deception of our public is also an invitation to Article 135. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as Article 2 exclusively refers to the former SFRY.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10631	I ask the People's MP to remain on the objection of violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if the occasion has been obtained at the session of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10632	Given the flagrantly broken constitution on the day of one of Serbia's biggest holidays, and certainly the biggest holiday for us Serbs from Kosovo, I think there was a session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to be scheduled.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10633	I ask the MP to stick to the subject, if he uses the Rules of Procedure to get word at the meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10634	Since Mr. Marscanin is ill, I believe his deputy had to call the session of the Constitutional Affairs Committee most urgently, because it is a violation of authority primarily of this assembly and the entire state of Serbia. Because the said regulation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia put itself above the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because in the rule of law, an argument of greater interest absolutely does not stand and therefore I believe that there has been a violation of Article 45 and I ask that the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be made known about the violation of Article 45. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10635	The MP warned of a violation of article 45. Rules of Procedure, among other things. I would really ask all the MPs if they wanted to use the right to use it and use it, not abuse it. Article 45 says the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is considering a proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a proposal to amend the Constitution of the SRJ and the statutes of autonomous provinces in the process of giving consent to the National Assembly, a proposal to initiate the procedure for impeachment of the President of the Republic, as well as the principles of application of the Constitution. He is a member of 47th to discuss the work of the Defence and Security Committee, which discusses proposals for legislation in the field of public and state security. What your objections are is that the meetings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Defence and Security are not scheduled, and that the meetings of those committees would discuss the issues that you believe should be on the agenda of those committees. The law and obligations of the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and of the Committee on Defence and Security or of their deputies shall be to hold meetings. In case these sessions are not scheduled long enough, you may request the chairman or president of the National Assembly to schedule a session. I believe that your remark did not go to this tone, but to the fact that using the Rules of Procedure, you provide messages for which you are absolutely entitled. Would you like to make a statement about the violation of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) I ask the National Assembly to declare the proposal of MP Maravić that members of 45 and 47 have been violated. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to vote. For 62, against 126, a abstentioned one, not voted 9, out of a total of 198 MPs. The word is by MP Branislav Ivkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10636	Your Honor, Madam Chairman, it wasn't about Article 47. Rules of Procedure, but on Article 47(2). The constitution, but you don't really need to be told, because it doesn't exist for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10637	I ask the People's Messenger to speak politely to other people's messengers and not to give judgments about other people's attitudes before he asks for these attitudes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10638	The positions already have been expressed in accordance with Article 47(2). Serbia's constitution, because it's also divided past it and against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10639	What kind of injury do you advertise?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10640	Article 95. First of all, I want to say that we SPS MPs have estimated that, while you are holding the presidency, it is really unnecessary to report on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, because you do not respect Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the Serbian Parliament. Article 95. The Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, paragraph 1, says, "To a national MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed." We now come to Section 2 which is the key - "the MP is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure in his opinion is injured, that it quotes and explains what the injury consists of, by being able to speak for the longest three minutes, without counting the time it takes to quote". So the MP who lists a member of the Rules of Procedure who is injured by it has the right to explain why he is injured. You don't get a chance to do that at all. You're talking about the legislative and judicial authority. In this country, it is a fundamental problem that the judiciary is completely under the control of the executive authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10641	I would ask MP Branislav Ivkovic to look together at the stenographic notes and confirm that as long as the MP explains and talks about the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am applying the position of Article 2 of Article 95. The moment the MP does not speak about the subject of breach of the Rules of Procedure, I shall apply the relevant member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would really like us to look at the stenograms together and see if that is the case, so that there is no doubt about the truth or the falsehood of the congregation speaker. I am putting on the vote by MP Dragan Pavlovic to limit the duration of the exposure to five minutes. For 108, against 73, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, out of a total of 197 MPs. I find that the debate in the principle of the draft law on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia, by the decision of the National Assembly, lasts five minutes each. Does a representative of the legislator want a word? He wants to. ) The word has Minister Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10642	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a decision on the education of the Commission for State Holidays, with the task of assessing the applicable legislative solutions on national holidays and proposing a new one. For the members of the commission, prominent scientific and public workers have been appointed. The Commission's proposal for a state holiday served the government of the Republic of Serbia as the starting basis for the draft law on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia. As you have seen from the proposed text, it is proposed to abolish the current national holidays: Fighter's Day - July 4th and Statehood Day - March 28th. Such a definition rests on the belief that in Serbia's history there are dates of much greater importance compared to historical processes and dates that are far less ideological. Also, a view was adopted that religious holidays should be included in the law on national and other holidays, since religious holidays have so far been governed by the provisions of the Labour Law. As you've seen, in Article 1. The bill states that the state holiday of the Republic of Serbia is the day of Serbia's statehood. When the history of the Serbian people is viewed in general, in the great civilizational era, then the restoration of the Serbian state in the 19th century is one of the most important events. The 1804th anniversary was marked the beginning of the First Serbian uprising, which had a significant impact on all later events in Serbian history in the 19th and 20th centuries. On the same day of 1835, Serbia received the first constitution, known as the Sretenj Constitution, which was short in force, but marked the initial stage in the development of constitutionality in Serbia. The meeting is the day of Serbia's statehood and is celebrated on February 15th. Article 2 also states that religious holidays are celebrated in the Republic of Serbia: the first day of Christmas - January 7th and Easter holidays, starting on the Big Friday, ending on the second day of Easter. In Article 3. The bill provides for meeting, the first day of Christmas and Easter holidays - not working days. In Article 4. The bill found that employees have the right not to work on certain religious holidays, according to belonging to a particular religion. Article 5 The bill provides for two dates to be celebrated in the Republic of Serbia: St Sava - 27 January, as a day of spirituality, and Vidovdan - 28 June, as a memorial to the Kosovo Battle. If something unites generations and generations of Serbs, then it's a figure of St. Sava. I don't think there is a need in particular to explain the role of the Holy Sava in the plan of affirmation of Serbia's spirituality and statehood. I think the time has come for us to get back on that path, Stephen Nemanja and St. Sava, to return, seemingly, to the past, because that's the only way we can have a future. Vidovdan, on the other hand, belongs to the basic concepts of Serbian historical memory. It is celebrated as a memory of the Kosovo Battle, but exceeds the frames of one battle, one event, and it has the appropriate universal meaning of a holiday dedicated to all I burn for my country through the long history of the Serbian people. In Article 6. The draft law provides that on the date of entry into force of this law, the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia, as well as Article 60, cease to apply. The labour law, which governed the right of employees not to work on religious holidays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10643	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, they don't. ) Do the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10644	Ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of this legislative project, one principle issue must first be resolved - under the Constitution of Serbia is not mentioned as the jurisdiction of the federal unit, i.e. the jurisdiction of the Republic Assembly, the adoption of the holiday law. The federal constitution explicitly has a provision under which the SRJ adopts the law on national holidays. The practice, of course, was different, but this issue should be brought under constitutional principles, under constitutional provisions. Second, the federal holiday law hasn't been passed yet. It can predict that federal units have their holiday, but things should not be solved upside down, but should be resolved in accordance with constitutional provisions. As for this particular holiday of the Republic of Serbia, as a federal unit, I think it is a well-chosen meeting, it just needs to be defined differently, not as a day of statehood, but as a day of constitutionality. The first Serbian Constitution was adopted at the meeting, before the meeting Serbia never had any constitution. That's why it's supposed to be a constitutional day. It's hard to do statehood day here. It would have to be the date from which the first Serbian state dates. It's impossible to historically determine. When it comes to religious holidays, first of all, we should stick to the principle that smart peoples and smart states take care to have as few holidays as possible, as working days. There needs to be a role model for Japan, not for countries that are in an economic crisis like us, and are being scattered with a large number of days of unemployment. That's why there's a clear difference between a holiday and a day off. As for Christmas, it's just fine, it's already a civilizational fluid across Europe, in the Northern Hemisphere, and there's, hopefully, no slow thing to do for Christmas to be a holiday and a day off, with that, when it falls on Sunday, it doesn't have to add another day. It's pointless at religious holidays. He can't move Christmas for Monday, and Sunday's always Sunday. That's what the communists used to introduce, adding more days. It's been a week -- it's a day off, it's Christmas, it's a holiday. What it means is that flags are all over the public places, that military music defils cities etc., to celebrate, not to add non-working days. That's the point. Secondly, in determining the Easter holidays, and this is pointless - Big Friday was never a holiday, it was never a holiday and it was never a day off. It's a day of mourning in Christianity. It's pointless to have a day off. Easter is supposed to be a holiday, but it always falls on Sunday, and it doesn't need another day after the week, it's pointless. Easter falls on Sunday, along with all religious ceremonies, even the national flags will be highlighted, the military will participate in defiles, military music, the academy and other celebrations, etc. It's a sign it's a holiday. At religious festivals, some questions are well - determined. Only Orthodox people are told about the first day of the Christian glory; there are Serbs and Catholics who also have cross-glories, and therefore this should not be limited to Orthodox people. Let a hundred or a thousand of them just, they must be provided for in this provision. And there are Muslims, I suppose, still, who have preserved the glory of the cross. Most of them are not, but still some of them remember what their glory was, and some of them will rebuild, celebrate, especially when they get a day off. As far as Catholic Christmas is concerned, the provision should be rephrased in the same way as the Orthodox one, except it would apply to the faces of the Catholic religion, and if it falls on Sunday, it certainly does not work, there is nothing to add. At Islamic holidays, I think it's well taken -- Ramadan Bayram and Kurban Bayram, and among the members of the Jewish community it's also well taken. So, it should be thrown out that when the holiday falls on Sunday, another day is added. We need to reduce the number of days, not increase. In Article 5, the basic problem - first, the Holy Sava should be defined as a day of spirituality and statehood, as Meeting can only be a day of constitutionality. Saint Sava, not only is he a beginner of modern Serbian spiritual, but also of state-of-the-art traditions. What separates St. Sava from all other Orthodox saints is not that he was a Serb, but is the founder of the modern Serbian state, the founder of the unfailing state of thought and the tradition on which the modern Serbian state rests. And Vidovdan is not a holiday mentioned in the Kosovo Battle, but rather a traditional Serbian holiday, since when Serbs exist as a people, from pre-try Christian times. The Serbian old faith was not a religion like Roman or Greek, with several gods that had anthropomorphic shape. The old Serbian faith had no anthropomorphic gods. She had one supreme god, Perun, who was directly accepted, or Saint Vid, or Yaksha, or Vojin, in different names appeared in different roles.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10645	It's been six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10646	I'll add the next five minutes. When the Serbs received Christianity, they took over the largest number of customs, fluids, the tradition of their old faith. Their old faith was also basically monotheistic. They didn't change anything that mattered. This can be seen in the works of Nodil, in the works of Veselin Tzakanovic, even in the book of Miodrag Popovic "Vidovdan and Honorary Cross", as the cross of the Serbs dates back to pretry times. When the Serbs lived in northern Europe, they had a large sanctuary on the island of Rigen, in the Baltic Sea, and there was a huge temple built in St. Vida. The temple was destroyed in the early Middle Ages by Germans and Swedishs, forced by the then northern Serbs to move on to Christianity. Of course, there is also a campaign to erase as many flows of the old Serbian faith as possible, but it simply was not possible to do so. As a result, some other Christian nations attack Serbs to be heretics, attack Serbs that their church is heretic, etc. Not only Catholics, there were many Orthodox people, and that should be considered. That is why we should celebrate St. Vid as a Serbian national holiday that unites the Serbian national tradition of memory, since when Serbs exist as a people, and their memory has been for thousands of years. Then, Vidovdan is the day of the Kosovo Battle, Vidovdan is also the day of the Sarajevo assassination, Vidovdan is the day of the great democratic constitution of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, one of the most democratic constitutions of its time, etc. Of course, and it's recently been a great shame, right on Vidovdan, when the greatest betrayal in our history was committed. It's something that makes us all sad, all honorable and honest Serbs. We hope that redemption for this great sin will follow through the application of criminal sanctions and through the redemption of all state institutions that have actively or passively participated in this. In this case, both St. Sava and Vidovdan should be unworkable days, unless they fall on Sunday, which would not be extended to another day of celebration, or unhappiness. It would, therefore, be a serious law on national holidays that would include religious holidays. Of course, all faiths would be adequately respected, by taking too much care of the faith of the majority nation as in any other country. All religious holidays, Orthodox holidays, are respected in Western Europe. However, the working days and the national holidays are determined according to the dates on which Catholic or Protestant holidays fall. That's one practice we should practice here to apply. In this case, therefore, with a little bit of goodwill by the legislator, a good holiday law could be made, which would be a lasting value and no one would ever need to change it again, as the ruling set changes. It would be a great danger for us to have every new government passing its own holiday law. That should be the point and therefore should be avoided dates from the near past, which would be declared holidays. The principle should be - while there is a man alive who remembers that event, it cannot be declared a state holiday, as there is a principle that while a man is alive, he cannot be raised a public monument and cannot be given his name to the streets and institutions, etc. It is, therefore, in accordance with one of those principles. (President: 10 minutes and 15 seconds. ) If the legislator has a good will to prepare this law, he should also accept a whole series of amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS. If such a constructive atmosphere produces a truly good legal text, it will be one of the acts to which this National Assembly can be proud. Unfortunately, such acts have been very rare so far. As much memory serves me, we haven't had nearly one, if those declarations or resolutions are excluded on the Kosovo-methological issue. Other acts of this kind, unfortunately, we didn't bring them. I hope that the time will come for such acts to appear, which will be one-heartedly stood by the entire National Assembly, in the belief that this act really should look that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10647	11 minutes and 30 seconds. The minister, as a promoter, only has the right to take another word for it, so it is my duty to remind you. Please, the word has been made by Minister Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10648	In view of what has been stated in the remarks of MP Vojislav Seselj, the fact is that the meeting, in a certain way, marks constitutionality. The fact is that the declaration of statehood is automatically incorporated that it is constitutional because there is no modern state without a constitution. So I don't think there's any need to add statehood and constitutionality. It means both. Second, the Easter holidays are celebrated throughout Europe in the same way and there are no more days here than we had in the previous law. Third, this celebration extends to the first day of work only applies to Article 1; the fourth position of Article 3 refers only to Meeting (if the meeting falls on Sunday, then the first day of the next day, which means Monday), and not to other holidays. So there's no time lost here because of the day off. I think it's an account taken to find some elemental measure. The rest is rhetoric, linguistics, as you call it, etc. I think the point is in the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10649	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a Messenger of the people, Pal Shandor, and after it the messenger of the people, Huric Zeljo.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10650	Dear colleagues, allow me to say a few words about the law that is subject to today's debate. I think of all possible dates, of all possible days to be celebrated, which may be suggested for celebration, from an ideological aspect of this date that is proposed -- the best. At least there's a reason for him to be criticised, with various aspects, especially if we look at it from a minority angle. This is the most neutral, which is something that makes a significant tradition of the Serbian people, that is, Serbia. In that sense, I intend to uphold the law and vote, of course, for him. I also wrote some amendments, i.e. one amendment that takes a little care of the style formulation and the more precise formulation of the first member. I expected, and perhaps that could happen, that the government itself would propose an amendment to the holiday, the All Saints, if possible, as we had agreed, or discussed. I think the government's proposal takes care, and he's a compromise -- very good, on some two traditions in the Serbian people. On the one hand, about the Karadjev tradition and on the other hand, about the Obrenović tradition. It is fortunate that these two things happened on the same day, but the first Serbian uprising is certainly something related to Karadjordja, for an explosive, violent and fiercely-provoked revolution. This second day around the Sretenjski Constitution is something that is political tactics, outwitting, agreement and understanding of the context of the political forces that Milos Obrenovic has taken into account. Therefore, if this date is adopted by the National Assembly, I think it will do the right thing, because it will lead to some reconciliation, the reconciliation of any latent conflicts over two general lines in Serbian politics. I would also like to say this, yes, if we look again from a minority aspect, the Hungarians really don't mind and we wouldn't mind celebrating that day. The team, before the Hungarian press from day to day, was very actively monitoring the events of the First Serbian uprising. What was happening at the southern borders of Hungary is a real small chronology and a whole collection of documents could be made about how the Hungarian press reports what is happening on the southern borders. Thus, the Hungarian courier, for example, brought news on April 17th 1804 that the rebel army numbers 30,000 people, and on April 27th, the paper says this: in all the uprisings that have occurred in the Turkish Empire, current events in Serbia are the most fierce and glorious. A whole series of news, I said, we find in newspapers day by day, so there's even one drama that's 1812 before the uprising collapsed, played on Hungarian theatre scenes. Her author is Istvan Balog, and he wrote the drama "Cserny György vagy Belgrád megvétele a törököktól", which means "Serb-vodge Georgi Petrovic otherwise called Montenegro or Belgrade's ottije of Turks". Out of many aspects it is a very important theatre piece, because in the Hungarian text you have incorporated Serbian folk and civil songs, and Serbs, the Budim merchants have richly rewarded the author of the drama and actors who participated in it. And there was also the most famous actress, performing and singing songs in Serbian. It should be said that this happened at the Hungarian theatre "Rondela", where Joachim Vujic, with half of the Hungarian theatre troupe, and that means with Balog himself, performed the performance "Krestalica" in 1813, the first more modern theatre performance with Serbs. Therefore, when we consider all these contexts, I think there is really no reason why such significant dates for the history of the Serbian people, which point to relationships with others, are not celebrated and are thus legally not regulated. In that sense, I will support this law, by making more arguments when my amendment comes, which I have proposed as a small archaicisation and precision of the already existing formulation, in order to see the finger of that Happy Constitution in the new text. It's not an invitation to archaize everything, it's an opportunity to show some similarity to the 1834 Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10651	The word has a People's MP, Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10652	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People, honourable members of the Government, honourable citizens, I really thought that I was discussing a little wider under this law, but given the limited time I would limit my discussion. I want to speak because my ideals, which in words are very ordinary, simple, are: truth, righteousness, equality, right to diversity. Among other things, the right to differ. Believe me, when I say this, I don't want you to understand that I'm looking at things from a national aspect, because I'm much closer to the views of a Tagor or Monteskie than I am to many who sit here or who have determined the paths of all nations in this area. I'm the law in my first member for me and it's not that unacceptable, but in the second term, I think he's carrying something we should talk about here. It is my opinion that this member who says, "The Republic of Serbia celebrates religious holidays, the first day of Christmas and Easter holidays, starting on the Big Friday, ending with the second day of Easter. "I think it carries a certain amount of repressiveness. The first position, in Article 3, brings into position those who do not celebrate that holiday to celebrate it. Because the first position in Article 3 says: "In the holidays of Articles 1 and 2. (i.e. this Article 2.) State and other bodies, undertakings and other forms of organisation shall not operate for the purpose of carrying out operations or services. "So those who do not celebrate those holidays will be forced, since they do not work state institutions on that day to celebrate. I think it's a form of repressiveness. On the other hand, there are certain doses of discrimination. In the same level, that member does not bring members of other religious communities. After all, this law is largely unequal. Why? If you look at Article 4, which says: "Employees have the right not to work on the days of the next religious holidays and that: Orthodox - on the first day of the baptism of glory; Catholics and members of other Christian religious communities - on the first day of Christmas and on the days of Easter holidays, starting on the Big Friday, ending with the second day of Easter, according to their calendar; members of the Islamic community - on the first day of Ramadan Bajram and the first day of Kurban Bajram; members of the Jewish community - on the first day of Jom Kippur. "Calculate the number of days off. Orthodox people are in an unequal position compared to other religious communities. Why? Because Orthodox people have fewer days of work than others. For example, members of the Islamic religious community, since they don't do all those religious holidays that belong to Orthodox people, don't work for another two days. One based on Kurbanski and one based on Ramadan Bajram. So one day they have more in terms of working days than Orthodox people. Catholics even more. So, in the end, a man might, in some situation, be able to accept things that don't make sense. And if it's possible to find the right solution, why would we do that? I truly hold that there are at least two models of this law, which can equalize all members of all the religious communities and all the citizens of the country in which we live, and that none of the citizens or members of this or that religious community lose what is prescribed by this law. How can you do that? By adding points 3 and 4 to Article 2 in addition to points 1 and 2 in addition - members of the Islamic religious community and members of the Jewish community. But to regulate it with Article 3 or a new attitude in that it will be celebrated only in those environments where the majority of the population of the feast is celebrated. In this way, we took away rights and Orthodox people, and we added their rights, or placed them in the same line with members of other religious communities. So I would ask the members of the government to reconsider this law once more, to sit together if necessary, to discuss this proposal and see if we can find a more adequate solution. I'm afraid this solution will still not achieve what we wanted. And we wanted to improve human rights and, above all, collective rights. After all, I believe, gentlemen, that Serbia's particularly Democratic opposition should take account of this and not allow this law, as it is proposed, to be at odds, i.e. completely contrary to Article 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10653	There is a word from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10654	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that in the current course of the debate everything has been said and I think we will repeat ourselves in criticism and support for certain members of this law. It's important to say that the proposed law we're looking for that part of social and state identity that's been lost over the past 60 years and that what we're proposing today, in those five members of this bill, we're trying to find a minimum that will identify our society as a whole. When we talk about holidays, we talk about the days in which the state and society are simultaneously reminded of the general values that are in themselves indisputable to anyone. If anyone in this law recognizes the danger and attempt to reduce human rights or any kind of freedom, then we deserve one serious comment to remove such doubts, perhaps by further argument. I think we owe each other a correct approach, and so I'm going to try to remove the kind of dilemma that, in my opinion, has seriously questioned one good intention. So, as a new government, we face the need for reform, the process of change, they can be life and they are daily. But they must also be symbolic, because you will admit that there has been a lot of and tragic, but also in a fundamental sense, dysfunctional in the celebration of July 4th, July 7th, and that there is a lot of non-solid in the celebration of November 29th. Every time we meet eye to eye with a calendar and figure out what we missed out on, we try to find a mild argument for that kind of negligence. So, by this law, we didn't question someone's human rights. Human rights are determined by other laws. By this law, we have not taken away the right of anyone to realize their freedom and to underline their identity, but by this bill we are trying to establish symbolic frameworks for a new society. And in such a way that they will never be challenged again. When we say that it is the day of the statehood of the Republic of Serbia, that it is February 15th, we are taking away the right of anyone, normally human right, to recognize in this any kind of political or legal violence. There were some who have defined the countryhood of the Republic of Serbia in such a way. I think that with this careful work of the commission, and the work of the commission was attended by representatives of various ideological concepts, including religious ones, we managed to find something that is a minimum that will not be challenged, at least if there is common sense in this society. As for the relations of working days and work days, it is clear that the day is not working, the day is the statehood of the Republic of Serbia and the fourth paragraph of Title 3 sets out the clause arising from the flows of democratic societies. So, as the day of statehood is being treated in all the countries of the European Union, so is the Republic of Serbia. It's the same with religious rights. The law of faith determines, precisely and in detail, the right to religious freedom. We have allowed this law of national holidays to be celebrated and that it has the support of the law. We did not leave it in the Labour Law because we felt that it was a humiliation to something that was fundamentally right to that end. But we also did not insist on fundamentalism, but rather want a secular democratic society. In this bill, it's not all binding, in the sense that it forces and deprives anyone of any kind of freedom. If we say that Christmas is a bad day, it's just because we think, since 70% of the people in this society stand out Christmas as a day that especially marks it, because it's dysfunctional to keep it in any other state when it's obvious that it's going to be used for the celebration. That doesn't put anyone else's freedom at risk. All other religious communities have even more days of unemployment, and this fellow MP correctly noticed, but it is not to the detriment of Orthodox people. This is the right that comes from religious freedom and which is what it is, it should be respected. When we define ourselves as a religion, then we define ourselves as certain rights and obligations that that kind of definition follows. I think we need to agree on this law, because that's how we go back to something that is a minimum and build a system of values that can be expanded. I don't think he'll ever run around like it's been done in the last half century. And it seems to me that through the bill of this law, we recognize one great truth that many have tried to escape from. It's true that the world doesn't start with us in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10655	The word has a folk MP Velimir Simonovic, followed by Predrag Bajcetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10656	Ladies and gentlemen, since the debate has been shortened for five minutes, then I have to change my concept of how I imagined talking about this law. With a little goodwill from the government and with respect for at least a few amendments submitted by MPs, even me, we could get a really valid law that would have long-term use. That didn't happen. Therefore, this law is not quite correct and it would be fair for the government to withdraw it today and prepare it for one of the next sessions, if we really got the right and valid law. I don't want to talk about what I'm going to talk about, now it's no use anymore, I just want to say that the main remark - is my amendment to Article 1, so you have to be careful when the amendment comes to order. According to our Constitution, you can't put a church holiday on behalf of a state holiday. You can't say that Meeting is a holiday of statehood. The holiday of statehood is February 15th, and the church will celebrate Meeting in its own way. Look, in this country, a third of the population are not Orthodox at all, and meeting them doesn't mean anything, and of these 66%, probably half the atheists, and meeting them doesn't mean anything. Second, why it bothers to say that it is a state holiday, or statehood day on February 15th. As for other holidays, Christmas, Easter and New Year, both on Orthodox and Catholic calendars are not national holidays, but religious holidays have become civilization holidays throughout Europe. You don't work those days. I agree that really big Friday shouldn't be a day off, he's never been in early Yugoslavia. Now we have another problem with national holidays. It's St. Sava and Vidovdan. They were never unemployed, nor in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, but the Holy Sava is an excellent holiday school, Vidovdan can also be a holiday school. On Vidovdan, the students were given testimonies, books were distributed to students, schools had money to buy books, etc. These holidays can celebrate other social and cultural organizations in a way that they find appropriate. It's working days. There's no mention here of May 1st, it might be federal law. It's an international day of work and it's celebrated by all nations and it's long gone. And it's supposed to be a rough day for us, too, but when it falls on Sunday, there's no passing a day off on the next day that's working. If it happens on Sunday or Saturday, the story is over. So, so much in the principle debate. Otherwise, by 1941, there was relatively little celebration, but since 1945, we have been full of celebrations and holidays. It begins from the day of security, the day of the police, the day of the army, and the day of the uprising, and the day of the battlers, and the day of the sailors, so I don't know what was being celebrated, and if we all gathered together those holidays that we celebrated, it would be almost 60 years. We can have a good laugh at it all. Now we need to get in the way of that. One state holiday is quite enough, that's February 15th, and that's another as it is done in other civilized countries. I'll get back to you when my amendment to the 1st member is, and I'll say something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10657	The People's Messenger Predrag Bajčetic has the word, and after him Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10658	Ladies and gentlemen, it's very difficult to talk about a law like this in just five minutes. I think it's our decision to speak only five minutes hasty, and probably as a professor, I'm not used to talking for a while. That's my shortfall. I won't be able to explain what I think and what this law has to say. We have before us the first time in this House a system law that we do not recognise. I think it's our fault. This law needs to change our system of thinking, and we, in one very easy way, take away the value and take away the importance. I will vote for this law because its basic solution is good. It has well determined a state holiday, but voting for this law also obliges those who have created this law, those who propose this law and those who attack this law to make only a few remarks. The first remark is that the title of the law is absolutely inappropriate. There's a game of hide-and-seek. It's the Law of State and Other Holidays. This does not mean, in fact, anything to the rest of the holidays, because in the government's explanation, other holidays are referred to as one special category. What is fundamentally skipped is in the title, that it is a law on national and religious holidays. There's no reason to play hide-and-seek and not be the word "faithful" in the title of the law. Is there any such thing as this? The second holidays, and whether it exists with this explanation written by commentators, that it should be celebrated on a work basis, because it is marked in a dignified way. Is working marking a dignity mark? The holiday's being celebrated. What does it mean to be working? It is written in the old laws when it comes to the Holy Sava that it is a school holiday and that the school celebrates it. It was said that Vidovdan is celebrated with meaning in churches. These are clear and pure formulations. The form of a work celebration is one freak coin. These punitive coins in the text of the law have, in my sense, too much, and what now seems to be a joke, suggesting that Mr. Pal's MPs be put in part of the Sentinel Constitution, is actually a very important reminder to me. Our legislators should learn to write laws in one way that allows the wealth of Serbian language to exist. Don't take away our language wealth. The law is so tight, and especially the shrub where it should show its imagination. He declares the Holy Sava a day of spirituality. What does that day mean? A day of battle, but a holiday of joy, a day of youth, but a holiday of love. That's how it was in earlier laws. Why do we accept that the Holy Sava is the day of something? That word bothers me more than your controversy about constitutionality and statehood, and it bothers me more that it has been defined as the day of the Serbian state, because not only must the Happy Constitution be understood, but also the First Serbian uprising. In fact, the first Serbian uprising is a cornerstone that we have to think about historically. The main thing is, Thanksgiving and everything else, it's taking over certain foreign influences that we don't need right now. Thank you for young people's day and all those days. Let's have holidays and be unique in celebrating them. What seems most important to me is that Mr. Pal's reminder that language should be enriched and that the language of our rights and our legislators must be changed. I think we're an unhappy people that we don't have laws, not current laws that represent the spirit of the 19th century, but that we don't have laws preserved by the 19th century. Let's do something for our Serbian culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10659	The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic has the word, followed by MP Zarko Obradovic
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10660	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in principle, is sending us proposals of law after a series of laws that will have long-term negative effects on the state and the people. A few relaxing dots have been inserted, as long as the Vlachs can't figure it out. And I could call this bill one relaxing bill, which, after the June 28th coup, serves a little bit like a man hung over by a large amount of booze, is recommended by a rasol. What has all this been solved by this country since DOS took over, so we get to state holidays? When we've already reached the state and, as they've called them, the rest of the holidays, because some of these holidays here have been called that way, what does this law predict? The bill promoter says the government wants us back in the world tradition. And how does the DOS government treat Serbian citizens and those who are their competitors? The DOS returns us to the darkest part of the era that marks Nemanja, which is the father who killed the father, brother brother, father blinded the son, son of the father, and about now this poor, unaccounted for by the lack of age waiting for us from DOS. Anyone who is opposed to DOS, anyone who has ever performed any state function, anyone who plans to win the elections at any time, and performs the state's function, will pass as individual Germans by their loved ones. Our only happiness will be that you and DOS can never be called the nearest. Article 1 The bill, with the remarks that have been made so far, wonders me, why this day is not called the Meeting of the Lord, why it is called Meeting and who emphasizes it to Meeting. Isn't that the Meeting? Despite the fact that grammatically pures could find some inaccuracies in this excuse, this holiday is called the Meeting of the Lord, and it is true that this is the day when the Serbs showed that, past the will of the two great forces of the then, Russia and Porta, they are ready to have a state and give themselves one constitution, and it is true that no one recognizes this constitution and that after that, we had to accept each other. But we're proud of this happy constitution and if there are days that can be marked, I think it's the Meeting of the Lord and that some commission that has been doing a good assessment of when it can be poured a little bit, to give a cold lining to the people, in front of a new package that will bring the people into even more despair. What's wrong with this bill? What we predict to Article 2 is that we celebrate five days for Easter, what we predict when the Lord's Meeting falls on Sunday to move in one day, and if something happened on February 15, and a lot of big things happened, something that history will forever remember, and how do we move it on February 16th? Why even predict what the communists have predicted so far, that every day can be moved, or even one church holiday, or even one date that is just February 15th. It is not good in Article 4 that they are said in point 2 to have the right not to work on the days of the next festivals — Catholics and members of other Christian religious communities. That's one vague term. Each sect can regard itself as a Christian religious community, and some MPs treat many sects as small religious communities. They were taking it out of this assembly pay phone. (President: 5.30 minutes. What's that gonna do, what's that gonna mean? Finally, there is one more thing I want to say about how DOS is choosing this exactly Vidovdan, although the Kosovo myth cannot possibly relate to DOS behaviour and to the thinking of the vast majority that is in DOS. (President: 6 minutes. There is much to see, and among other things there is the marking of the Kosovo battle. Ask yourself, if you're not reading anything else, what's the name of the Warrior, Jaksha? Ask yourself how much the Serbian Orthodox Church has taken over from our old faith, because it knew that it must not face the people, seducing something and excluding something that has characterized us for thousands of years. (President: 6.30 minutes. ) Ask why Christmas Eve is marked, and is it anywhere in Christianity except for Serbs, and how has it been with Serbs since when? Ask Rigen if there's a statue of Peruna that didn't bring down those you're courting now. (President: 7 minutes. ) I recommend, since you are in the majority, that you include the 4th of July mandatory. Judging by that column of over a thousand of you waiting to bow down to America on her day, I am convinced that you must accept that day at some time. If you must, today let's regulate it with one amendment, so when you're making a fuss in Belgrade, it'll be on this day.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10661	I ask the People's MP, with an excess of 2.15 minutes, not to violate the Rules of Procedure more strongly than we must. The word has been given by MP Borislav Pelevic, as a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10662	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a law on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia certainly represents a better solution than already existing national holidays. But I think it's a mistake in the title, because it says - a bill on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia. I have proposed an amendment, and in principle I suggest that the name of this law be changed and that the bill on national and religious holidays be read, given that other holidays that are not state and non-religious are not treated at all by this law. So it's not about New Year's, or May 1st, or other holidays, it's only about national and religious holidays. They are religious: Christmas, Easter, Ramadan and Kurban Bayram and Jewish Yom Kippur, and state: State Day, St. Sava and Vidovdan. That's why I find it very appropriate to change the name of this law itself in order to be appropriate. Secondly, one principled remark is that the Day of Statehood of Serbia - Meeting of the Lord, is celebrated on February 15th in memory of the 1804th and 1835th. But it is clear to all of us that the state of Serbia has not only existed since the year 1804. Respecting this solution and respecting these great holidays in our history, we must understand that the state of Serbia exists much earlier than in the 1804th year, so I tend to say that it may be a better solution to be the day of constitutionality, because then the first Serbian constitution was adopted, even though the Dusan code may in some way be considered the highest act of a state as it was then, in Dusan's time. I proposed an amendment, and now I suggest that both Christmas Day and Christmas Day be celebrated in the Republic of Serbia, as the first and second days of Christmas, as the days of unemployment. I suggested it for a few reasons. First of all, as you know, Christmas is a family holiday. Christmas Day is also a great holiday, a day of preparation for Christmas. On Christmas day, you're not going anywhere. He's celebrating in the house, in the circle of his family. But on the second day of Christmas, Orthodox Serbs go to their loved ones, to their relatives, to their friends. How will it go if that day they work or their relatives and friends work? That's the first reason. The second reason is because Orthodox Serbs are in an unequal position with this law, because they have one day less than Muslims and even four days less than Catholics living in Serbia. Therefore, these are two good reasons why unworkable days should be Christmas Day and the first and second day of Christmas. Also, I find it a bit incomplete to define the day of the Holy Sava as a day of spirituality. As is known, our children have accepted the feast of St. Sava as a school holiday, for he was our first and greatest Enlightener. Therefore, I believe that the full name would be the day of spirituality and enlightenment, because that day should also be unhappi because of our students, our disciples, who have been celebrating that day for years as their holiday. These are just some of the principles that I thought had to be made. It is also an incomplete name - the Day of Remembrance of the Kosovo Battle, Vidovdan. I think it should be a day of importance for the Kosovo Battle, but also a day of reminding all of us that Kosovo and Metohija must never be left aside and that we must never separate it from Serbia and Yugoslavia. So these were principles of principle, and I will also supplement them in particular with certain amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10663	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, followed by MP Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10664	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, proposed law on national holidays, in my opinion should not be accepted for three reasons. First of all, because of the incomplete, incorrect and arbitrary explanation of the end of the so far state holidays. Second, the wrong and insufficiently justified reasoning concerning the proposal for a new statehood day of the Republic of Serbia. Third, the reasons behind the motion itself. I am opposed to being abolished as the Statehood Day of the Republic of Serbia on March 28th, because that day in Serbia's history marks the establishment of a legal and territorial unity of the Republic of Serbia, thus finally losing elements of the statehood they had on the basis of previous constitutional solutions and thus integrating autonomous provinces into the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the above-mentioned constitutional solutions in the manner of organisation and composition of the Federation and the Republic's bodies, as well as in the way of decision-making, were autonomous provinces being a constitutional element of the Federation and as such influenced the affairs of the Republic of Serbia, but also of the then federal state. In practice, it has become a process of blocking decisions of importance for Serbia as a whole. Autonomous provinces had their own constitutions and could pass laws without the consent of the Republic, and the Republic could not pass any law, nor any other regulation, which would apply to the entire territory, without the consent of the provinces. This further speaks of the importance of the 1989 constitutional solutions, which gave Serbia the opportunity to make decisions on its own throughout the territory of the country and all its citizens. Also, I am against the suspension of July 7th as the Day of Rebellion, because that date has great importance for the Serbian state and its citizens. On that day, Serbia joined all the free-loving democratic states of the world, which respect and defend their freedom, justice, sovereignty and integrity of the country, and began fighting the fascist forces, Germany, Italy, and their satellites. The second world war ended with the victory of the democratic forces and the defeat of fascism, as the greatest evil of the 20th century, and all the countries -- winners and participants in World War II, proudly celebrate dates related to the start of the fight against fascism, or for certain victories over fascist forces. Yugoslavia and Serbia have made a major historic contribution to the overall struggle and win over fascism and have quite enough reason to be proud of the fact, as well as the basis for the 7 July celebration as a holiday. Secondly, I think there are more significant dates in Serbia's history, which could have been taken as a day of statehood, compared to this proposal. Namely, the beginning of the uprising has a historical significance, as well as the 1835 Constitution, but not what is given to it, except that the first constitution, he in Serbia's history, at least in the constitutionality, has no greater significance, since six constitutions have been passed over the past 100 years. I think you could choose another date, if you already wanted to go team during, as a day of statehood of the Republic of Serbia. For example, he could have been taken on July 13th. It is the day when independence is recognised at the Berlin Congress of the Principality of Serbia. The day from Serbia's History also says that at the secret session of the National Assembly of Serbia, held in Kragujevac, it was said, among other things, that independence is the basis on which states become and provide their future. So I'm thinking there were even more significant dates compared to those that were proposed. And the third reason why the law cannot be adopted lies in the very nature of the legislator -- it is about the government of the Republic of Serbia, which, because of its actions, on Vidovdan, on June 28th, discredited itself as the promoter of state holidays. In each country, there are two basic values, which are the condition of progress, survival and the development of the state -- these are the Constitution and the attitude towards the citizen. What about the government that does not respect the Constitution, which violates the Serbian Constitution on Vidovdan and counter-delivers its citizens to The Hague tribunal? Serbia's constitution prohibits the delivery of our citizens, and the government violated that provision on June 28th, Vidovdan, delivered Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague tribunal. What about the government that disrespected its citizens, who on Vidovdan, 28 June, kidnapped the citizen Slobodan Milosevic from prison and delivered him to The Hague tribunal? That says, shows what the government thinks of the holiday it also proposes. This government, unfortunately, is not sacred, respects nothing, neither the Constitution, nor the citizens, nor the national holidays. The only thing that matters is the benefit. Because of this government's behaviour, she also discredited herself as a proposing because, to make proposals, except for the change - the changes are not detailed or detailed. For this reason, I believe that the holiday law should not be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10665	The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10666	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every nation in its history has significant events and dates, which marks and celebrates, and most often these are events such as the creation of a state, unification of the people, liberation from the occupiers and colonizers. Of course, there are other events, such as defeats, betrayals, that are marked in memory, that never happen again. See, June 28th, it's one of our biggest holidays. On that day, back in 1389, the Serbian army resolutely opposed the far superior Ottoman Empire. Defending their freedom, honor and dignity, all Serbian heroes, and the Emperor Lazar himself, laid their lives on the altar of the country. In recent history, June 28th will remain remembered as the day when the treasonous hand of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or rather say,...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10667	I ask the MP to pay attention to the epithets addressed to state institutions and other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10668	Or rather, Djindjic, Batic, Mihajlovic, were handed over Slobodan Milosevic to the Hague executioners, a man who was also a symbol of freedom and resistance to the NATO Pact, modern occupiers, a man who remained a symbol of freedom and resistance, not only in Serbia and Yugoslavia, but also in Europe and the whole world. The day, June 28th, will remain remembered as the day NATO's pact was executed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10669	I ask the People's MP that the National Assembly's address book must be made up of facts and truths, and I ask you to be careful with the strong dictionary and to express your views and to make assumptions about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10670	The extradition of Slobodan Milosevic, June 28th, was done on purpose to humiliate the people, and it absolutely succeeded. But the perpetrators of that act must know that history has already condemned them, and that the people will condemn them very quickly and that God’s punishment will befall them. Of course, June 28th will also be a memory of responsibility, the responsibility of Vojislav Kostunica, who is now unsuccessfully trying...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10671	I ask the MP to, or return to, a subject called - your position and comment on the law on national holidays and to remember the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the manner in which the MP address other Members of the People, or the Prime Ministers, representatives of other institutions of the Republic of Serbia and the presidents of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10672	I suggest that the state holiday stay on March 28th. Why - that day, Serbia united after years, or established sovereignty or constitutional law in its entire territory. With the 1974 constitution, Tito's communists and Serbian vases brought the Constitution that divided Serbia into three parts, and where Kosovo and Vojvodina had greater powers than Serbia or Serbia itself. Given that these tendencies continue today and are in full swing, of course now in new clothes and under a new name, such as regionalisation or decentralisation, and what is the situation, the best talks about relations with Montenegro, which is at its lowest point, the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, where no member of the government should go. And you criticized us - why we didn't go and we went.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10673	I remind the MP that the assembly speaker is a place where facts must be presented if the National Assembly is to be respected. Each flat rate and any offensive tone is subject to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10674	Please, a few more sentences. I believe that it should be adopted on March 28th, at least MPs who voted for the government of Zoran Djindjic, as a sign of repentance, because they voted in favour of the government that made such a shameful decision -- the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic, on June 28th, on Vidovdan.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10675	The word has a folk MP, Sladjan Mijlovic. I ask the MPs once again to remind themselves of their obligations to turn off mobile phones in the National Assembly session room. Excuse me and be my guest, Mr. Mijlovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10676	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 1 of the law I think is undeniable, it is a good suggestion that the meeting be the day of statehood of the Republic of Serbia. On this big and Orthodox holiday, and it is important for the Serbian state, the first Serbian uprising was raised on that day. However, the meeting is not only a symbol of the struggle with saber and cobour for Serbian statehood, it is also a symbol of political brooch for the democratic state, for a country where people's rights will be respected. After rebuilding the Serbian state, the people's representatives demanded a constitution, either a constitution or a dam, or a restriction on the authority of the books and people around it. As a result of that struggle, the Happy Constitution was brought in. At the 1835 meeting, Serbia first received the highest legal act and was named for the act - the Constitution, which we also use today. Other solutions to the bill are difficult always to reach consensus, and when it comes to national holidays. However, regardless of some details that can always be different, this law rests on good principles and should therefore be supported. So far, the right to celebrate religious holidays has been regulated by the Labour Law, which was the right of working people. Celebrating Christmas, however, is not the right to work, is not the same kind of right as a regression or a warm meal. This bill finally respects history, tradition and reality. Celebrating religious holidays doesn't mean, either, just not coming to work. On the contrary, it is only a condition for the holidays to be celebrated as religion and customs enjoin. The earlier solutions stemmed from the supposed complete separation of faith and church from the state. A very simple and banal example of this principle: In practice, an ideology was realized that interpreted the need of the people for faith and God by ignorance to explain the appearance of lightning or thunder. This ideology has come to an end, and thus the realization of Christmas as well as the rights of working relationships. Some faith issues, of course, still need to remain separate from the state, but let them not, because what is not entirely, which is a deep part of the people, cannot be completely separate from the state. The people make up the state, so it takes two more conditions, territory and sovereign power. Further, in history, there is no known people without religion. There are, however, today and nations without a state. The state is a historical creation, created by the people among other things and to protect some of their values. That's what this law does, not to degrade them, how they did before the laws. When history is rebuked, faith and customs are represented on television as a cultural and artistic programme, and religious temples, the sanctity of the people, as cultural and historical monuments. This law rests on sound principles and, for these reasons, regardless of disagreement on some concrete solutions, it is necessary to vote for its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10677	The People's MP Dr Jovan Deretić has the word, and after that, the MP of the people, Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10678	The Honorable Madam Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, each nation has its national and national holidays and its religious holidays. One of the characteristics of the Serbian people is that we are a people of very great traditions and a people of three religions: Orthodox, Catholic and Islamic. Our national holidays must be based on our tradition, and our religious holidays must take care of these three religions. In this law, which is good not only as regards religious holidays, equality is given both to the Islamic and Jewish and Catholic religious communities. However, as regards the national holidays, which are proposed here in Article 1, which is to be a meeting for the Constitution and the First Serbian Constitution, and on a proposal from the Commission to determine state holidays, it is said in a statement that the members appointed in that commission are prominent scientific and public workers, I must tell you that they may be good people, but they are bad people. This first proposal, the first point of the state holiday law, does not stand. Whether we call it a state or constitutional day, neither one stands. No matter how we turn around, we'll make a mistake. Gentlemen, there has been no Serbian nation since the first Serbian uprising. This can't be a national holiday. The Serbian state doesn't exist since Karajordje. This can't be a state holiday. The Serbian constitution does not exist since the Sretenj Constitution and this cannot be a constitutional day. That's why I think this first law enforcement should be deleted. Unfortunately, the minister has escaped, and there is no one to hear me except the MPs. Serbia has not existed since the First Serbian uprising. If we don't know our history at least to Nemanic, then we don't know anything. She's far from Nemanic. If we were to seek the day of Serbia's constitutionality, then it would be best to take the day of adoption of the Dušan Code, which was the constitution a couple of excellances of that time. He's not the first Serbian constitution either. There are older Serbian laws than Dusan's code, which could be accepted as a constitution, but we just don't know the exact days of their adoption. As for Christmas, Easter, I think that thing's okay. It's only that it shouldn't be extended from Sunday to Monday. Whatever we do, we're not gonna do the right thing and we're not gonna make a good law. I suggest it be taken as a national holiday, and it's being introduced everywhere as a holiday, not just as a working holiday, Vidovdan. It is seen as a holiday of Serbs of all confessions, because it is one day that goes far into our history, which brings us out of Christianity and binds us to the roots of our pre-Trerian faith. Vidovdan would respond as a national holiday and as a kind of festival of the unification of Serbs of all confesions. While the meeting is, don't forget again, the rise of Serbs of Orthodox faith against an Islamic empire. There's sound and religious brooch. I wanted so much to distract you, that this bill, its first point, is completely wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10679	The People's Messenger Aleksandar Radosavljevic has the word, and after him, the Messenger Mujo Mukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10680	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the restoration of the Serbian state in the 19th century certainly is one of the most important segments of our history. Fate or something else, she wanted two events for the Serbian people to happen on one day. Fate or something else is taking us as a people again through events of similar significance. And from the beginning of the 19th century, as today, Serbia began to build its institutions destroyed and crushed in the previous period. As in 1835, the meeting, and now it is possible to quote the words of Prince Milos, and to be current and not to add a single word to it, nor to take away. The beginning of the first Serbian uprising in the 1804th year has affected later events in our history. Thirty-seven years later, Serbs were already on the same day worrying about how to settle national affairs, how to determine the obligations of citizens at the most targeted rate and on the most just basis, but that all the Serbian debts in the previous period were settled. Something similar to what we do today in the Republican congregation. Therefore, the importance of these dates proposed by the applicant is extremely large. In the material that we have received regarding Article 1 of this Law, we have had the opportunity to see that through certain amendments some fear that the mention of the Festival of Meeting will undermine the equality of citizens, guaranteed by the Constitution. With this proposal, I'm free to say it, no one is offended. This does not violate the Constitution's guaranteed equality of citizens at all. After all, this law had the opportunity to give a number of institutions, NGOs, and nowhere else, and I had absolutely no opportunity to see a single remark. It says enough that the right dates are really selected, with the right historical value. This proposal does not jeopardise the interests of other concessions, nor does it put them in an unequal position. On the mere mention of the meeting holiday, you can say that you have said the synonym for constitutionality in Serbia. All the more important events, and this has already been mentioned by my predecessors, were tied to the great church holidays. To state the 1869th and third Constitution of the Serbian Library, brought to the Spirits, 1921st and the Vidovdan Constitution of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, brought to that day. And this law, I'm free to say, like the other laws in this assembly, can carry an epithet of historical. In Serbia, it was celebrated, I must say, on July 7th as Fighter's Day or the Day of Rebellion of the People of Serbia. The communists knowingly avoided mentioning one harsh truth -- that at the same time it was also one of the greatest shames of Serbs. A certain Zikica Jovanovic-Spanac who is then becoming and a folk hero shot the Serbian Gendarme patrol and killed Serbs: Sergeant Bogdan Loncar and his companion, Corporal Milenko Brakovic. Does anyone in Serbia know or is this historical fact consciously hidden? The event does not deserve to be a stone-maker of the uprising of such great proportions as the rise of the Serb people. Never did socialists who swore to the Serbian heart make an effort to correct this injustice and to stop celebrating such a holiday or a day that can only symbolize evil in Serbia. But what could have been concluded from the celebration of this day is that communists, and then their successors, knowingly wanted to mark the day of national disgrace, demonstrating at the same time the willingness to sacrifice their own people if the party had ordered. It's never happened since July 7th, and historians know it well, they couldn't compare it to the uprising of other peoples in the former Yugoslavia. This is the example of the Montenegrins and their 13th of July. At that time, 30,000 Montenegrins rose up against the Italian forces. It was, in its own time, a phenomenon in enslaved Europe. If they have, perhaps, the right to celebrate that day, surely the Serbs were wrong on their day, July 7th. With this bill of law, we can stop marking ideologies, both country and people tragic, holidays. For fifty and more years, we marked something that could never be compared to the rise of the Nuts or the adoption of the Sretenjski Constitution. I mentioned at the beginning of the words of Prince Milos and his word in that famous Happy congregation, which could now be repeated: "From last year, thank God, we have become human again." It was only a year ago that Serbia again became a state. That's why I think we should vote for this law. Thank you. [[Applause to DOS MPs]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10681	The People's Messenger Mujo Mukovic has said, "Let the People's Messenger Goran Cvetanovic be prepared."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10682	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, we have before us a proposal for a law on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia. The government has proposed abolishing the so far, many ideological, state holidays and replacing new dates that have greater significance in Serbia's history, and why not say so - and in the history of the Serbian people. That's fine by me. It's something the citizens expected. It was also proposed that this law define the celebration of religious holidays that had been governed by the Labour Law until then. In itself, this is not controversial, although most modern states regulate the celebration of religious holidays by special laws. But what is controversial in this bill is the fact that in a multi-confessional state such as Serbia, Orthodox religious holidays stand out from others and practically rise to national holidays. Such a bill would be acceptable if the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provided that Orthodox Christianity is a state religion. Since that's not the case, 'cause Article 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees the equality of citizens in rights and duties, regardless of religion, the bill is against the constitution. The declaration of Orthodox religious holidays for non-working days for all citizens introduces the principle of obligation to celebrate religious festivals, not volunteering, as it should be, and to members of other religions and atheists in those days, even the right to work is abolished. That right is also guaranteed by the Constitution. For members of other religious communities, the principle of volunteering remains, where Article 4 says "employees have the right not to work on the days of the next religious holidays", then lists the days. By applying this law, if adopted in the proposed text, we will be in a situation where in municipalities or enterprises, state and other bodies, with a marked majority in the structure of employees, for example, Islamic or Catholic religions, Orthodox Christmas or Easter is an unworkable day. So, at all times as a state holiday. The legislator did not seem to have enough hearing when it comes to the equality of all citizens with regard to the celebration of religious holidays. It can unnecessarily produce a sense of imposing other people's holidays. Especially if the proposal comes from the government, which enjoys the trust of a vast number of these minority communities. Ambassador of the Sandzak Democratic Party and the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, I must say that Bosniaks who, otherwise, are members of the Islamic religious community, did not expect such a legal solution to celebrate religious holidays, especially if this legal solution is compared with the Law on the Celebration of Religious Holidays in Montenegro, for example. He treats this matter in one way, I'd say, a much more acceptable way. So the principle of volunteering for religious festivals has been violated and would have to be respected to the end. I therefore call on the proposing representatives to withdraw this bill, in order to do so and to give the Assembly a new proposal that would respect these, certainly, legitimate objections.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10683	The word has a folk MP, Dr Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10684	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this proposal for a law on state and other holidays, provided that the amendments to Serbian radicals are adopted, can be one of the few proposals proposed by the DOS government, or position. Although, I have some dilemmas, first of all, because I see that some DOS MPs are in favour of this bill, and some are against it. The head of the MP group, Cedomir Jovanovic, is not present to clarify whether or not they are present for the bill. I have made an amendment to this bill that the holidays of St. Sava and Vidovdan are unworkable days. You know that the DOS MP has proposed to the last Assembly that Vidovdan be an unworkable day for our MPs. Although I submitted the amendment on June 7 after Vidovdan, I am in a great dilemma. When my amendment comes, I'll explain it, and now I'll just focus on that dilemma. There are many clues in Serbian folk beliefs about the mono-divine deity, about Vid. With faith, that name and celebration day were preserved. Those who suffer from ocular disease turn to the Holy See to spy on them, heal them. On Vidovdan there is a plant of psychics dedicated to the Holy See. On Vidovday before the sun, springs are visited and washed, after a psychic plant is inserted into the water. In Kosovo, it is said that before Vidovdan, in the deaf of night, all rivers flow red for a moment, like blood. On Vidovdan, the coward ceases to whine. In Serbia, after being freed from the Turks, it is customary to mention on Vidovdan the missing warriors and evoked the memory of them, or heroes. In the early sighting morning before the battle in Kosovo, the majority Milos Obilic also said: "what we are today, we will be forever." In the late afternoon of the Lord’s summer of 2001, who is who, who is faithful and who is unfaithful, and who is sold for a grain of rice, this time not Murat’s, but the white - world saw. I'd say legalists, constitutionals, laws, honor, morals and divine justice. They cast dust in the eyes of the Holy See. They sent him, sent him a day, condemned him, found him guilty of Serbian martyrs and all Serbian heroes. The cowards sang on Vidov day, and showed the true face. It deprives the Serbian people the satisfaction of judging the wicked for all evil in the past 10 years, both those in the country and those in the black and white world. He washes the face of NATO villains. On this Vidovdan, they saw blind, I guess. The question is asked of our Serbia - where are you, who are you going to take you, where are they taking you? There's a lot of questions without an answer. The truth is, it's a totalitarian regime, the worst in Serbia's history. It is about the high treason of principled interests and the hypocrisis of moral principles, the collapse of the entire system of values. And finally, let me not forget to say the most important thing: you know, the one on the list, the one behind which there was a lot of little gourds, you know, he didn't know what was going on in his shade. He wants to wash his hands of the Chancellors and his little leaders and so naively win by himself...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10685	I implore the People's Messenger to use the language he speaks to the People's Messengers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10686	I'm done. If you feel called and found, that's another thing. You naively acquire what will be needed, votes or at least support. And in the end, since I can see that you're interrupting me and it's not over yet, I'm saying that if some people knew they were so small, small.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10687	The word has a folk MP Milan Radulovic, followed by Vladimir Dobrosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10688	Dear fellow Members of the People, the liveliness that follows the debate on this law testifys to us that there is a simple, short, but fundamentally important law on the agenda. The Law on National Holidays is so important that the state holidays of a state demonstrate in a symbolic way the historical self-awareness of a nation and the citizens of a country; in a symbolic way they also express the cultural self-awareness of a nation, while at the same time seeking to direct the cultural, political, social and civilizational efforts of a nation in a particular direction. This law is, as we see, completely different from the previous; it is indeed fundamentally reformal. With this law, the Serbian people and the Serbian state come out of the space of wandering through the mazes of utopian ideological consciousness, returning to the flows of real historical experience, and clearly legitimateise their belongings to the Christian civilization circle. Let's take a brief look at the basic members of this bill. Meeting as a state holiday has been found truly extremely happy. The commission that chose this state holiday had not only enough historical knowledge, but also intuitions, and I would say, and enough luck to choose this very holiday. Meeting is both a folk holiday and a church holiday. The meeting in the people is celebrated in memory of some pre - Christian civilizations, when time was measured by nature, or when the natural circle of time was measured. At the same time, the meeting is the opening of a new time dimension, that is, Christian time or eternity. It is a cultural vertical that connects all layers of our culture, all dimensions and all the energies that participated in the creation of Serbian culture. On this vertical, there's a historical horizon. On one side, we have a 1804th year as a symbol of the desire for an independent and independent state, and on the other hand we have 1835 a claim for a fair and democratic state. So, the meeting's on the cross sign. We have in its cultural vertical and we have a historical horizon that clearly shows us which civilization we belong to, (Christian) but which clearly determines anything our task in political work, what our idea is the leader of the leading star in the organization of the state. The idea of leadership is an independent and independent state, on the one hand, and on the other hand, a democratic and legal state. Statehood Day, so it's not just something that determines certain events from the past, it's something that guides and binds us in the future. It doesn't matter so much if it's been chosen in 1804 or 1835; whether the statehood day could have been moved much backwards (and, of course, historically, it is). It's about the historical and cultural meaning of these days; not the day itself, not the event itself -- but the meaning to which it can radiate. All the holidays that are scheduled here as state holidays are open; they are not closed, their meaning is not canonized. Their meanings were determined by our ancestors, will be determined by our descendants; and we, as contemporaries, will determine the content and meaning of these holidays. Nothing's been given in advance. This law just illuminated us, marked some basic landmarks in our culture and history, drawn a good coordination system of our decent and our cultural existence. It's a system that we need to treat and take care of, and try to be worthy of him. Of course, religious holidays are meant as national holidays, with us somewhat less of this law than in other European countries. But all right, and the peasant when he's got a lot of work to do, he says, "God prays, he's a saint, but there's got to be work." As our standard grows, the number of Christian holidays we will celebrate will likely grow. The special value of this law has shown that Serbia, with Serbian patriarchal and Serbian civil culture and society, is open to all confessions, to all nations, and that those in Serbian culture have a completely equal place. Without a desire to pollute, I mean, no religious community has anything against any day that's defined here as a holiday. When it comes to the fact that this law favors Orthodoxy, then it is said by people who view human rights and democracy as a new utopia, not as something that is real. It is realistic that all religious communities understand that they live in an Orthodox state and that it is natural that Orthodoxism is first among the equal. One must always be first among the equals. And finally -- since my time is up, I'm sorry, Madam Chairman -- let me just say this one more. The value of this law is that I believe a full national consensus can be reached about it. I see no nation, no ethnic group, no religious community, no political party in Serbia who can have anything against any of these days that is legally defined as holidays. It may not be equally hearty for those days, but I don't think anyone has a reason or a chance to be. Therefore, as a law that allows consensus to be agreed on in one important issue, the cultural and historical orientations of the people are extremely good, with all the respect for the objections and the amendments that have been given to them. Therefore, the Democratic Party of Serbia, like all other parliamentary clubs, will gladly accept this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10689	The People's Messenger Vladimir Dobrosavljevic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Alexander Vukić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10690	The Honorable President-in-Office of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is another law that establishes the civilization's cultural vertical of our country and citizens who live in it and who return to the foundations of the identity of this country, which has been built for many centuries, but has gained its modern civilizational form in the beginning of the new century, that is, the beginning of the 19th century. First of all, what is the great, perhaps the greatest historian of the 19th century, Ranke called the Serbian revolution, beginning at the Meeting of the 1804th year, therefore, one seeking to form a modern, European-style state from the beginning of the 19th century that culminated in the Happy Constitution in 1835. In fact, this law provides for a few things in itself. It predicts national holidays, predicts folk holidays, religious and international holidays. That's why his name, as it is, of this legal solution, is appropriate, because it would be too gross to name all other holidays that are regulated by him. On the other hand, when it comes to the name Meeting, I must remind you of one thing. In the 19th century, the people thus named their holidays in Serbia. The meeting is not a religious holiday but has its own folk term, as the Serbian people called it in the 19th century. I remind you, most of the population of Serbia in the 19th century did not even know about the calendar, but formed their lives towards religious holidays and hence, and all the events that took place in the 19th century are usually related to some of the great religious holidays. Because of this, meeting in the name itself is not some kind of inequality of other Serbian citizens, other ethnic or confessional belongings, but rather symbolises the unity of the same people, so Serbian citizens. I will remind you of the 11th chapter of the Sretenjski Constitution and all members of the constitution regulate the equality of all citizens of Serbia before the law and before the Constitution. So, about some kind of discrimination, religious or confensual, there can't be a word about it. On the other hand, when it comes to folk holidays, it should be noted that this time they are taken by the Holy Sava and Vidovedan as the festivals of the people. Most peoples, European and civilized peoples, have one of their enlighteners or one of their saints whose day celebrates. I remind you that it is in Ireland St. Patrick, Russia St. Sergei Radunjeski, Bulgaria's St. Cyril and Methodius, England's St. George, Hungary's St. Istvan, Armenia's Holy Georgia Enlightenment. It is natural for Serbia to celebrate the most important lighthouse that has established something that has introduced Serbia into something considered Western civilization. He brought Serbia and the Serbian state to Christianity, the Eastern ceremony of course, but in any case it is not against any concept, any other religious or ethnic concept. On the contrary, the Holy Sava is respected and celebrated not only in Serbia but also in many other Balkan countries. After all, I will remind you only of the cult of the Holy Sava that rules in Bulgaria, especially around the city of Trnovo. It's a sighting day, as much as it may not be the best parallel, what might best be called a burnt day for the country. Indeed, on June 28th, we remember all those heroes and all those heroes who through Serbian history, any ethnic or confessional community that they belonged, gave their lives for this country. I will remind you, at the Serb battlefield, that in Kosovo color, on the side of the Serb army and on the side of Serbian principalities and Serbian dignitaries were not just members of the Serb ethnic community. There were Poles, Ugara, there were Albanians, there were Genoavians. So you can't talk about any national exclusivity when it comes to this holiday. He's simply a reminder of what the Americans have, Remember Day, the day I burn for my country, all those who gave their lives to make the state the way it is. After all, as for the planetary holidays, which obviously caused the biggest dispute here, which is, above all, Christmas and Easter, I'm going to remind you of one thing. So, Serbia as it is, I repeat, belongs to a Western civilization circle, in which Christianity is the leading monotheist religion and therefore does not question the implementation of the influences of other confesions, other religious and ethnic communities. I will take again the example of the United States, which is listed as an example of a multicultural or multi-confessional state. Of the nine national holidays of the United States, five are tied to religious holidays and this Christian civilization circle. In Britain of eight to six, therefore something that has been accepted in general, and Christianity is already a great planetary value, as I think it is Islam, as I think it is Buddhism. In any way, it should not be discriminated against and considered that in this way, in any way, members of other confessional or ethnic communities in this country are discriminated against, on the contrary. In the end, just two more things. What's very important in all of this is that the commission that was working on this proposal did seem to be extremely respected people. First of all, I would like to mention the chairman, academician Mrs. Jovanko Kalic, Professor Ljubodrag Dimic, academician Slobodan Vitanovic, Mark Lek, members of other ethnic communities, Mr. Cedomir Antic. These are the people who have done their job in the best possible way and who have introduced us into a traditionalistic thought, which is that the way to the present and the future is the fastest way through the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10691	The People's Messenger Aleksandar Vukic has the word, and then Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10692	Ladies and gentlemen, the MP group of the Serbian Radical Party in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia considers this legislative proposal better than most legislative proposals, which the assembly majority, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, have given to adopt to the National Assembly and the People's MPs. In fact, there are things here that seem to me that every citizen of this country can accept as reasonable, rational and as a certain improvement compared to previous legal solutions. The MPs of the SRS have already spoken the mark of February 15th, the Meetings of the Lord, and now I would point out to those MPs who either do not know or do not want to see the difference between the importance of that date and some other dates, which is why this day is extremely important and why it can, in the right sense, be celebrated as the day of the constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and not some other date. In fact, if you're talking about what was in the previous period, in the 14th century, if you're talking about the Dushan code, there's got to be a significant difference, first of all, in that Dushan's code doesn't regulate constitutional law matter in the right sense of that word. It is a codification of ordinary legal rules, which could be subdued under criminal and civil law and law law, but in no way in the modern sense word constitutional law. This Serbian constitution has not been valid for long. On the contrary, it was very short and said that it was not in place, because immediately after the constitution was adopted in 1835, there were major problems among those who were Serbian enemies, but also those who were Serbian allies, and wanted to limit Serbia's sovereignty, Serbian freedom of the Serbian constitutional and legal state. Right after that, you know, in 1838, he was brought in and so on. The Turkish constitution, under pressure, of course, to limit the freedom ideas that existed in the so-called "freedom". The Happy Constitution, that is, the Constitution adopted by 15. February 1835. The day is particularly important also because of the uprising raised in Orasc in 1804, for the simple reason that, whether it was a planned and deliberate struggle to establish Serbian statehood in the first period, it is a struggle to establish a modern Serbian statehood from the beginning of the 19th century. It seems to me that this date should not be a problem for anyone in the National Assembly, especially if that day is compared to, say, July 4th, when several suspicious people gathered in a house in Dedinj and they reportedly decided to lift up all over the former Yugoslavia some sort of uprising and so on. I don't know what they were doing. In history, it's very controversial. Also July 7th and many other dates. It seems to me that this is one day that we can really accept as the day of Serbia's constitutionality and that would be different from Statehood Day, because the Serbian state has existed before, although in the modern sense of words it's hard to talk about true statehood without the constitution, but this can be called Constitutional Day, because in what sense the existence of the first states counts, we had a state and so it would be good to distinguish this in such a way. That is why I urge you to accept the amendments of the SRS MPs in the debate in particular. As for the objections made here by some representatives of other religious communities, above all by the Islamic religious community, I would only say that, as far as celebrating religious holidays -- Christmas and Easter, I have to notice that this is the same thing being celebrated in all those countries that some say are democratic, and I don't think they are democratic countries. I think it's a civilization fluid. In time, when I lived in Britain, they celebrate all the holidays there, both for Anglicans and Catholics, who are the same, both Christmas and Easter or for any other. So they must also accept the Arabs, who are Islamic religions, and the Indians, who are Hindu religions, and those who are Buddhist religions, and for them it is a national holiday. Then why would it be an insult to anyone in the Republic of Serbia? Then why would it be an insult to anyone who is not a Serb and Orthodox religion? As for the holiday and celebration of St. Sava's Day, as it is said, some say it is a school celebration, and I, above all, think it is important to say that St. Sava entered history, and later became, apart from the enlightener and saint, by the canons of the Serbian Orthodox Church. (President: 5.30 minutes. ) Second, St. Sava is best known for being the founder of the first Serbian archdiocese since 1219. It seems to me that this is one of the things that can also be called the day of spirituality, for it is the parent of both our churches and our entire spiritual life. I don't think there should be any disputes here. (President: 6 minutes. ) As for Vidovdan, Saint Vid's Day, the largest Serbian national holiday... Voice from the O.R., come down. ) (President: I ask the MPs to respect the Rules of Procedure and do not receive while the speaker is exhibiting. )......................................................................................................... It seems to me that much is related to Vidovdan, and not by chance, in Serbian national history, to the history of our people, in these areas, from the Kosovo Battle of 1389, through the assassination of Sarajevo to the Austrian Crown Prince, to the 1921 Vidovdan Constitution, which was the democratic constitution of the Kingdom of SHS, until it was abolished by the King's decree and the seduction of dictatorship. (President: 7 minutes. ) So it is a historic day, apart from what belongs to Serbian tradition, one day in which we celebrate both Serbian victims and Serb martyrs and Serbian suffering. Unfortunately, and with that I would end up with, it is unfortunate that such a legal proposal is submitted by most of us in the National Assembly, the majority who not only humiliated this holy day and this great holiday, but the majority who did something that we hope to forget and that we will not remember, because it is a terrible shame for Serbia, a terrible shame for the Serbian people, that on the great Day of Holy Vid, on a Serbian national holiday, you arrest Serbs and send them to The Hague, you send them to those who bombed and destroyed this country. I am sure Serbia deserves better, that Serbia can do better and that Serbia will soon understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10693	I suggest we start this better for Serbia by respecting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has an MP, Zeljo Huric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10694	It's really wrongly interpreted what I said. I never once said that celebrating Orthodox holidays is an insult to any religious community, but I said it was simply illogical and not right. On the other hand, this comparative analysis Mr. Vukic made here, comparing some countries from the West, the democratic state, does not stand. Namely, there are members of other religious communities, especially when it comes to members of the Islamic religious community, immigrants, people who have been found by emigration movements quite accidentally in these countries. Here, in these places, we, members of the Islamic religious community, are indeed an indigenous people, a people who have lived there for centuries. So we're in the same context and we should enjoy a completely different rights. On the other hand, Mr. Vukic, doesn't it seem completely illogical to you, for example, to one city, Tutina or Brodareva, one town in Prijepolje, the municipality from which I come, where 96% of the members of the Islamic religious community, do not work primary schools and all state institutions during Christmas and work during Bajram. This is what they do, look at the law, because between the state holiday of Meeting and the holiday that the Republic of Serbia recognises by Article 2, there is no difference, because it is regulated by Article 3(1) and (2). At the time of the holidays referred to in Article 2(1) and (2), state institutions shall not operate in the same way as during the national holiday. Look at the better law and analyze it and you'll see that it's one illogical thing to correct. We can correct it in such a way that nothing is taken away from the rights of members of the other religious communities provided for by this law. There are models. Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Replica, misrepresented me. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10695	The people sent by Zeljo Huric did not mention the name of MP Vojislav Seselj. I can't give the People's Parliament a word to Alexander Wolf, because this was a replica. There's no replica in the Rules of Procedure. There is a word from MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group And what is the basis for the replica? [[Vojislav Seselj, from the site: I was looking for a replica.]] (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: he misread me. He didn't even mention you, Mr. Seselj. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: then according to the Rules of Procedure.) There is a word of the People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10696	In the same way that Mr. Zeljo misrepresented me, it could have been considered that Alexander Vukic misrepresented him, with the same argument and with the same evidence. You don't have any proof that Alexander Vucic Zeljo Huric misread. You gave him your word. You may have no proof that Zeljo Huric misread me, but on the same basis you must give me the word. Since you do not give me your word, it is obvious that you have broken the Rules of Procedure, and now that I am behind this speaker and when I have told you that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, just to correct Zelj Huric, briefly, it is not true that in Western European countries only Muslims are immigrants. That's just not true. A high percentage of Englishmen, Frenchmen, and Germans already go to Islam. For example, one of the greatest living French philosophers, Roger Garody, has moved on to Islam. So Islam is an indigenous religion in France, both in Germany and England, but there is a minority religion there, as is minority religion here. People there from Christianity turned to Islam, as they did here from Christianity to Islam. There were no other Muslims in our territory, except those who were already Christians, so they moved on to Islam. This process exists, and now it's much more intense in England, France, or Germany than here. I don't remember here for the last few years that there's been a transition from Christianity to Islam, and that's where it's happening, and it's getting more and more massive.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10697	I thank the People's MP. National MP Vojislav Seselj has advertised a violation of the Rules of Procedure in the denial of the right to replication, where, in an imminent explanation, it consists of a denial, MP Vojislav Seselj commented on the presentation of MP Zelj Huric that he was wrong. I can't give the right to a replica because you think the MP doesn't have good information. I think I've proven that I'm going to give a word to everyone, that it's not at all controversial, just to finish -- so, the quote of your replica consisted of an explanation -- whether or not Muslims, indigenous population or settlers. [[Vojislav Seselj, from the place: He has the right to the replica of me.]] That is not what you spoke of, as a people's messenger, in the matter of the matter. That is what the Messenger Zeljo Huric spoke of. I understand that you have the right to believe that he does not represent facts and truths, but that is not the basis for replication. Do you want to vote for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Zeljo Huric is looking for a right to replication. ) The fact that you mentioned the violation of the Rules of Procedure, he said nothing offensive about you, or demeaning you, or misrepresenting you. I am sorry, MP, there is no basis for a replica in the presence of MP Vojislav Seselj. There's a word from MP Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10698	In the second position, Article 114 states: "If the MP leaves the National Assembly Hall and leaves it in the MP's unit, or next to it, his card, the service of the National Assembly will immediately deliver the card to the Secretary of the National Assembly. The card will be returned to the MP upon entering the hall." We've talked about this 20 times. You voted the Privatization Act on the 27th, to your shame. (louds from the O.R.): That's not true. () Indeed, it is true, and you have more cards than MPs all the time, and we have determined that the people did not choose cards, but MPs. Therefore, once you have established and given the order to the services that each one does his job. Even Micovic, when he complains, is not worth it again, because it's simply a sad truth about you, and when we talk about this law, then we'll talk about who's stealing and lying, but for now we'll stick to this, that you steal and lie all the time by...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10699	I ask the People's Parliament to communicate with the polite language, when it already violates the Rules of Procedure and talks with the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10700	By polite language, I communicate with one that is possible. And to you, as chairman, at least three times so far I've told and shown, and proved that what I'm saying is true, you're the only one who hasn't (you stay still, I haven't asked you anything, the dead -- you're talking to the messenger in the O.R.) took what you need to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10701	As far as the dead end is concerned, I am. On the left eye minus 8, on the right eye, with retinal aberration, minus 8.70. (Stevan Gudurić, from the O.R.: I have not spoken to you and do not comment. ) For the sake of the other MPs, I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to address the MPs with respect, even when you are brought with emotion on any matter. Therefore, MP Stevan Z. Guduric warned that Article 114(2) is being violated in that when a MP who leaves the hall leaves his identification card, the service of the National Assembly delivers that card to the secretary of the National Assembly. I will inform the secretary and the service of the National Assembly that we are all doing our jobs, and I ask once more of the MPs that they too do the work really out of their jurisdiction of the MP. There's a word from MP Zeljo Huric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10702	I shall advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure in Article 6, in the first position, which shall state the reasons, i.e. the situation where the MP has the right to reply. Besides, it's said "if his exposure is misread", which is quite evident here, because I hold to it that Mr. Seselj misread my words. In one part, he's right, in the part where he says that in some countries in the West there's expansion of Islam, but that doesn't mean that those who receive Islam in those countries are an indigenous people. As members of Islam, they are like people who live there indigenous, but not indigenous as members of Islam. On the other hand, what you said about how Islams occurred in these areas, it's very disputable, I'm not going to go into that topic now, but in any case, I'm always in the mood to talk to you about it whenever you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10703	National MP Zeljo Huric warned of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I remind you, MP Vojislav Seselj has requested a replica of your presentation. He received the answer that there was nothing offensive or false in your presentation, and as far as the SRS and him were concerned personally, or that would give room for wrong interpretation. Then, MP Vojislav Seselj asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure and to explain that he had the right to reply gave his view of the subject of the indigenousity of Muslims, by receiving religion or residence, so that your basis for the replica cannot be the fact that Mr Seselj has determined the right to comment on the general position. Just to explain, since, I'm trying to follow. There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj. I'm just explaining. (Employer Seselj, from the place, according to the Rules of Procedure.) I had no doubt, MP Vojislav Seselj, please. Just a moment, if you can wait, I apologize for the MPs to plead...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10704	You have no right to add words to me I didn't say. I didn't say a word about the residence. Don't put that on me now. Neither was it possible for me to talk about someone's residence, nor was it possible to use that word in any other sense. As far as autochtony is concerned, I've expressed my position. That attitude is very clear. Autochton is the Englishman who receives his will Islam. Such English already have tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands. There are already over 100,000 indigenous Frenchmen who have received Islam. That's a fact. Don't tell me about the residence, I didn't even mention it. Words I don't say, I don't allow you to put them in the context of my exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10705	With the right and with apologies, I would like to say, that this is about people from Western Europe, you are right to intervene and I apologize for misquoting in an attempt to round the subject. There were no bad intentions, but the path to hell can be paved by good intentions, so I apologize. You did not say the place of residence; that is understood. The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and after her, the Messenger of the people, Miroslav Christodulo.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10706	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there is a law on national holidays, which after decades regulates this area in a way that is somewhat but not entirely in agreement with this proposal, the Serbian Radicals also advocate. However, what is indicative here and what the MPs from the still majority DOS coalition show, and also Minister Batic himself, who appeared as a representative of the motion, is that he fell into my eyes, and I believe that all those who follow this transfer, that it is the pledge of the DOS majority, that the great festivals of the Serbian people, the holidays that mark our spirituality, tradition, the constitutionality of our country, are actually just a mere symbol in the folk sense of words for DOS MPs. Because if they were to see Vidovdan and St. Sava in the right way, as sincere Serbian patriots, and behave in the spirit of consecration, Orthodoxism, they would not do what they do today, they would not in such a way violate the Constitution and all the legal norms. On Vidovdan, the largest holiday of the Serbian people, would not deliver Serbs to The Hague tribunal and would not play with what is most important in one country, which is respect for the Constitution. We Serbian radicals advocate that Vidovdan, and St. Sava's Day, Savindan, are not working days. That's very important, because it doesn't take much to say without Serbs knowing it. Children who learn that in schools, what it was all about the Serbian people did to St. Sava, and that he became the impenetrable value of our history and an infallible guideline at all the historic crossroadss and the impasses on which the Serbian people have been found throughout the centuries. Unfortunately, we, today and today, are in such a situation, pressured by everything here, with the help of DOS officials in Serbia and the SRJ, are doing Americans and Western forces, which aim to destroy everything that is Serbian, to destroy our statehood, our spirituality and our entire Serbian tradition to throw under the feet. Through the centuries of the Holy Sava, the Serbian people experienced and thus accepted. It is necessary for Savindan to be an unworkable day, for it to be a guideline for future generations, and also for the day of St. Sava to be a day of statehood. Because he is the founder and one of the most important in our Serbian history, which paves the way for the development of a modern Serbian state, so Minister Batic himself should accept such amendments, as well as the DOS majority, Serbian Radicals' proposals to make Sveti Sava a day off. In view of that, too, the sources of rights in medieval Serbia actually came from St. Sava, because in 1219, returning from Nikeya, he brought from Thessaloniki some church regulations, which were then translated and which were applied at that time, as citizens' law. So, as a people who have a great tradition, we should respect that and, of course, future generations are raised precisely in this sacred and Orthodox spirit. Because of all that is yet to come to us and because we will have to fight for what the Serbs have been saving through the centuries, and what we do not have in occupied Serbia today. We have to fight for our freedom and we have to prove to our people that without keeping such traditions, without keeping the Constitution, without respecting all the positive legal norms, we cannot survive either as a state or as a people. On the other hand, it is very important to define the feast of the Meeting of the Lord, and not how it is incorrectly said here by someone who swears to us that he is a great Christian, a Orthodox, so that he will also enter into the name of his foreigner, such as Minister Batic, who says Meeting all the time, instead of meeting the Lord. What the Serbian radicals suggest should be accepted, which is to be the day of our country's constitutionality and to be the day of statehood. The day of constitutionality for reasons, which until 1835 we Serbs had no Constitution, because Prince Milos under the pressure of the people and elders only then, reluctantly, accepted that in Kragujevac, at this great Christian feast of the Meeting of the Lord.... (President: five minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... It declares a constitution that never, in fact, I end it, has not been revived, but has been suspended after a month, because it has bothered the great powers, which they have called revolutionary and in some way contagious, as they have said. This constitution, regardless of what it did not live in the true sense of the word, is something that meant to the Serbian people... (President: six minutes. ..... which should mean to all of us today that our Constitution and the laws that should be respected in this country, and above all, because I will remind you of the fact that the Happy Constitution established a congregation of 100 MPs and that without a majority decision, and so it was prescribed by this constitution, they could not impose on the people and more civil rights were prescribed.... (President: six minutes and 30 seconds. ....................................................................................................... And today we live in a country where, starting with the president of the SRJ, who keeps pretending not to see, and what he's humming at one eye, that's his problem, starts with the one that's... (President: I ask the People's MP not to violate the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure on polite address in the context of an exaggeration. ....................................................................................................... At the head of the Serbian government, we don't have the Constitution today, unfortunately, we don't have the laws, you've suspended all of this by your will, serving the Western powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10707	Thank you, seven minutes. The Messenger of the people, Miroslav Christodulo, has the word, and after him is the messenger of the people Nenad Lemajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10708	Respected members and members of parliament, the abolition of the so far state holidays on July 7th and 28th is for every support. Although the anti-fascist struggle is one of the civilization's flows and no matter who led it, I agree with the proponent that there are more significant dates in Serbia's history since July 7th. It is especially desirable to abolish March 28th, so-called Statehood day. The day constitutional amendments to the Socialist Republic of Serbia constitution that abolished the autonomous provinces, and at the end of the line, opened that chapter in our history known as the break-up of the SFRY. On that day, 22 Serbian citizens died in demonstrations in the capital of one of the then abolished autonomous provinces. And on February 15th, 1804th, the day of the first Serbian uprising was raised. It is the beginning of the creation of a modern state of Serbia. It's the beginning of national liberation, a date similar to the beginning of the French Revolution. However, there are constitutional problems regarding the mandatory celebration of religious dates. The problem isn't religious holidays like that. In accordance with Article 41. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, all citizens have the right to believe and celebrate their religious holidays. The problem isn't even about unworkable markings. Believers also have the right to do so, also in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 41. This has been resolved so far by the Labour Relations Act and the current Bill on State and Other Holidays is offered in Article 4. The problem is the obligation of unworkable marking. Article 13 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees equality in rights and duties, regardless of religion, of all citizens of Serbia. In Article 35. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is guaranteed the right to work, regardless of what the right is used in employment. But in a targeted interpretation of the Constitution, some citizens would lose their right to work if they had to celebrate a religious holiday that is not in their religion. Even more than that. If you're an atheist or agnostic if you believe in a divine being, and you don't want a church as a mediator, you have a problem with it being necessarily an unworkable Orthodox Christmas. So, January 7th, and your ritual or your atheism requires something else. The arguments of the legislator of this law, and when he refused the amendments submitted by us by several MPs, it comes down to the fact that it is in the Western states as well. So, indeed, in some countries of Europe, I did research in Sweden, Norway and Denmark, there really are Easter and Christmas as mandatory national holidays, non-working days. But Lutheran Christianity is a state religion there, so it's in the tradition of these countries. So, since our Constitution is as it is, I think it is good and in that sense that Serbia is a state of citizens and that citizens are equal in rights and obligations, regardless of religion, I don't think religious holidays should necessarily be unworkable days. Also, the argument offered by the promoter, when he responded to amendments proposing a university celebration of all religious holidays, that it is difficult to organise the process of work because 70% of Serbian citizens are reportedly not enough to argue. The Constitution cannot be broken because it is difficult, almost impossible to implement it. The law must follow the logic of the Constitution, and if there is anything else in practice, it is fine. But we have to try to respect the Constitution, so in practice how it turns out. Also, statistics offered by the proposing that 70% of Serbian citizens are Orthodox religions are not true. Orthodox people make up 70% of believers, but not all citizens are believers. And, the quality of that faith, it's also controversial. For example, one survey by the Media Agency shows that there are many who plead as believers, but already on the question of how often they follow religious services, it is seen that almost 40% does so once a year or less. They can be funerals or celebrations. Or never. When researching the attachment to the Canonese faith, something else comes along. There's a lot of fashionable and pagan in the faith here. Belief in higher power and so forth. The second survey, published by Politics on June 25th 2001, says 41% of Serbian citizens do not believe in God, 23% of Serbian citizens believe and 36% think they believe. So these are superstitious people who believe in horoscopes and hypnosis. Also, research is saying, let's say 18.6% of citizens answered that they don't know what 10 of God's commandments read, that it's impossible to obey and survive thoughts 23.1%), and 45.7% don't respect 10 of God's commandments at all. Only 12.6% obey these 10 commandments of God. Instead of Protestant countries, we should look up to Montenegro. There are two laws there. One about national holidays and the other about the sanctification of religious holidays. Article 4 of that law states (since the first three have everything that is foreseen in Article 4 of our Bill), therefore, the right to the academic celebration of its religious holiday. Article 4: "The state authorities and authorities of local self-government, public enterprises and public institutions, whose founder is the Republic, i.e. the municipality, are obliged to ensure that during the religious holidays set out in Article 3 of this Act, the performance of its functions is ensured". He means the Montenegrin law. ) Thus, the sanctification of religious holidays is permitted, but not in state bodies. The church is separate from the state. For all this, I believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should withdraw this law and offer us two other laws. One on state holidays, with February 15th as a state holiday for the Republic of Serbia, and another law, according to the one from Montenegro, on the sanctification of religious holidays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10709	There's a word from MP Nenad Lemajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10710	The Honorable Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, the law on state and other holidays is the result of what we had in the previous period. No matter what defiances, first of all, in reasons, it needs to be adopted and supported. The day of Serbia's statehood, otherwise, historically, is not easy to determine. This, above all, depends on whether we define that day of statehood in a non-deficient tradition, and it is of paramount importance in the history of the Serbian people. Because it is during this period that the Serbian people form as a medieval group. Or we'll look for it in the modern tradition of the Serbian nation. By opting for a date related to modern Serbian history, the promoter chose, in my opinion, a happier solution. First of all, because in this way he has not only set one significant date, but has defined himself for an event that will pave the way for Serbian history in the coming period, so we can say until today. An event such as the Orasac uprising, a revolutionary and liberating national, and another related to the legal normisation, or the adoption of the Sretenjski Constitution, at that moment of one of the most modern constitutions in Europe, offered by Dimitrije Davidovic. No matter what these events were in some way halted by major forces, they undoubtedly reflected the aspirations of the young Serbian nation, which sought its place in the history of Europe at the time. There's something else that needs to be said about the bill. Namely, it's about state and church holidays, religious holidays. It's like there's a dilemma about a part of the MPs. First of all, we need to know that Christian faith has importantly determined the history of mankind in the last 2000 years. And some other significant religions, such as Islam, of their roots to the wolf right out of Christianity. For these reasons, Orthodox holidays have practically become part of tradition and history in broad spaces. As such, they have been accepted in all modern states. People in those countries don't ask questions about the origin of the holiday. Whether they are believers or not, unbeliefingly, they celebrate those holidays with a soul. We can cite an example of the United States, a country that at least declares itself a multiethnic society. Right there, most of the holidays they celebrate are founded in Christianity and their origins are Christian holidays. The famous Dane of Gratitude, with which the United States is so proud, has a religious basis. Let's not talk about Valentine's Day. That's not what questions are about. Well, why is there one such question here? Apparently, some people have forgotten their identity. Apparently, they've been building their identity, their national identity, from history for the last 50 years. If we forget about our religious holidays that now have a different dimension, then we only have July 4th, July 7th and similar holidays. People who do not return to their history, who do not find their foundation and their roots in that past, have no perspective in the future, and the Serbian people should certainly not be a people who will have their sociology. It's a people who should have and who have their own history, a little repressed, a little forgotten, but now is the time to bring it back, and that's why this law is welcome, regardless of certain shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10711	The word has a folk MP Tomislav Panajotovic, followed by Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10712	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, if so far there have been conditions to object that certain legal projects declared by this assembly have not been organised by a broad plebiscite debate, then it is hard to say for the law that is currently in front of us. From 1996 to 2000, the largest number of cities, where more than two-thirds of the population of Serbia live, is defined for the dates they will celebrate, for days of their cities that have nothing to do with ideology. So they're about dates that history has verified. I'll list just a few of them, with an apology for saying the accent used in Pirot, given that there was a dilemma. Belgrade celebrates Spasovdan, Novi Sad celebrates February 1st, 1749, for reasons one of our colleagues will explain. Nis celebrates January 11th, 1878, the day Nis was released from the Turks. Kragujevac celebrates Djurdevdan, 6 May 1818, when the Serbian capital was transferred or transferred to Kragujevac. Then, Sokobanja celebrates June 21st, 1837. The year my colleague Vojislav wrote here, Prince Milos sent the first tourist to Sokobanj. Pirot celebrated on December 28th 1878 when Piroth was released from the Turks. Most of these cities celebrated the day of liberation from the fascist occupation. This is intended for fellow SPS colleagues who are now complaining that on the holiday list they are celebrating, there is no March 8th, I do not know whose date it is, or the 7th of July that Mr Radosavljevic spoke of so nicely. That's why I'm saying we should respect everything that's been said in the plebiscite debate on these laws and vote for the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10713	The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarević has the word, and after him the Messenger Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10714	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on June 28th, a coup was carried out by the Serbian government. The government proudly showed it on Vidovdan. The government's act was condemned by most Serbian people. There are individuals who have been liquefied and who today look alike, related to this regulation that is unconstitutional. It was after that regulation on Vidovdan and various comments by Mr Kostunica who did not know....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10715	I ask the MP to dedicate the content of the presentation to the subject: a draft law on national holidays.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10716	.... That is, he heard from his ministry only when the act was finished. It's just comments for small children, normal politicians don't allow themselves, especially the president of a country called the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Prime Minister, Mr. Djindjic, exulting on this very day and made the biggest betrayal since Kosovo's color. That betrayal will be remembered for a long time. This non-synchronization between the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10717	I remind the MP of the obligation... (The chairman Gordana Komic and speaker Vitomir Plužarevic speak in the same voice. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10718	..... the means of information have been detailed. DOS shoots faster than some analysts predicted. The cause of that DOS shooting is evident in multiple directions. And today, at the beginning of this session, the DOS MPs were controversial, related to the length of the presentation of the MPs on this agenda point, and this shows that DOS cars are breaking up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10719	I ask the MP to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10720	This law on national holidays is possible and should be regulated in accordance with the principles that are possible, not to go back to some old times, or to define it differently. The Commission has proposed to the government that this law be defined with a new way of thinking. The national holiday is the Meeting which is related to the 1804th and 1835th and represents the day of statehood. We, Serbian radicals, propose that this date and holiday be the day of constitutionality because then the first Constitution was brought to Serbia, which is the Happy Constitution, in 1835. As for Easter holiday, Big Friday shouldn't be a day off. In Article 5 of this law, I suggest that Vidovdan and the Holy Sava be unworkable days, that is, to be celebrated that day. I wonder why you're even proposing Vidovdan for a state holiday? If the holiday is a state holiday, and we must not forget that it is also a church holiday, then our citizens of the faithful must have the opportunity to leave in holy liturgy that day. If it's a holiday, then we have to have time to celebrate it. If it's not a holiday, then why should we even mark it? It seems to me that Vidovovdan is not exactly a holiday for you. It is a holiday, but not important enough to pay him the attention he deserves that day. I can't help thinking that you're looking at it with some Western eyes that they say, crazy people celebrate their greatest defeat as a victory. The impression, unfortunately, does not deceive me, because we know that you have many friends who think of our people exactly that way. You don't know or you don't want to know what Vidovdan means in our history. Vidovdan, if we exclude the day of the martyrs' celebration of Vid, is associated with the Kosovo Battle, and the battle in Kosovo against Serbs and Serbia, and, behold, miracles, we must confess to the world that Serbs have been in Kosovo for 612 years. What punishment it is for you after so much effort to show and prove that Kosovo is not Serbian, at least not for so long and long. The vision of our people is not just some small or insignificant or little important date. They are not the Kosovo Battle and Emperor Lazar the symbol of defeat. The vision is Christianity, faith, cross, love of the country. In 1390, Archbishop Danilo established the cult of the great martyrs of Lazar of Kosovo, and since then, to this day in our people the psychic cult is sacred, and with the sanctities of this people is not smart, nor nice to play with. So much has been taken away and taken away from this people. Leave him at least his sanctity. Don't make fun of him. For so many years, Vidovdan is a red letter, and it will be, thank God, still. If you can't offer a real holiday, why bother? If the state can't recognise that holy day and date for a day off, then it better stay as it is so far - "red letter". It's fairer that way. I propose that on January 27th - St. Sava, it is celebrated as a day of spirituality and statehood, because St. Sava is the founder of a modern state. Our people will only be held if they stick to the sacred path, because behind that road is the one who said to himself, "I am the way, the truth and the life." Holy Sava is still present today and alive, for his glory lives. The Serb people will live on these horizons as long as he has visions, his star leader, because the people who have no vision and their star lead the fall. What kind of worm destroyed an old non-deficient country? That worm was discord, dissension, dissension, and betrayal. It is, in one word, dissension and today that dissension comes to terms. It's visible, and we felt it on every level. We will fight to create harmony, sanctification, sacrifice, and a safe conduct of spirituality.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10721	Five minutes and 30 seconds. The People's Messenger, Arsic Joca, has the word, and then the People's Messenger Branko Ruzic. I apologize, Ambassador Arsic, Stanko Kovacevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10722	Madam President, I would like to point out that during the presentation of the previous MP, you have twice injured the Rules of Procedure. You let him use half the time to give political lectures, which had nothing to do with the agenda, and then after that, when you warned him, you let him completely ignore you. Ignoring the chairman, he ignores the entire congregation, and I would ask that from this moment on, you do not allow such behavior for this speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10723	The MP who does not stick to the subject of exposure is obliged to do so and is deeply aware of it. It is my duty to remind him of this business obligation, because in the heat of rhetoric and in what is a desire to be said for a pay phone, such small things can be forgotten. Whether the MP will ignore the chairmanship of the National Assembly in doing so, it is the choice of a MP, and it shows by ignoring the chairman and the National Assembly by showing his attitude toward this house. I don't expect him to personally respect me in any way, but I expect, since I know he's from Vojvodina, to respect law and order in this National Assembly. The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10724	Dear fellow MPs, we have before us a bill on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia, as it has been repeated here many times. I don't see in this bill much new, except for the introduction of the Lord's Meeting or whatever you want, the day of the constitution or the day of the statehood of Serbia, as proposed here, in this new law, and everything else proposed by this legal project has been celebrated so far. It's only regulated by other laws, the Labour Law. Was there a celebration of the glory of Christ, or was it entitled to the day of absence? Yes, it is. Was Christmas celebrated as a holiday? Yes, it is. Was Easter celebrated? Yes, it is. It wasn't a big Friday, and Big Friday can't be a celebrity. The day Jesus was crucified cannot be the object of glory. The object of the celebration can be the day he was resurrected, which is Easter and it's always Sunday, and the day doesn't change. It's one of the mobile holidays in the Orthodox calendar, and therefore, the date changes, and it doesn't change the day, and it's always Sunday, unlike Christmas, which is fixed and which can be Sunday. Therefore, that is the day to be marked, and otherwise the week, as we know so far, has been an unworkable day under the applicable Labour Law. The controversy about whether to take the Lord's Meeting as the day of constitutionality or the day of statehood, I would just like to remind myself that the 15th of February 1804 was raised up, not as it says here. According to the law, the uprising in Serbia was declared that day. Then, as one mentioned here, the Serbian revolution began either by Range or by Geden, Maretic, take whatever you want, or by other historians who have dealt with the topic, the beginning of the Serbian bourgeois revolution, and that is the day when the fight to free Serbian countries from Turks began after decades of slavery. We can consider that a day, not a day that is treated here as a religious holiday. One is a religious holiday established on the calendar of Orthodox holidays, and the other is a state holiday. If we want to discuss whether we're a secular state or whether we're theist or our faith isn't separate from the state, then we need to change the Constitution, though the Constitution is particularly unrespectable lately, so no wonder these things are not being respected either. What I was about to say, since here is often mentioned about 40, 10, 30, 20 years ago, just to remind you that in the Great Plan, in the municipality from which I have come for 10 years there has been a scientific gathering on the topic of the First Serbian Uprising, where the very beginnings of Serbia's statehood are being processed. Who is interested can obtain documentation on the chambers that have been presented there either in the National Library or in the Serbian Academy of Sciences, reminding that the Serbian Academy of Science has marked 185 years since the beginning of the Serbian uprising with a large scientific gathering, also before that the first time the Serbian Orthodox Church has been 150 years since the First Serbian Uprising and there are documents and chambers about it. Thus, he says that no one was allowed to speak of these things and that these holidays were not celebrated as religious or as general holidays are not true. You forgot to say Smederevo has the day of establishment of the small town, the beginning of the construction of the fortress of Despot Đuradj Brankovic. Other cities have also accepted various holidays either after their founding or by day. Those who had trouble determining the day of establishment couldn't accept it. I'd like to take one more thing out here as a parallel, whether it's random or intentional. You know that whoever raised the first uprising and started the Serbian revolution in 1817, a religious holiday on July 26th, was liquidated by the order of the one who later brought the Happy Constitution. Are there any parallels that we have that some dates are repeated latently, that we have some events that we want to forget, that we use another great national and religious holiday to repeat things from history. I don't think it's an accident, and I think there's one part of us that's been undoing what's before us, which is what we see from the part here that we want to undo everything that was before us. There is a history that is uncertain, and you don't know who was before Nemnjević. You don't know who was before Obrenovic, it's two of Wolf's history and, therefore, it's repeated in 1945, and you're saying it repeats 2000. It's happening over and over again that part of history that needs to be forgotten, that it's going towards Parliament. The state holiday council was the biggest to be on June 28th, and I think with this last June 28th, which was widely accepted by the people, we hit a point on the sanctity of that holiday.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10725	The word has been given by MP Zivko Selakovic, followed by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10726	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a very important law ahead of us. Why do I say important law? Because so far, we have been unable to afford that satisfaction so that we can publicly say that we have our religious holidays. When it comes to the name of the law itself, we in the Soviet Parliament group had one objection to the very name of the law. That's what Professor Pelevic already said, but I want to make a point, too. Which is why we would not throw out the name of the Bill on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia, the word "other" and replace it with "religious". It means that this name should be, if possible, adopted -- the Law on State and Religious Holidays in the Republic of Serbia. It is seen here that there is a national holiday and that these three proposed holidays are purely religious, and further in this proposal the law also states about other holidays of other nationalities. So there are no "others", but we should simply use our people's language, as one of my predecessors has already said, and that's where it stands - the Law of State and Religious Holidays. I believe that in this proposed law, when it comes to a state holiday, it is acceptable this date, or meeting, but I must also underline it, it may be more appropriate, if this date has to be adopted with this name to be the day of constitutionality, or Statehood Day. Also, I wouldn't talk about it and repeat my predecessors. I especially point out that in these religious festivals, believers of Orthodox faith are damaged. We know how much Christmas and Easter are celebrated. It is proposed one day of Christmas, four days during the Easter holidays, and it is unscheduled, i.e. it can be understood that these are unworkable days for all employees, and other members are given the same right, which is perfectly normal, that people of other religions also have the right to celebrate their holidays. This would double the number of days that would be unworkable for people of other religions and would be damaged by people of Orthodox faith. So I suggest that these religious holidays be included, if possible, and we've heard here a number of debaters say it's not a neglecting holiday -- St. Sava and Vidovdan. I want everyone to say something new, not repeat each other. Since we all know that St. Sava, that old saying of ours - Saint Sava is a student's glory. It means that it is also an unworkable day, unless it is accepted as a whole to be a religious holiday, to be a festival of enlightenment, or a student. I am finishing this, and that's what Professor Pelevic was talking about, he suggested that the Soviet Parliament group celebrate Christmas and be unworkable for three days. We know no one's going anywhere on Christmas three days. Someone said Big Friday was working. However, I would just like to remind myself whether a peasant is leaving for the Great Friday in the field, which supports that he has the grounds to find a place in this law after he has exhausted his discussion or through the amendments that is appropriate for Christmas to be a three-day holiday, and that St. Sava, as I have already said, finds a place in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10727	The People's MP Dragan Colic has the word, and after him is the MP of the people, Djordje Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10728	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia has, in its decision, educated the Commission for State Holidays. Scientific and public workers have been noted to assess the current legislative solutions on national holidays and propose new ones. I believe that the government's Commission did not do the best work because it has made certain failures, and it has had the opportunity to regulate this area with quality proposals, perhaps definitely. I believe that the number of days of work should be reduced, because because of the great economic crisis in which our country is located, we are not in a position to increase the number of holidays and days of work. This area must be regulated by the Constitution and law. There is no need for the Easter holidays to be celebrated from the Big Friday, ending with the second day of Easter. The big Friday is the saddest day in Orthodoxy and the Serbian Orthodox Church marks it in a special way. Together with the Great Saturday is an introduction to the celebration of the greatest holiday, which is in itself and is exempted from its size and significance from all other holidays. It is pointless and even comes into conflict with the essence of Orthodox faith, to celebrate and that the working days will be both Big Friday and Big Saturday. We are not Catholics to celebrate and celebrate the torture of the body, but the joy of winning death. For these reasons, the Day of Resurrection should be celebrated as it has always been -- it should always fall on Sunday and only be celebrated for one day. Everything else would be a desecration of Easter itself and Orthodox religion, with the government of the Republic of Serbia, the authorised government official Vladan Batic, showing, unfortunately, that they are far from knowing the faith of his people. The day of St. Vid represents the traditional festival of the Serbian people, since it became, and is a memory of the day of the Kosovo Battle, the heroes who gave their lives by defending the country, a memory of the day of the Sarajevo assassination, etc. The day of St. Vid is, unfortunately, defiled by the last move of Zoran Djindjic and Vojislav Kostunica. Zoran Djindjic even publicly boasted that he had been disgraced to the Serbian people on the day of St. Vid and thus showed that I was right when I doubted the patriotism of Zoran Djindjic in this assembly. Those who do not respect the tradition and religion of the Serb people deserve not to be remembered differently, but as traitors of the Serb people. (President: I ask the People's MP to return to the topic. ) The proposed law can still be improved by the adoption of amendments to the Serbian Radical Party MPs, but experience tells me that the absolute DOS majority does not want to hear the voice of reason, but acts as though it is suffering from autism. I believe that the National Assembly in another meeting where there will be more MPs who love and value tradition, history and the faith of their people, will vote in a more high-quality bill on national and other holidays and that they will be proud of your Serbianness.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10729	The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10730	I believe that the proposal for this law should be adopted, because so far the fundamental objections have not been made. This is exactly how the proposed holidays show that we recognize that we live in Christian civilization and that this is 2001 for both believers and atheists. Atheization is not a question of Christian civilization. I don't think atheists have any reason to be against the religious holidays proposed in this law. Finally comes the day when July 7th and March 28th, two holidays, two nomenclatures that usurped the right to determine what we should celebrate. I have a complaint about the fourth member, because it's mentioned here at 2nd Catholic. That's not clear enough. It should be emphasized that it's Roman Catholics, because-- "Catholics" -- it doesn't mean anything to itself. I think that should be understood, because it's incomprehensible. As for Vidovdan and the context mentioned here in different ways, I don't think we should use difficult expressions, like traitors. You know, World War II ended in Serbia on October 5th.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10731	This concludes the morning session, and we will continue at 3:30 p.m. The first National MP is Stevan Z. Guduric, in the afternoon part of the session. [[After break - 15.45]] We continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session in the afternoon. In order to determine the quorum necessary for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We continue to search the law in principle. The word has a folk MP, Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10733	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are talking today about a bill of state and some other holidays, and why others - that's what the one who proposed should say. What is surprising about most speakers today, is that most Serbs from this pay phone, Malten, are sorry about the Serb holidays being celebrated in Serbia. I don't understand that. And whoever's talking probably knows why he's talking like that. I am not ashamed to celebrate Serbian holidays in Serbia, and it is normal for it to be so, but that does not mean that no one else stands on the heel or on the blister or on the umbilical cord when it is born. What the promoter did not agree with some other events -- it says here in Article 2 that as a republican holiday, Christmas and Easter are celebrated. This, in practice, has made it known that Orthodox holidays are celebrated. And, if that's the case, it's Orthodoxy. There are some who are called to the Constitution. We've seen that for some of the most important things, the Constitution doesn't apply, what would this be? But then we have information from television about the introduction of religion, and then all other faiths will be taught at school. If this basically defined Orthodox faith as a state, then the rest of them can confess whatever they want, but they can't go to school with it. Or the promoter is hypocritical, so a little hard with one law on one side, and with some other events going the other way. What is surprising in all of this (some dates I won't mention) - July 7th is about something that's honorable and fair, July 7th is about getting up against fascism, and anyone who's against it should imagine some things, because it was a fight against fascism, and you tie it up as you will and make an ideology, like some others who make it out of all that, but that's it. Did someone crack a gun on July 7th, or did they crack before that, and before that, they fired at the Krauts, so they fired after that. So it was basically the day of the people's uprising in Serbia against fascists, and that's all it means. Everything else doesn't mean anything. We here, from this pay phone, have heard all sorts of beautiful stories and promises, well, when you DOS elected government, then the current prime minister, the current prime minister, said we will not steal and we won't lie, and he's repeated it a few more times from this pay phone. However, it happened that this prime minister and government, on Vidovdan, stole a man to sell him for five million dollars, and that is an ugly fact, with which someone will not be able to sleep and with whom someone signed up in history as Vuk Brankovic, but for some such, Vuk Brankovic is a small child. Because we're talking - we're not going to steal, we're not going to lie, and we're going to read for example. in the newspaper (someone mentioned) that World War II ended on October 5th. Looks like someone lost some important thing on that last day of the war, so he acts like an eunuch, because he said in the paper that he was watching on TV, and then he said it was a limited coup, etc. Well, either there was a coup, or there was no coup on Vidovdan. That's what the president of this country should say loud and clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10734	I ask the MP to return to the topic, which is the bill of state and other holidays.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10735	I'm talking about events on Vidovdane, diverse, because Vidovdan, it says here, suggested as a holiday, it was just a miracle here -- why is Vidovdan put on as the holiday that's been going on? Given the events of the latest Vidovdan, it seems that more different Vidovdans will have to be introduced, because of the American "but". And even when this one is given, then again it's -- "but," and yet others do, and since you've introduced practice that Serbs share on Vidovdan, then you're going to have to introduce a lot of Vidovdan annually, to get there and achieve the handover of all those you've planned. Some you hand over, some you sell, depends on who has the price. And he's probably working because someone on this Vidovdan, who spent the other day, had an obligation to steal a man and take him to Tuzla, and then on, and it can't be celebrated, it can only be written to work on a holiday.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10736	It's been five minutes and 25 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10737	They talked for seven minutes, I don't see why I'm worse than others. What still amazes me about all this - what kind of authority are you? I expected a significant date to be June 29th. True, some unbridled took and beat some, so from that 29th, it didn't turn out anything, but I expected what kind of vice president you have, that June 29th would also be a significant date for some. Therefore, the law as a law, basically, that it was not signed by those who do what they do on Vidovdan, is not really bad, only that you within DOS will have to explain to some of your own why Orthodox holidays are state holidays, and you probably didn't agree with them that way, and that's your problem, in your coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10738	The word is made by MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10739	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not a questionable need to regulate this topic, related to state and other holidays, as the legislator put it here. However, just an explanation for some earlier holidays does not give a good enough argument to give up these earlier holidays. As for the declaration of the Statehood Day Meeting of the Republic of Serbia, that, too, was the first Serbian uprising in Orasc in 1804, as well as the declaration of the Happy Constitution in 1835, plays a major role in the history of the Serbian people, but I would not agree that this day could be declared a day of statehood. A compromise solution would be to maintain March 28th as the day of statehood of the Republic of Serbia. I say this for a simple reason, because here some of the representatives of the position called for that earlier government in the Republic of Serbia only continued the policy of the earlier communist regime that ruled this country for 50 years. And you just got on the 28th of March 1989... I'm sorry, can you calm the MPs down a bit?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10740	I ask the People's Messengers to listen to each other and to respect each other, and when we sit in the messenger's benches and when we speak from the pay phone, and all because we are bound by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which we so often call upon. Here you go, Mr. Rose, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10741	So, above all, on March 28th, when amendments to the Constitution were adopted, the elements of the statehood of the AP in the Republic of Serbia, the SAP of Kosovo and the SAP of Vojvodina were taken away, so when the Republic of Serbia was restored to dignity and pride to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's a compromise solution that I suggest, although I know that you probably won't adopt it. Also, it is very unclear in Article 4 of point 2 where employees are said to have the right not to work on the days of the following religious holidays: Catholics, as well as members of other Christian religious communities. This "members of other Christian religious communities" can freely translate into members of certain religious sects. Well, hypothetically, we can experience that these religious sects and worshipers of these religious sects are possibly conducting some of their rituals, such as bringing the victim to the altar, etc. This defiles the monotheistic religions that have been recognized in our country, and many citizens respect them. The biggest problem in this bill is in Article 5, where Vidovdan is celebrated at work and it is mentioned in the Kosovo Battle. Throughout history, on Vidovdan, there was the adoption of the Vidovdan Constitution in 1921, and Gavrilo Principe killed the Austrian Crown Prince Franc Ferdinand in Sarajevo, Vidovdan. What is most problematic in the proposal of this law, which is the very proposing, which has no measure or credibility for what it suggests to be a working day. Since you will still vote this law, be assured that the proposer of this law will be synonym to Serbian citizens in the future for treason and disrespect of the fundamental dignity of the Serbian nation, and that, in the calendar of the Serbian Orthodox Church, Vidovdan and the day of all Serbian greats, the one you sold for a fist and handed over to The Hague, he will fall into those Serbian dignitaries, and will remember you only by the shame you have inflicted on the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10742	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Zoran B. Ćirkovic, followed by MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10743	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Madam Vice-President of the Assembly, if there are any members of the Government, I welcome them as well. Indeed, the proposal for a law on state and other holidays in Serbia is extremely well-conceived. The merits of such a successful legal text belong to the Commission composed of eminent historians, so that the Government, as a legislator of the law, had a great text which resulted in such an extraordinary proposal. I particularly point out Mr. Rados Lusic, a top historian, professor of Belgrade University. The government's bill of law will, of course, support the parliamentary majority, and we from New Serbia will do it with special satisfaction, because we know that the new Serbia is not without the old Serbia. The beginnings of the modern Serbian state are indeed related to the meeting of the 1804th year and to the beginning of the Serbian revolution, which Leopold Ranke called "Die Sirbische Revolution". That's why the meeting as a day of Serbian statehood is an outstanding choice. At the 1835 meeting, the Constitution of Obrenovic Serbia was introduced, the legislator was Dimitrije Davidovic, the creator of Serbian newspapers and one of the authors of Hatisherif. With special respect and piety to that time, Obrenovic Serbia, I will read a few sentences from the preamble to the Constitution: "By entering Serbia, every slave has become free. The law is a supreme absolute, and freedom of personality is the basis of the Constitution, the state is obliged to run social policy. "With the Sretenje Constitution, Serbs as a people were running to enter the community of modern states. Of course, the official recognition of the Serbian state was at the Berlin Congress. I won't, of course, take it hard, but I don't understand the constabulary to delete the meeting from the legal text. I remind you that the calendar reform was 1582, October 5th. You see how October 5th has its symbolism. That day was declared October 15th. The reform of the Gregorian calendar is not a violation every fourth year. The year that ends a certain century is only criminal if that year is divisible by 400. For this reason, in the 16th century, the difference between the Gregory calendar and July calendar was 10 days. She stayed in the 17th century, she's 18, she's 11, and in 19 she's 12 days old. I point out this for a particular reason that some authors simply forget that fact, so dates of the Gregory calendar date back to the last century with the same difference. Why am I pointing this out? If we really want Serbia as a state to be eternal and to keep its old holidays, as an old country, then in the next century there will be a difference. So in the 20th century there remains a difference of 13 days, and in the 21st century there will be 14 days. Thus, in the 21st century, the Meeting will fall not on February 15, but on February 16. As the date is related to the Meeting, I advocate that the Meeting remains in the legal text. He's being handed over by one of the MPs. Ma, you don't know Tomo, you didn't learn it in pre-war training, not even in law school. Pre-war training didn't treat that thing. Anything that you don't understand you come to me, I'll give you a free explanation afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10744	I ask the People's MPs not to speak from the MPs' benches.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10745	Because you're interrupting me, and I just don't know what that means. I really don't have any excuse for your violent behavior. Think of one of the MPs. ) I especially commend the legislator for respecting the principle of so-called positive discrimination, so the number of days that are not working according to the current bill (the Chairman warns him on time). Therefore, only Serbs and Jews have the same number of days. Members of the muhamedan religion have a day more, and members of the Catholic religion have two days more. To us Serbs, as a people, that fact simply doesn't bother us. And now, finally, I would like to conclude with regret one fact: on February 15th, a group of 35 MPs, on my proposal, signed, that is to say, by its decision in the Law on State Holidays, to resolve the issue of state symbols in Serbia. I am particularly sorry that our prime minister, as mayor of Belgrade, has removed that satanic sign from the Belgrade City Assembly building, and unfortunately he is standing here above the presidency building and I assume he's scaring people enough, because he's still missing three sixes. I was interrupted for three minutes. So, I'm done. I thank you for your attention and, of course, the New Serbia parliamentary group will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10746	There is a word from MP Miroljub Veljkovic. Let the MP of the people, Đura Lazic, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10747	It's a shame we broke up my predecessor. He was just in the early Middle Ages. It's too bad, we had something to learn from him. My predecessor said October 5th had symbols. But much greater symbolism was on Vidovdan. Much bigger. The honourable MPs, following a series of disastrously bad laws passed by this assembly on the government's proposal to remind me, of a package of tax laws that killed the economy and the population, then a package of labour law and social legislation that radically narrowed citizens' rights on that basis, came the disastrously bad moves of the government in these 150 days. To mention only this last one, when the government broke the Constitution and the law and kidnapped, for now, only one Serb and delivered it to The Hague. Today, we have a relaxing law, a law that is generally good, for the simple reason that we abolish the 50-year practice of declaring for national holidays the ideological holidays of a political option. However, one good intention was to corrupt the government in this draft with a few silly solutions in the textusacon itself. In this debate, let me just list in principle a few illogicalities. First, the very title of the law is jumbled: the law of state and other holidays. What other holidays are these? It's free to say, so the law of state and religious holidays. There's no reason not to say that in the title of the law. Then, the declaration of the Meeting with the Festival of Statehood makes no sense. The Serbian statehood extends deep before the Sretenj Constitution and for these reasons is a deeply meaningful proposal by Mr. Seseljad The meeting will be the day of constitutionality, as the day the Serbian people adopted the first constitution. Then, we finally have to break off the practice, which is present and in this law, moving state holidays from Sunday to workday. Let's just remember our specialty in the past, so-called mergers of national holidays. We have practice in the last ten years that in January, Malta is not an economy and the state institutions are not working for 15 days. It's a new year, so it connects with Christmas, so it connects with the Serbian New Year and practically doesn't work for 15 days. Simply, that practice must be interrupted. On the other hand, in the proposal you legislated an illogical proposal, I address the Government, that Saints Sava and Vidovdan should be celebrated, according to the Government, on a work basis. Those two big, first of all, national holidays, and then religious ones, they have to be unworkable. So, all in all, the law is acceptable, along with some changes that I hope you will accept through amendments to Serbian radicals. I would now like to comment on a few presentations by the MPs in the afternoon discussion. First, with astonishment, I listened to the apostle Christodul. He assured us that we, Serbs, should give up all Orthodox holidays, and all for God's sake, religious equality. Or, as he said, we Serbs don't even believe in God. Chuck was reading some statistics here, so why celebrate Orthodox holidays? And he's saying it in the Serbian parliament. And, even, he gets a round of applause from DOS MPs on this side. It's pointing to the left-hand side. I understand Christoodul and the members of his party, that they are angry. I completely understand that they are angry, simply, because of the reaction of the Serb people to the celebration of so-called. International Day of Pride. It's an international day of homosexuals and lesbians. That should be made clear. The reaction, in my opinion, was inappropriate. But on the one hand, it's understandable. I understand he's angry. Yet he exaggerated when he persuaded us to give up our Orthodox faith and to celebrate our religious holidays. Then, at the very least, I find the surprise discussions of MPs Zelđa Hurićai Muje Mukovic, members of the DOS parliamentary group. The two MPs are from the DOS parliamentary group. At the very least, it is surprising that these two DOS members, a political group that is highly pro-Western, are discussing this way. They both stand out, so-called. the principle of volunteering for the celebration of religious holidays. That's undeniable. They don't fit Christmas Day and Easter isn't working. Apparently, that puts their right to work at risk. Well, honourable MPs, who forbids them to work on Christmas and Easter? Here I tell you, you're free to work, as far as I'm concerned, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, as far as this country is concerned, etc. It is much more important that this law guarantees the right not to have to work for Muslim holidays. It means a man can choose, celebrate his holiday. That it can't work, no one makes you not work for, say, Orthodox religious holidays. This law has made clear the equality of all citizens during the celebration of religious holidays. That goes for Muslims, too. Chuck, you've got more days of work to celebrate your religious holidays than Orthodox people, which is not controversial. I note that for us Serbian radicals, it is not at all controversial. However, the problem is obviously not in religious inequality or equality, but in action is an attempt at political manipulation. In this regard, I expect the head of their parliamentary group, the head of the DOS parliamentary group, to which these two MPs belong, to be made clear about the position of their MPs. Finally, I would like to comment on the presentation of a gentleman from the Democratic Party of Serbia who said July 7th was a holiday of shame and shame. Because the celebration is the day the Serb shot a Serb. But I'm asking, how are we going to feel next year on Vidovdan? On the one hand, we will feel sad and proud of the glorious tradition, and on the other hand, be sure, there are no Serbs in this country who will not feel ashamed and ashamed. He's gone. (Milka Marinkovic, from the place: Yes. You're not Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10748	I ask the MPs not to communicate with the pay phone or the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10749	Finishing... What the head of his parliamentary group, Zoran Djindjic, the Prime Minister and Vojislav Kostunica, did on Vidovdan this year. You know what the Cypriot press published on June 29th, the complete Cyprus press in Kosovo and Metohija published the same headlines -- Serbs on Vidovdan sold Milosevic. I felt anger, shame and shame. I know about you, from the women's political group, that you're not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10750	Eight minutes. National MP Zoran Ćirkovic, the MPs mentioned, I have recorded which. No, Messenger of the People Miroslav Christodulo, the basis for the line, Messenger? Wrong interpretation, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10751	Just to be clear, then, the previous speaker, who spread religious and national intolerance from this pay phone, just needs to understand that my criticism of the law did not come down to not celebrating religious holidays. On the contrary, I think these religious holidays should be celebrated because citizens have the right to do so under Article 41. The Constitution. The problem is the obligation to celebrate these holidays as a day off for all citizens of the Republic. Here, we have here, Professor Bajcetic, my fellow MP from the PDS gave me one law from 1929, signed by his royal majesty, King Alexander the First. So, the holiday law, where it is said that in the days of national holidays, on their religious holidays, marked in paragraph three and on the holiday of their baptismal glory, civil servants do not have to be on duty, except for cases that are excluded by law. So, it's not that they're obliged not to work, it's that they don't have to celebrate. In paragraph three, it is explained for Orthodox people, Christmas, etc., Roman Catholics, Greek Catholics, envagelists, Muslims and Jews. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Then come to the Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10752	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10753	So, it's about that, come on, sir, come out here and declare the Ten Commandments of God.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10754	People's MP Ćirkovic, is the basis for replication? What's the basis for the replica, except for what he said... He mentioned your presentation as a lecture, that was interesting and it was a shame it was interrupted. Middle Ages did it mean something? Here you go, Mr. Zirkovic. It is my duty to establish the basis of the replica, so I ask you, I have no intention of hearing anyone, but I respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10755	We'll make an easy deal. Indeed, Mr. Veljkovic said I mentioned the Middle Ages in the story. I didn't mention him at all, but since he's wishing, I'll mention him. Indeed, this law has one complete continuity of Serbian statehood. If we introduce the Holy Sava, then we're talking about the German dynasty. If we introduce Meeting, we talk about two dynasties, about Karadjordjevics, it is the 1804th year, about Leader Karadjordz and Obrenovici, about the adoption of the Sretenjski Constitution. Therefore, everything that preceded the modern Serbian state and this subtle law is covered, I do not believe that Serbs have the need to produce history. Serbs must produce something else. History and history is really enough and we have to move forward, into a new world, into a new Europe. Thus, the modern Serbian state is tied to a new century, not an old century.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10756	National MP Mujo Mukovic, a replica mentioned in Mr Veljkovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10757	I really don't want to take time away from the Assembly, but I have to respond to the presentation of MP Veljkovic. It seems to me, he said that he allowed me to work, and I think he's no longer asking for anything, and at least he could let me work or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10758	The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic, followed by Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10759	The Honorable Presidency, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, I think the proposal for a law on state and other holidays has a name that has not been defined, or is not precise. At least every law in the title has to stick to precision. This bill of law should read more -- a bill of state and religious holidays. Only with one difference, which should, as part of religious holidays, add other religious festivals that our people should otherwise celebrate. As for all these holidays, religious and state holidays were mixed in this proposal, and in the earlier period with previous legal solutions, there was a law on national holidays and a special law on religious holidays, so that all citizens of this country had the right to celebrate their holidays. There was a proposal, and in the very proposal of the law, it said, that February 15th The meeting of the Lord would be the day of Serbia's statehood. There was a proposal to call or baptize this date as the day of the constitution. I think it is more realistic, regardless of the full importance of February 15th, when the first Serbian uprising began, when the Serb people rose to defend themselves in freedom from eternal Turkish slavery. Indeed, it is a bright day and a bright period in the history of the Serbian people. However, if we celebrate this day as a day of statehood, we forget about Serbia's statehood, about the existence of an expensive Serbia in earlier periods, in the time of the German rule, when Serbia both spiritually and civilizedly had a state boom. So I don't think we should ignore that period for one moment and not one move at a time. That is why I would agree with the suggestions that we call this holiday a day of constitutionality of the Republic of Serbia. There have been a lot of negative developments in the debate about the day of statehood, March 28th. I would like as a man from Kosovo and Metohija to remind you of the causes that have led to the need and necessity of adopting constitutional amendments to the Constitution since 1974. To remind you, in 1974, all the republics in the former SFRY have strengthened their statehood, only Serbia has been prevented from maintaining unity and the constitution has shattered Serbia's integrity. Constitutional amendments restored Serbia's statehood throughout its territory, and it is not true that the provinces have been abolished, but the statehood of the province has been demonstrated. We, who lived in Kosovo and Metohija during that period, know how many problems there were and how many Serbia, as the country's home country of those provinces, could not implement its statehood in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija and how many problems there were. The crackdown of Serbia's statehood on its territory, if you will, began since the fourth, Brion Pleum, then in 68, when a decision was made to storm the flag of the neighbouring state at Serbia's premises, which during World War II and even during World War I, was an opponent of Serbia. So long ago the crackdown of Serbia began, and these amendments brought back statehood in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, and that move only strengthened the constitutionality and statehood of Serbia, which had been present before. That's why it hurts like a man from Cosmet when I heard connotations denying the significance of that date and those events. As for Vidovdan, it really happened to me when I saw in the proposal that Vidovdan should be included and adopted as part of the law as a state holiday. Until June 28, the day of the Lord 2001, Vidovdan is the date of preservation of the cheek, dignity and struggle for the freedom of the Serbian people and Serbia. Prince Lazar and his associates, knights and other princes stood up in the defense of Serbia's freedom and opposed the strong Ottoman Empire to preserve his people and his freedom, to preserve Serbia's honor and dignity, because he did not wish to willingly consent to slavery. What happened? It happened, unfortunately this June 28th, that the government, with its violation of the Constitution and the kidnapping of the former president of this country, put a dark spot on this bright day in Serbian history and in some way defiled this day.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10760	The People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word, and then the Messenger of the people Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that most in this House remember the past and events that happened in Serbia. Always these events solved the Serbian essence, were existentially crucial in terms of being or not being, as was the time of Kosovo's color, or the First and Second Serbian uprising, or the epics and googoths that this people went through in World War I. The second world war should not be mentioned, for then we crowned our evil fate and began a brother-killing tragedy, which we have suffered for half a century and which we will suddenly suffer. We suffer until we learn to forgive, calm down, and think logically and constructively. It is seen here that the Serbian people want to hide the fight against NATO aggressors and the West, and the current host of Serbia wants to hide himself as Vuk Brankovic, his betrayal, flees the country, as Josip Broz flees Cera as an Austrian soldier under the attack of Serb warriors and heroes under the command of Zivojin Misic, Stepa Stepanovic, Radomir Traveller and others. In October, as you like to say, the democratic revolution has not been seriously approached by any important and same rescue solution for the situation inherited or from the environmental revolution acquired, in which we are today faced with a great deal of challenges, problems, blackmail and hopelessness, despite the new media hack and the new production of optimism without cover. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that many speakers have shown true Orthodoxness and love for Serbia and the Serbian people, but I am afraid that due to their political and economic weariness only DOS power can offer this to the citizens of Serbia. I agree that the state holiday marks the Holy Sava on January 27th. The cult of St. Sava belongs to the most widespread in our country, with its involvement, the Serbian Orthodox Church has gained self-certification where the divided Serb countries have united until then, and has played a role in waking, building and preserving Serbian national consciousness throughout the centuries. The meeting of the Lord, February 15, is due to mark the day of constitutionality, the day when the Serbs raised the first Serbian uprising at the Orasco assembly in 1844 and the day in Kragujevac in 1835, the first Serbian Principality Constitution was declared to be a non-working day. Religious holidays, like working days, are due to be Christmas, January 7th, and that's the first day, Easter, as it always falls on Sunday, is already a day off, Vidovdan, June 28th, a memory of the Kosovo battle, a memory of the Sarajevo assassination. Serbs, Vidovdan, as a religious holiday, celebrate before the Kosovo Battle, which was led in Gazimestan on June 28th 1389, or before Christendom was accepted. An unworkable day is when Serbs celebrate their own cross of glory. I also accept that the other believers of other religions celebrate their religious holidays and do not work in those days. July 4th and July 7th are no longer celebrated. It is probably thought that July 4th now, October 5th, when DOS government carried out its DOS revolution, and it is likely to replace the day on July 4th. You saw what happened on June 28th, and the Croatian government wants to drop so they don't deliver their two generals. We Serbs have easily trampled it all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10762	The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and after him the Messenger of Gordan Pop - Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10763	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there have been many discussions today on the proposal for a law on state and other holidays. The Serbian people sought through their tumultuous history that all the important events that make up his history were happening on a very big religious holiday. In the days of religious holidays, war was waged, victory, loss, a constitution was passed. This requires reasons for adding a religious name to certain national holidays. When it comes to this government, it can be seen that it is approaching that tradition, at least when it comes to Vidovdan. It should not be mentioned that on that day 612 years ago there was a Kosovo battle. It should not be mentioned that this battle was characterized by the heroism of Serbian knights and warriors, and I must say, unfortunately, treason. The Serbian people, at least according to legend, blamed Vuk Brankovic for the statement. Today, after 612 years, exactly on the same day, the Serbian people were reissued. The betrayal was committed by the government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Zoran Djindjic and Vojislav Kostunica. I am sure that the Serbian people will remember this betrayal and these traitors, and at least as much as they remember Vuk Brankovic. This law covers religious festivals of religious minorities. No MP has ever objected to the selection of unchristian holidays. The only suggestion was that this law, where Christian Orthodox animals do not dominate, local authorities decide what to do and how to celebrate. I don't think that would be right. Why should Serbs, even where they lived, not dominated by the Orthodox Serb animal, in their country feel like a national minority. It wouldn't be right, like it wouldn't be right if other religious minorities didn't celebrate their holidays. Some MPs are under the pretext and care of Serbian Orthodox believers, because they are reportedly damaged for one day missing, suggested something like this, and I can only tell them not to worry about it. In any case, the size of the Serbian Orthodox people is that it gives more to others than it takes for itself, and if it belongs to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10764	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic. Have Mr. Milorad Mircic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10765	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about the Bill on State and, as the promoter has said, about other holidays in the Republic of Serbia, although it would be appropriate to say to religious holidays, we cannot talk about something about a national identity that should also be founded in this law. Because national holidays should be celebrated and reminded of the greatest dates in the history of a nation, its state-of-the-art and its national personality. How important the feeling of national identity is, it's clear to us, the Serbian radicals, because without national identity, there's no identity, and when a man loses his national identity, he loses his identity. Then we have a dissatisfied man, a man who's lost as an individual, who doesn't belong to anyone. That is why we have had the opportunity to hear in this House some MPs say that we should not go back in history, but that we should look only at the future. These are those who seek globalisation and, of course, have no desire to celebrate their nationality and their national statehood. With this DOS law, he tried to give the impression that he wanted that very national identity to celebrate. However, there is the impression that this was rather dishonest, because if it were different, the leaders of the DOS would behave differently. They would probably behave in the spirit of Orthodoxism and sanctification and would not hold a white candle to the parastos of a Serbian government, nor would they call on NATO bombers to bomb their people at the time of the bombing. (Glass from the O.R.: Don't bang.) I may be banging, sir, but you don't have to listen to that. Planted on the lawn of the American Embassy, July 4th, you showed your true nature. As a lawyer, I try to make sure that when I get a bill of law, I actually make some contribution in the sense that this text is better. That's why I'm going to start with Article 1, where first of all it bothers me that the meeting here is called the statehood of Serbia, instead of the day of constitutionality. In the second position, it is not said why the day is celebrated, and the first position only states that it is the day of statehood, or the day of constitutionality, and that it is celebrated on February 15th. It's mostly because of the literacy of one law, but we've had worse and more illiterate laws than this. Of course, we advocate that the holidays, if they fall on days that are considered unworkable days, or if they fall on Sunday, are not transferred to the next working day. It is not true that until now religious holidays have not been regulated by law. However, they were regulated by the Labour Relations Act, but there are very little changes in this current proposal. The last member of the law even says that this law ceases to apply the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia "The Official Messenger", number 55/96, does not exist at all, which does not surprise me either. We've had even bigger delays in the bill's proposals, but this is due to the legal-technical editorials I have to say. In this "officer" we only have the Labour Relations Act, which in Article 60 regulates when workers have paid leave in the days of religious holidays. It has been completely taken over now and incorporated into this law on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10766	The word is Mr. Mircic. Let the MP of the people be prepared, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10767	Ladies and gentlemen, it's good in this bill that ideological holidays have finally been thrown out as state holidays. To one who is unclear, a national reconciliation has long been carried out in Serbia. Also, all wars, all conflicts have long ended in Serbia, so those who advocate the theory that the war in Serbia finally ended on October 5th are seriously wrong. They are wrong in the part where they have ignored the situation in which Serbia is located after the revolution carried out by the DOS on October 5th. But that's the way. What is important, and what we Serbian radicals are saying, is that, respecting the history of the Serbian people, is sufficiently accurate and precise in defining some significant historical moments, significant historical dates in the history of the Serbian people. To call on the proposal for this law to work "eminent experts" is not an argument enough, even makes a counterproduct and raises the eminence and expertise of those who have done this law. Everyone knows that the Serbian Constitution was adopted in 1835, and Serbia's statehood comes much earlier. That's how important it is, no matter how disregarded this fact. These are dates that, relying on history, mark in some way the Serbian people and the Serbian state. Gentlemen, how will you explain to those who ask you on what grounds you claim statehood comes from earlier, when you're here in 1835 or 1804. You didn't think that these distinguished experts would convince you that statehood is earlier than 1804. What kind of experts are you, it is small and cynical and it is almost possible to say that there are irony among your experts, who explain the passage of religious holidays to the state, there are the most prominent communists, including Dusan Mihajlovic, who was still in the elite units of Josip Broz, and later passed under Slobodan Milosevic's tent. And how he, with great pride in front of TV cameras, explains Serbia's public opinion on the date of the 1835 and 1804, and does not mind taking out evidence in parallel to prove in the end that Karadjordje is a war criminal. What has been missed, it is that the greatest feast - the Holy Sava is celebrated as a holiday, but not a working holiday, as you have stated, but to be in the right sense of the word holiday. But when it comes out for this pay phone, some DOS leaders are calling for the principles of holiness, especially those who are calling for Nikola Velimirovic. They're full of quotes and they're so pious from this pay phone, that a man just comes to regret that they weren't before, because they're many years old. It was supposed to be in order, and to be smart, to be so pious before. Of these are the dates you have set, and among them is the Day of Resurrection. Vidovdan was always in the Serbian people the day of the honour of all those heroes who fell in Kosovo, the day when we remember all those youth, all those intelligence, members of Mladna Bosnia, who attacked Austro-Hungarian in Sarajevo, who carried out the Sarajevo assassination of Principi, Chabrinovici, Cubrilovici, Grabezi. At that time, the Serbian people, with great honor, honored all Serbian heroes, and that was until this Vidovdan, until June 28, 2001. This is Vidovdan, whom the Serbian people will be ashamed of, ashamed of. This is the Day of View, which disgraceth those who see the Day of Resurrection technically, and not morally. Those who do not recognize Kosovo, those who do not give us all the values that our ancestors have left us, but surely one thing is - and they will have a Vidovdan, and the sooner Vidovdan will come to them, let them see what the mood of the people is like for all that they have promised and deceived. You can't stain the eyes of the people, of the citizens of Serbia, by putting three or four religious holidays, embedded in a legal proposal, to say -- here we are democracy. I'm surprised that in this bill you haven't even installed part of Europe on June 29th, that you haven't installed that date, or maybe you're waiting for fans and citizens of Serbia to react differently, not only to install, but to join that carnival.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10768	The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10769	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Vice-President, is on the Assembly's agenda for a bill on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia. Someone said that he didn't like it and that he would like to stand - religious holidays, but in Serbia there are other holidays, and I think that he should, because the people see what they will celebrate and I think other holidays will be celebrated. I'm not sure if there were any priority issues we could discuss today, in the interest of Serbian citizens? Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think we should start working first, and then talk about when we're going to celebrate. We in the Serbian Parliament are passing the holiday law, while half of the workers in Serbia are not working, because they are on paid or unpaid leave, so that they can celebrate longer than is foreseen by this law. That's why I suggest creating a working atmosphere first and creating conditions for a law like this, withdrawing the state holiday law from the procedure and putting it on the agenda when conditions are created. Should we discuss holidays in Serbia today, when the Serbian Constitution is not respected, when the Serbian government violates Serbia's Constitution? Then who's gonna respect some state holiday law? First Constitution, if we want to celebrate, we should respect it. Next, does it even make sense to make any laws, when only political decisions are applied in practice? What is confirmed by the Constitutional Court's decision? It's not judicial decisions, it's political decisions. The state holiday is proposed on February 15th, Meeting, when the first Serbian Constitution was adopted in Kragujevac in 1835. I don't understand why this holiday day was taken, given how much Serbia was at the time, and if we take (if it isn't an accident) that day for the holiday, so that someone doesn't know, and ask us to come down to the borders of that time. Next, the holiday is Vidovdan and I agree that it stands in reason - Vidovdan belongs to the basic concepts of Serbian historical memory, but I don't know what we were doing when we proposed this day - is it by Emperor Lazar, or by Vuk Brankovic? Another event related to this day: more and more talk is being told among the people and connects that the proposer proposed this date for a state holiday because former President Slobodan Milosevic was extradited to The Hague on that day. That's why I accept the explanation -- vidovday, just as a religious holiday.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10770	There's a word from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10771	Ladies and gentlemen, in the government's explanation of this bill, it is said, among other things, that if something unites the generations of Serbs, it is the image of the Holy Sava. Holy Sava has earned enormous credit, above all in the field of spirituality. The monk and writer, translator and thinker, founded together with his father, Serbian ruler, Stefan Nemanja, the Hilandar monastery on the Holy Mountain. His efforts created a Serbian autokefal church, which brought together a divided Serb country until then. The builder and patron of art marked the beginning of the great era of Serbian medieval sacral art, and its cult belongs to the most widespread in our midst. Vidovdan belongs to the basic concepts of Serbian historical memory, is celebrated as a memory of the Kosovo Battle and the Serbian army's death in conflict with the Turks. The event now exceeds the framework of one battle, one event, and should be given the universal meaning of the holiday, dedicated to all fallen homelands through the long history of the Serbian people. We fully agree with the legislator's explanation, with those who signed the inspired text in the bill. That's why we're surprised he's a member of the 5th. The bill provides for these two significant dates in Serbian history to be celebrated as working days. Article 5 provides that the work of the Holy Sava, the day of spirituality, and Vidovdan are to be celebrated in the Republic of Serbia, mentioning the Kosovo Battle. Is it not entirely justified that the day of St. Sava and Vidovdan be celebrated unworked? In the amendments proposed by SRS MPs Vitomir Plužarevic, Dr Goran Cvetanovic, Bozidar Vujic, Dragan Colic, Branislav Blažic and others, it is proposed to add to Article 2 that both Sveti Sava and Vidovdan are unworked. The government says (explains why it refuses these amendments) that St. Sava is traditionally celebrated in schools and other educational institutions, so this tradition should continue, and Vidovdan, as a reminder of the Kosovo Battle and fallen for the homeland, should be celebrated on a work basis, because it marked only the meaning of this holiday traditionally. So he says, that's why we should keep going. I think it should become a tradition to mark that holiday in our homes, students, students, and students as special academias. So that we parents can, because we are free on that day, participate with them in celebrating the significant dates of Serbian history. You know, ladies and gentlemen of the 7th of July was traditionally celebrated, so just remember those oranges of seven joys, excursions, etc. It was kind of traditional, but it's a good thing we broke that tradition. It is good that this law no longer celebrates the day of Serbian defeat, Serbian shame, the day when a Serb, for ideological reasons, killed another Serb. Although we have already broken that tradition, completely justified and completely agreed, at least we of the SRS parliamentary group agree that this should have been abolished. We can't agree that these two significant dates are celebrated at work. I remember my daughter almost finished high school, that on the day of St. Sava, she wouldn't even let the grain be worn, or the cake, so that those who celebrate, let's say, took the cake to school. That is why it is necessary to give greater importance to the day of St. Sava and Vidovdan. I believe that it is acceptable for other citizens of Serbia, who are not Orthodox, because the cult of St. Sava is also respected among members of other religious communities or those who were once Serbs, and now they don't feel like Serbs anymore, but some others, I don't know. It is their right, and I believe that there are Serb Catholics, Serbs of Islamic religion and Serbian Orthodoxs. Therefore, this law may be acceptable if these well-intentioned objections and proposals by the SRS MPs, or the SRS parliamentary group, are accepted. It will be a law that we will not change for 100 years, a law that will be acceptable to any regime, to any authority that comes after this authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10772	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and the next one is MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10773	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia is one of the proposals for a law that finally comes from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has not been done previously in one of the EU member states. However, this bill, regardless of what has been done here, has its faults and shortcomings, which I, as an SRS MP, will try to point out and focus on changing and supplementing, especially the amendments to the SRS members, this proposal will improve and as such live in the state of Serbia. Article 1 suggests that the meeting of the Lord be the day of Serbia's statehood and be celebrated on February 15th. I think that this member should change and that instead of Serbia's statehood day will be the day of Serbia's constitutionality, if the fact that the first constitution in Serbia was adopted on that day is already known. Article 2 provides for the celebration of religious holidays on the first day of Christmas and Easter holidays. What I don't think should be, and that's not to celebrate Big Friday, but only Easter, and Big Friday should be thrown out of this second position, because, as we all know, it's a day of mourning and there's no reason to celebrate. Article 3, Article 4. - if the holiday from article 1 of this law falls on Sunday, it's not the first day. It's one superfluous member, one legacy of the last era, which we need to get rid of. There's no need, we can't see a day that's 28th to celebrate the 29th and so on to move the celebrations of our holidays. Article 4 gives the right to celebrate religious holidays and all groups are included: from Orthodox people, through Catholics and Islamic communities, to the Jewish community. It is very easy to see that these others have an advantage over Orthodox people, which normally does not irritate anyone and should allow them to celebrate and honor their holidays. What I most resent, which is in Article 5, where it says that the work of the Holy Sava is celebrated in Serbia - a day of spirituality, so I think that this should be corrected and that the day of statehood should be precisely the Holy Sava and it should be a holiday, not a work celebration, as well as Vidovdan, mentioning the Battle of Kosovo. I would also suggest adding to Article 5 a new position, which would read, that if it had to stand this sentence -- at work, it would only have one obligation, which is -- it will work to celebrate these holidays only by Prime Minister Djindjic's government. Because on Vidovdan only the government of Prime Minister Djindjic worked overtime, and we know what the result is. I would also add a new member trying to make a commitment to a working celebration of Vidovdan and St. Sava, that it must also be celebrated by the president of Yugoslavia. Why? So that he has an obligation, so that he probably doesn't celebrate, and then there's an event in Serbia, and then he says he doesn't know it, that he's not being directed... (President: Please stick to the topic. ....................................................................................................... I therefore propose that this work, be mandatory, means only for the government of Prime Minister Djindjic and Yugoslav President Mr Kostunica. That should be emphasized. While they are, and that is what you, sir, said, traitors, I agree, thank you for reminding me. So that's one of my remarks. I'm sorry there's no minister here to accept these suggestions and he'd probably put in and accept these proposals, so this bill would be greatly improved. I don't think this bill will be a long century, we'll probably get changes and additions to this law soon, so Serbia will probably have to celebrate the Fourth of July or possibly what I wanted - that statehood day is October 5th. Why? Because Serbia would have started on October 5th, so the government of the Republic of Serbia would not have to dig various tombs, various corpses to look for, no one had existed before, and no one would have done so. Now, since 1804, there have been many fights, wars and many corpses, so I'm afraid they'll find and accuse the Serbs of being a criminal people... (President: Time, Mr Kragovic. ....................................................................................................... I'm finishing up, sir. I just wanted to say that I expected it to be October 5th, so that it would stop the shame of the Serbs and the Serbian people at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10774	The People's MP Branislav Blazic has the word, and the next one has been reported by the MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, we live in an evil time that is quite negatively affecting our overall material, cultural and spiritual life. However, at such a time of all our sufferings, this spiritual life may have been the best. We may thus have shown all the vitality of going through the various historical hardships that we have had. This law in this respect could contribute to a spiritual refreshment of our people, after decades of ideological exclusion. It could be with certain supplements that are necessary for it to be made. What are the basic principles that are needed to be respected, in order for a law like this to be good? The first principle is that this ideological exclusion that we've had for decades is definitely, finally, removed. To make a law that doesn't have an item in it to celebrate only one political option. The second principle we would need is to respect those dates that have endured all historical temptations. Dates that show what's worth going on. What's not worth is going on during some period of life, but it's coming at an impact of criticism very quickly. The third principle that should be respected when it comes to such a law is unworkable days. I think those days should be reduced as much as possible. We have shown in some previous period that we are inclined to connect our days off, so that from one day of the state holiday we create five, that we create a cult of unhappiness and constantly "singing and dancing" celebrations, instead of starting to create a cult of work. What is significant is that it must be done to change the law in the sense that it is complemented, that the day of St. Sava is an unworkable day and a holiday. This should be our day of spirituality and statehood. The day of vision should certainly be an unworkable day, for it is still a day on which generations, in a way, have been brought up in respect of their people, in respect of great values, in respect of something that we all need to be holy. In the end, I would like to refer to some of the comments heard about this law, and they came from a group in power, from the DOS group. We've also heard these comments, that he's repressive, that it's discrimination, inequality. Then there was a suggestion that some holidays should be celebrated on only some part of Serbia's territory without being celebrated on another. It was even a finding that human and collective rights were at risk, that the law was supported because Juža sang at an Austrian bar in connection with the First Serbian Uprising. These are absurd things, and I think that these comments outline the entire depth of the crisis in which this society is located. It is found that advocating democracy among some of the DOS conglomerates is quite false. It is apparent that democracy, so understood as it is presented, cancels itself. I think it must be taken into account and that it is not good here to perform from this pay phone, from the positions, not only of the tight side, when it comes to national holidays, but also of the ethnic and territorial positions that some MPs represented here. This security can bring good development to democracy in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10776	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10777	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after a series of good government reform laws, another good bill, a bill of state and other holidays. This law defines national and religious holidays, working days and unworkable days. After all those "Josipa Workers", "Holy Joseph Workers", "Holy Mouse Day", "Bird Day", "The Day of Resurrection", "The day someone shot someone," here DOS didn't take the day of ideology for some day. He didn't take his victory day, October 5th, for a state holiday. On that day, these other guys "snatched like a rattle." This law allows for confessions, not only of Orthodox people, the right to celebrate their religious holidays. This is certainly a democratic feature of this law, and this positive discrimination of other, smaller confesions and national minorities, because they have the right, it seems to me on four unworked days more than a majority confiscation, rather than a majority nation. You can talk about the meeting. I think the government took the right day, a day we won't argue about. It's certainly a better day than March 28th when some, in my opinion, freak amendments that were the cause of the conflict in these territories. I'm bothered by a little more itching and a little ignorance of Serbian history. We usually talk about Vidovdan, 1389, and then we skip to 1804, as if between those two dates, Serbs did not exist. Either there were no Serbs, or you were from some territory that the Serbian state did not cover, the Serbian states were almost never there. You are neglecting some of the events that took place in Serbia's territory. We can also talk here about Theodore's peer, about the 1st Serbian uprising in 1594, if I'm not mistaken, when the rise of the Banatian Serbs against the Turks was raised. The conflict lasted a year and a half and a half days in conflict and the number of victims was even higher than the First Serbian uprising. Theodor of Vršacki so irritated the Turks that they burned the musts of St. Sava a year later, showing the Banatian Serbs that they would pass, while Theodore himself was being skinned alive and the Serbian church declared him a saint. Also, it bothers me, but not so much, not to mention in 1848, May 13, the Sremski Karlovci. The Serbian Parliament which is the Duke... declared the commander of the Serb military forces and declared by Metropolitan Rajacic a Serbian patriarch and thus restored to the self-refaling of the Serbian church. So much so that I teach you a little history, that we weren't just 1389 years old, and then we showed up in 1804 years. We are certainly, pleased with this proposal and we will vote for it, regardless of these dates. I cite them purely as an example that Serbs existed between those two periods. I also have a bit of a problem with the mystification that some of our greatest defeats are considered victories, and we forget some victories. Here, Vuk Brankovic was mentioned as the greatest Serbian traitor. Let me disagree, Vuk Brankovic, which is a historical fact, died in a Turkish prison. And Kraljic Marko, who most consider to be the greatest Serbian hero, died as a Turkish vase in the battle of the Rovinas, as a Turkish soldier in Bulgaria. So much for us Serbs, that we can distort some facts and turn our greatest historical defeats into victories, and some victories completely forget. Also, I'm having a bit of a problem with the accent of the upcoming communists, of whom today a decent Serb can no longer enter the church. I will give an example and ask for patience: "I have shown and proved my own Marxist-Leninist theoretical conviction and communist ideological orientation", etc. In 1982, Vojislav Seselj said in the text, "Why am I expelled from the Union of Communists?" And I can't talk about Serbs from him today. So much for that, some overemphasis. We celebrated this sinful Joseph Broz, all and all things, and then we forgot. I believe half of this congregation belonged to the Alliance of Communists, not just this man whose name I read. I also disagree on the last Vidovdan. I think that Vidovdan can also be seen as a day of courage, a day to squeeze the loop and make a decision, to show some courage. It's also important to give the government a confession, to make a little joke, to work overtime. This is the first government to do it for free on national holidays, and if someone is not satisfied, we will easily introduce more Vidovdan in one year. Thank you. (Alexander Vukic, from the place: Replica. [[Applause to DOS MPs]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10778	He didn't mention you. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: Give me the right to a replica, said the president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. He didn't mention you, he mentioned Mr. Seselj. No, I don't. [[Alexander Vukic, from place: So you won't give me a replica.]] (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: Then I report for the injury of the Rules of Procedure.) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of the 99th and Article 98 has been injured. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. He was injured by the previous speaker and the chairman, and I would just like to say that I don't understand that you gave the right to a replica of a man I didn't mention in any sense, except that there are those who are Islamic religions. Is it true? And he got a man right to replica because of it. You do not give the right to a replica when the name is mentioned by Dr Vojislav Seselj because you do not like it, do not shout, the possibility of someone answering you and the possibility of someone telling you something. Namely, Dr Vojislav Seselj, was the man who was first convicted in the former SFRY as a fight against communism for 8 years in prison, unlike you who even the dictatorial regime of Slobodan Milosevic had never condemned anything, because no DOS leader had ever stayed in Milosevic's dungeon for a day. And even in Milosevic's dungeon was Dr. Vojislav Seselj, and nowhere, not even on the rifleball, they didn't want to put you, nor to see you. Don't talk about ideology you don't have, whose ideology is one, that's -- how to get to power, how to keep it, and how to say something, make it up, and slander yourself against political opponents, and nothing else at all. As for Vidovdan and the overtime of your presidents of your governments, the only ones who are familiar with it at half nine o'clock in the evening, and all of Serbia has learned about it at half seven o'clock in the evening, are those whose constitution and laws are not the Holy Scriptures, and they would have to be more important than the Holy Scriptures. This will be discussed in history -- and this, and the responsibilities of these people, and for a long time, will be discussed in the Serbian people. Be assured of that. I'm just asking you not to have two arches in the future, that someone who doesn't even have a right to a replica, that it's even hard to figure out who I was thinking about, but you saw that we didn't rebel at all, we didn't protest, because unlike you, we're afraid of answers, we're not afraid of replicas, and we're political gentlemen. But don't deny us the right to answer when someone comes up with three days to read one sentence and think he's very smart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10780	Mr. Wolfie, in any case, I owe you an answer and I'll answer you, there's no problem. Excuse me, Mr. Seselj, can I finish? Mr. Vukic intervened by asking for the right to replication of the fact that the previous speaker mentioned a detail from your presentation or, at least in his opinion, one detail from your biography. I was correct at that point, Mr. Wolfie, and you can also check the stenograms, and I warned him to stick to the subject, right at that moment. You're looking for a replica you just don't have a right to. If Mr. Seselj had been in the O.R., he'd be entitled to a replica. Not you, I answer to Mr. Wolf, you weren't in the O.R. So if Mr. Seselj had been in the O.R., he'd be entitled to a replica. Since Mr. Seselj was not mentioned, neither as head of the parliamentary group nor as a member of the SRS, because an event was quoted from a time before the party existed, you had no right to reply. If you're asking me to put it to a vote on whether the Rules of Procedure is hurt, I can do it. Don't ask, then all right. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Do you give me your word?) On what grounds, Mr. Seselj? He asked for a word as head of the parliamentary group, he has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10781	Don't be afraid, I didn't mean to answer to that messenger you mentioned, it's enough for God to do what he did and what he couldn't do by the laws of old Sparta to stay even as a baby in life, and by all the criteria of old Sparta, I'd be carefree. I wanted to talk about this law, and I wanted to make a point that I wasn't talking about this morning. That's the question which holiday is most important under this law? The holiday can only be Vidovdan, he is the oldest, he is the most Serbian, he dates back to when the Serb became a Serb. At the moment that various nations, ethnic groups began to branch out, the Serb was already celebrating the Holy Vid. The old Serbian faith was neither ungodliness nor multigodliness nor polytheism. The old Serbian faith was monotheistic and had many matching points with Christianity. There was one god, there was still one God. There were other gods who were on the hierarchical scale much below it, and these gods corresponded to what the archangels were in Christianity. So, a spiritual story, a pure spiritual story of an angel, and only a spirit being and beings who carry out God’s will in certain sectors. It's about that old Serbian faith. How is old Serbian faith different from Christianity? In Christianity, God is three-faced, so God is the Father, the Son God, and the Holy Spirit. God was an old Serbian god and appeared in four characters: St. Vid, Perun, Yaksha, and Vojin, and hence that old Serb cross from the time before Christ. That is why the holiday should be over all other holidays, and through the Kosovo battle it was the greatest holiday in the Serbs. There were Orthodox priests who tried to banish it, to throw it out of the calendar, to connect with some sacred Vida of Sicily and who knows what else, just to suppress the memory of the old Serbian faith. The Serb has always lost his traditions, his spiritual fluids, and therefore, we, today's Serbs, should learn from history and that what is ours from the beginning, be at the very beginning as ours. The Serbian old religion was almost completely taken over by the Serbian Orthodox Church and, of course, a fusion with Christianity was made. What is it that has been Serbian in Serbian Orthodoxism? Exactly what makes Serbian Orthodoxism different from all other Orthodox churches and especially how it differs from the Catholic Church. St. Vid is a holiday with which Serbs came to the Balkans, and that is why they have more to guard him. No people in the world, whether in the subsequent centuries they accepted Christianity or Islam, or any other religion of the new era, kept the holiday held by Serbs. There is no such historical memory in any nation. The Germans have Odin, but they don't have one day dedicated to Odin. This is very important for the preservation of Serbia's national consciousness, especially now that the mondialists are trying to suppress our historical memory, when all history is trying to bring us down to the 20th century and even worse -- since World War II. The Serb had a history thousands of years old, many things in Serbian history have been forgotten. What's not forgotten and what's left in the books we have to keep. If we do not express it through one of these laws, those who are trying to suppress Serbia's national memory and memory will not achieve much. The Serb celebrated, celebrated the Holy Vid and then when it was forbidden and when it was persecuted. To the Serbs, no one could cast the Holy Vision out of memory. Many have tried to shame the Holy Vid, many have destroyed his temples, many have destroyed his statues, many have committed the greatest betrayals on that day, as did this last day of 2001. Watch only one thing: God did not owe anyone, and this shows the experience of the Obrenović dynasty. God punishes the 11th generation for treason, and it should be kept in mind, it should not be ignored. The fact that someone thinks to raise a penitence or now to court the church later by promising on the shortcut the fall religious teaching or the head of the Committee on the Construction of the Holy Temple, as Zoran Djindjic does, cannot atone for this great sin. This sin will long be repented and will long be clouded by reason and consciousness and the soul of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10782	The word has a folk MP Dragan Rafaelovic, and the next one is a registered MP, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10783	Ladies and gentlemen, as we can see, it seems that some professors will become professors of religion and some strange religion, but there will seem to be plenty of professors. What I wanted to say by going out for this speaker is to express my satisfaction with the adoption of this law, which will finally allow, I stress to the citizens of Serbia, to celebrate holidays that mean something to them and to this country. Meeting, I don't think it's necessary to talk, not even about this law, because everything is clearly said by it. This is the moment when Serbia received its written Constitution, which marks a modern state, means statehood day and if someone finds another written, official document that marks some sure start of statehood from before, they will likely be able to agree on it in the future. What is most important, which means that all citizens of this Serbia, regardless of religion, will be able to celebrate religious holidays, those who mean something to them. I would mention to my predecessor, no matter how important the date in Serbia's history is, it is not the most important holiday for Serbia. There are no bigger ones for every believing Serb than two holidays. It is the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ and his resurrection. Therefore, this is an important holiday, the Serbs will stop celebrating other people's holidays, holidays brought into the woods, holidays that some group of people have declared to be important state events, and what's most important, this law will show that DOS is not like its predecessors, that what we said we would break up with 55 years of history, break up with it, this law is passed. If we were the same as the predecessors, we would declare October 5th a state holiday. Of course, we know that this country doesn't start from us, and that's not what we did. I belong to a group of MPs who suggested that this assembly adopt, make a decision to remove the signs, to stop listening to an anthem that is not ours, to remove this sign above our heads, this sign that first brought to us the destruction of the best people in Serbia after the war. Then he brought us false hopes, false values, false positions and false ways to gain some money and relationships in society. In the end, he brought us a sunflower, a complete waste of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10784	Mr. Rafaelovich, please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10785	This has everything to do with the subject. So this is the first step in bringing our holidays, and the second step should be this before we move on to the adoption of the final symbols and anthem, coat of arms and all that it means to the people of Serbia. What's most important is that there's a constant mention of where this guy in DOS came from, where the guy in DOS came from. I'd go back, I didn't want to talk about it, but I have to mention one story, for every believing Serb, very important. The story of our Lord Jesus Christ of the Gospel, the story of a man who had 1,000 sheep, was a host, lost one evening and then yelled all night in the mountains looking for that one sheep. When he brought her into the cake in the morning, he said, "I was more pleased with this one than I did with those 999 that came into the cake." Therefore, DOS also showed one size, accepts everyone who understands where they were wrong and what the right path is. [[Vojislav Seselj : Reporting for replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10786	There's no reason, really. He didn't mention you. Believe me, there's no reason. Let's stick to the Rules of Procedure. We can read the Rules of Procedure if you like. "If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insultingly expressed about the MP from another parliamentary group, citing his name and last name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates has the right to replication." I can't give you the right to a replica. We can take a look at the stenogram together. Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10787	First I'm going out to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, aware of the fact that a man who, by all the rules and norms of the work of this assembly can no longer sit here, but be an MP. That's all the rules. Mr. Chairman, you have violated the Rules of Procedure, not only Article 96, where you do not give rights to the president of the SRS parliamentary group on the line, as the previous speaker already said at the beginning of his speech, mentioning Dr. Vojislav Seselj, so that he could teach religion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10788	That's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10789	If you didn't recognize us, then at least don't make us like that. That's what you can be and no one blames you for your surroundings, but you can't play it here. The second time directly involved his exposure to the president of the parliamentary group. You obviously intend to do something else here, to bring unrest into this congregation. We were once witnesses, and we've had enough of that unrest you've been making. We've had enough of it from you who's been watching who's behind the table, don't hang out with us now. Second, you violated Article 98. The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. The previous speaker did not say anything at any time, except that he called out MPs, or rather the president of the SRS parliamentary group, about the agenda point. If you want to continue, burning this businessman, not to give a word to the representatives of the SRS, then make it public, and it would be best for you, Mr. Chairman, to leave a seat for someone else to sit there, to lead that Assembly, at least one who is legal and legitimate, and not you who are against the law in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10790	I have to explain to Mr. Mircic. As far as your remarks are concerned, I have not wronged the Rules of Procedure for one moment, and we can put that to the vote. I explained the first case to Mr. Seselj. I did not give Mr. Vukic a replica because he was really in connotation, which is why I warned Mr. Seselj, but not as the head of the parliamentary group, but as a matter of events from when the SRS was gone. That's why I didn't give it. As for the other, he didn't mention Mr. Seselj or the SRS for one moment. He was talking about some of us becoming professors of religion. Whether you recognize yourself, Mr. Mircic or not, that's your business. I didn't recognize you, so I didn't give it up. As far as my legitimacy or illegality are concerned, I'm a man who rarely, very rarely, at least when it comes to not business, but political views, is in business positions when - when I agree with you, rarely when I agree with the president of the SRS. If your remark is now inspired by principled reasons, and not by your desire to sit here any closer than I am to my friends, then I will say yes, in principle, I agree with you. Me and my colleagues have been illegally excluded from the party, but if your pleading is for that story to be explained, I, Mr. Mircic, fully supports you. It is a matter that the Administrative Board of this congregation or the Ministry of Justice or whatever authority you want cannot keep out of context. If you wanted some other cute friends, that's your problem, Mr. Mircic. Do you want me to put it to a vote? Yeah. ) We vote on whether the chairman has violated the provisions of Articles 99 and 98. The Rules of Procedure, not giving the replica to MP Vukic and MP Seselj, after the previous presentation. For 52, against 100, there were no abstentions, no vote of 27, a total of 179. I find that the National Assembly has concluded that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. People's MP Branislav Ivkovic, as head of the parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10791	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is natural for every new government to rush as soon as possible to leave its mark where it considers it essential for the assessment of that authority. On the sealing of the new government in the economy, the best citizens will say in the next snap elections, which will likely be scheduled as soon as possible. As for the seals around the national holidays, it is not right that the new government, by defining state holidays to its extent, does not forget to say that the old government had made its holidays. In some ways, the new government also points to those holidays that should be on it. So, every government is trying to define state holidays by its own means, normally, always calling for science. First, I want to say what we're not going to argue about. Thanks to the very Constitution of Serbia, which has experienced its great trampling these days, which the SPS has surprised and the view that this is a multinational and multi-confessional state, the state of its citizens. Surely there is no dispute between any parliamentary group in this House, that the religious holidays of traditional religions present in these places, which are: Orthodox, Catholic, Islamic and Jewish religions, absolutely have the right to their days when they do not work, out of respect for religious customs. It's something we won't argue about. But I want you to remember this story about the Constitution of Serbia, because we're going to argue about something else. Namely, in these proposals that have been made, there are many symbols. The 7th of July, a day that was a symbol of the right to self-defense, is abolished. The 7th of July, which was a symbol of self-defense from a fascist occupier, is abolished. Perhaps because we are experiencing evidence these days that it is not good to defend ourselves and our country, because whoever defends his country can end up on the bench of the UN tribunal. Secondly, as for the Meeting, the Sretenjski Constitution, as regards the decision of Karadjordje and the leading Serbian chieftains to begin the fight in 1804 to finally free the Serbian people from 500 years of long Turkish rule, we can discuss another symbol that is very dangerous, the introduction of the Happy Constitution. The Happy Constitution was only applicable to Belgrade Pashaluk and for nothing more. What was the idea of the leader of Karadjordja, who raised the uprising -- to free the Serb people, not only the Serb people on the territory of Belgrade's Pashalu, but that the Serb people live in one state. The Happy Constitution is the first step in achieving that goal and was only referring to Belgrade's pasture. What's going on with the bill now? On March 28th, the day the amendments to the Constitution of Serbia, which finally put the Republic of Serbia in an equal position in the former Yugoslavia, gave it the right for citizens of Serbia to manage the territory unitedly throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to give it the right, for example, to finally adopt the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia. If the aspirations of Karadjordje are observed, the aspirations of those who brought the Sretenjski Constitution, which applied only to Belgrade's pasture, then on March 28th 1989 was the point of "and", when Serbs in their country, Serbian citizens, could finally say -- we have a comprehensive Republic of Serbia, as did the Republic of Slovenia in then-Yugoslavia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia. Finally, two of them around the door, which were states in the country, were designed to break the Serbian people into more borders, and then Serbia could normally plan both infrastructure and the market economy and the development of an economy throughout the territory. What's going on now? Citing the Sretenje Constitution, which referred to Belgrade's pasture, as an important constitution, we lift the point of "and", we abolish the amendments to the Constitution on March 28th, we say - we will not, we are ashamed of it. That it is not some symbolism, that perhaps it is the perspective of the Republic of Serbia under the DOS regime, that perhaps we are not preparing for the Sretenjski Constitution to live on that small Belgrade pashalu with separate states of Vojvodina, Sandzak, Kosovo and Metohija and other parts. There's a lot of symbolism, but the right to self-defense was a struggle against fascism. The adoption of the amendments to the Constitution on 28 March 1989 was the point of the "and" aspirations of Karadjordje, the bringers of the Sretenjski Constitution, which and should be respected. Finally, the Republika Srpska, which lives in Bosnia and Herzegovina, may also be seeking the Serbian people to bring another point to "i" tomorrow -- a single constitution for the whole territory. That's what we need to talk about here. As a citizen of Serbia, I do not like the symbol of your proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10792	The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word. Next reported is MP Lazar Marjanski. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10793	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... (Glass from the O.R.: Theme. ) Mr. Chairman, if you cannot resolve these unarticulated screams by yourself, you can solve Vuk Bojovic. Call him for help. The citizens of Serbia of this Parliament did not expect to deal with the Bill on State and Other Holidays in such a difficult time for our citizens and the state of Parliament, as if it would get us out of the crisis and be better than that. The time we live in is harder than the time of the NATO Pact bombing, for the simple reason that our enemies were out of bounds, miles away from where they bombed us. Now the enemies of this people and the state with the help of the West have been brought to power in Serbia and Yugoslavia. (President: Mr. Janjic, please stick to the subject. I'm in the middle of something right now. NATO has bombed certain targets, including religious objects, and this DOS government is destroying everything it touches, and now you and those ones are setting significant dates for our history. They defiled even Vidovdan by delivering four Serbs to Western criminals. I agree that this matter should also be regulated by law. But today, when 80% of citizens are literally starving or on the verge of hunger, without work, with the daily decline of living standards, we here determine the days of the year or the holidays. Gentlemen, as you run the country, in a few months all business activities will stop, so every day will be the same for us, i.e. Unworked and all will be celebrated, hungry, for free. Perhaps the DOS government believes that after 5 October, the Serb people must fast for years. However, you have introduced a post to work, a post to treatment and health, a post to the possibility of schooling children, and who knows what you will remember in the next few months, how many the greatest optimists give you to stay in power. Fortunately for the citizens, you were quickly demasted by Serbian radicals, so now most of the citizens in you, instead of rescuers, see the mercenaries of the West, with the task of desecrating everything sacred in the Serbian people. You're destroying all economic activity to privatize the economy more cheaply, i.e. You steal the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10794	Mr. Janjic, once again, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10795	Then the citizens can celebrate to their will, and some can mark the day of baptism, the day of immigration, the day of indigenousness, from about 600 years of age, by the reputation of your American brothers. They became autochtons when they destroyed the natives. This evil was not in power until today's day, and this law will be changed very quickly, as for Serbs the biggest holiday will be the day of Serbia's release from DOS authorities. It will be the greatest Serbian holiday, because you have done the greatest evil to this people in the shortest time. Gentlemen of DOS, it is not Serbia's DOS front, or some "jinjiland", you have imagined that in this "jinjiland" warm brothers rallying in the middle of the Republic Square, and some uninformed, naive as French maids, they can still deceive you with false patriotism and legalism. If you don't know who is next to Djindjic the biggest culprit for everything that's happening to us, I'll tell you just - Kostunica and DOS. They're the biggest culprits for what's happening to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10796	Mr. Janjic, really try talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10797	And what am I talking about, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10798	You're talking about President Kostunica, Djindjic, all sorts of things, but you're not talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10799	Well, may I not mention Mr. Kostunica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10800	No, I didn't say you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10801	If I can't mention it, I'll say "meau."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10802	Thank you, Mr. Janjic. There's a word from MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10803	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree enough with the bill of this law and I believe that this law brings about what Serbs celebrate - Vidovdan, Easter and everything else, and every one of their own cross glory. In one part, I disagree, namely, my cross glory is Ignatius, and I have celebrated that cross glory until the minorities who rebel here have been forbidden, and we have always been forbidden. There is one danger - what if the president of Serbia, who does not exercise his power and is threatened to be delivered, returns this law? It is a great danger, because we know that at this point we do not have the Constitution of Yugoslavia, we do not have the Constitution of Serbia, everything is suspended. The moral act of one president of the state, Mr. Kostunica, is to resign, since he is the first man of this country, legally (the people chose him, with 52%), and does not know what is happening to him in this country. Simply, such a president can no longer function as president of this country. Because if he's morale, if he believes in God, if he's got the glory of the Christ, it's his turn to resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10804	Mr. Marjanski, please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10805	I'm sticking to the subject. It must be one thing, to say a few more sentences, that the people celebrate, not what this congregation, the previous and the past 100-200 years, will write, but celebrate what is in the spirit of what has been in generations, for thousands of years -- this is Vidovdan, our Holy Sava and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10806	The word has a folk MP, Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10807	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, following a series of laws that this assembly, thanks to the DOS majority, has adopted, will be adopted on the same principle and this law on national and other holidays. Many events have been in the history of the existence of the Serbian people. When the government changes (as DOS authorities do so far), it is already seen in the mood of the people, very soon), it is hard to believe that some new scientific and public workers will accept just 15 February, the Day of Meeting for Statehood Day. But I approve, because that's my name too. But when it comes to Vidovdan, every year will be remembered and written in history, as long as the Serbs are on this globe. And Vidovdan in 2001 will be remembered for selling Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague tribunal from all areas in which Serbs live today, the most strongly condemned and cowardly deportation. In this act, the Republic Government, as well as the DOS, has shown how much Democrats are, but they have shown what fear is in their eyes from those who think differently of them. On Vidovdan, it came to light that DOS is an incompatible compound, and that only the bills of those countries that have brought great and unforgettable sacrifices to our people are held in that union. The act of deportation and sale of Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague tribunal poses a major and open threat to all patriots and fighters for the freedom and dignity of their people and their country. Therefore, because of everything this government has done so far, in this short time, and because of national betrayal, we Socialists believe that the government should resign, and in order to achieve us, on Friday at 1800 hours, we will hold a rally in the Republic Square. Please come.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10808	The word is made by MP Vladimir Garčević, and the following is reported to Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10809	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, looking at the proposed text of the law, I'm surprised by the title, he says, about the national holidays and some others there. By any other, whether or not you can do it any time you want to celebrate, it doesn't matter. He must be standing right here. If it's about national holidays, it's one segment, about religious holidays it's another segment. On the other hand, I would point out the following things: the marking of religious holidays does not begin with this law. It is clear to the public that the marking of religious holidays was in the Labour Law. Therefore, now it is the part that needs to be transferred from working relations to this law. It should look back on holidays like St. Sava's Day. We say school glory; I don't know what happened in other areas, but where I've been working for the last 10 years, the Holy Sava is being marked. They were introduced to students of a sacred charter who received more gifted students, where he is the sponsor of the SO. Every school marks the day and yet we have certain celebrations in church and liturgy. Thus, as a holiday, the Holy Sava has been marked for the last 10 years. As for Vidovdan, a light holiday, since 28 June 2001, this government and, in the end, DOS would not have the right to place the date as a holiday. Not as religious, not as state. I expect, and I must say, for the sake of the public, let President Kostunica make a promise to the MPs and the leadership of the SPS that kept the reception28. June. Please... (President: Please, Mr. Garcevic, stick to the topic. ....................................................................................................... Two hours of talks have been held and the Constitutional Court's decisions will be respected. The leadership, in my opinion, carried out a coup on the 28th night. Slobo will come back, be sure. (President: Mr Garcevic, let us leave the topic now and return to the proposal for a law on state and other holidays. ....................................................................................................... I'll be right back. Calm them down there. Freedom will return, for he is not guilty of anything for which you, gentlemen, accuse him. You were supposed to prove what he was guilty of when you had so much justice and justice. Our president when he gets back, and he'll be back - the SPS is there, it'll grow and progress, unlike you. You will slowly in history, like those others who betray their people. As far as Vidovdan is concerned, you have no moral right, nor any right to suggest. As for July 7th, please, I would see it as part of our civil war accident at the beginning. I would also watch the second part, if the battle against the Germans and all those who are now returning to this territory had been fought from 1941 to 1945. Therefore, July 7th cannot be interpreted on one side and that day, Fighter Day, has reason and will be marked because the fighter has. Those who won't, don't have to. Next, March 28th, because you want to erase the entire struggle. You say now, it's Slobo, constitutional amendments. We who live in the territory of the Vojvodina know what the Vojvodina state meant, and we know what the Kosovo state meant. Furthermore, centralization was too high or not. Well, you can always talk about economic centralised, and the necessity is that state attributes never return to the provinces, and I hope that this authority will stick to it. In terms of what's done in the economic sphere, that's another thing to look for. You don't mean to stop, that the Panchev students can't go to Belgrade. (President: Time, Mr. Garcevic. ....................................................................................................... I therefore propose that this law be withdrawn and completed, not only bearing the mark of two dates on March 28th and July 7th.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10810	The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word, and after him is the Messenger Rajko Baralić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10811	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia. At first, I have one remark, and that refers to the text itself. Why the bill of state and other holidays? This should be called the draft holiday law in the Republic of Serbia, and the other members should state what it should be, whether it's state, religious, folk and other holidays that people want and want. The explanation I'd like to mention here is about state holidays. If we compare what was the national holiday in the Republic of Serbia so far, which is Statehood Day on March 28, 1989, and the proposal that is now being made here for February 15, 1804. (The first Serbian uprising) or the day the Constitution was declared in 1835, then we should have a certain argument. I say the next argument is. More than 30 years or 60 years ago or a little over 12 years ago, since you've called us socialists, many of you have been communists. Some sat there in these benches, wearing Tito's staff, receiving Tito's scholarship, then living well and working under the cover of Comrade Tito. Then it was hard for them to say - Serbia lived. When our President Slobodan Milosevic was in Drvne on July 6th 1989, and this is one place with Požarevec, where the 1,000 megawatt thermopower plant was then released, he said at the end of the magnificent gathering -- Serbia lived, it was clear to all of us that a new Serbia was born. For this reason, do not blame this Serbian people hero who first said and dared to say it. None of you before that, those who have dealt with politics, have said this word - Serbia. Where were you then, or your ancestors, like-minded, who weren't, there's someone here on this side who knew who was wearing Tito's staff and what was who. Therefore, if we compare this, if we compare new elements related to this act - Gazimestan, 600 years of the Kosovo Battle, one great ceremony of a unique Serb being and people. Then we come up with other examples of what they're talking about, what's Serbian... (Glass from the O.R.: Theme. ) This is a topic because it is necessary to compare what it is that you say is not right in that bill that was, in relation to the bill that you are giving. Apparently, there are dilemmas here. As if the law had been passed for reasons to determine Serbia's statehood since it was the first Serbian uprising. Well, Serbia exists before it was 1804 years ago, it existed long before. First of all, it's a negative element. The 1835 constitution only confirms what is now in this situation apparently. And this constitution, as it is, for this small Serbia, told Belgrade Pashaluk that it is the inalienable right of all citizens of Serbia, to speak of each citizen having certain rights. If we compare these constitutions that were brought after that, all these constitutions are saying the same thing. But you're just breaking the Constitution. You're making it impossible for a citizen to have his right, to show his truth before the court and the law and prove his belongings and his integrity. With this bill of law that you have passed and given, to be declared as a holiday and to be a working holiday (I don't know how the holiday can be celebrated at work) - it's, to say one stupid thing that we've had - working to celebrate a holiday... So, either celebrate it or not. So there's some dilemma that we need to clear up with these amendments. But, Vidovdan, one holy day, one day which is the memory of our fighters from Kosovo who are known in the history of our people. It is clear to all that unity, not only of the Serb people, was achieved there, but of all the people who lived and worked and loved that Serbia and achieved one heroism, began by Emperor Lazar, through Milos Obilic and other heroes of the Serbian people. Therefore, it is a holy day and should be understood as such. But in history after that, this Vidoved day was used for many terms that were shameful for the date related to him. Let's say, let's take the 1921 Vidovdan Constitution that barely passed in that Serbian parliament, which simply lasted very little and short. In 1929, King Alexander abolished the military-monarchist coup and established a new dictatorship. Therefore, we must observe this history as it is. And she's like this, that on Vidovday 2001 we send a Serbian and Serb hero to where he shouldn't be. If he's guilty, he's supposed to answer here. Anyone who is guilty should respond in Serbia, both Slobodan Milosevic and the other Serbs. You have blackened Serbia, you have blackened history, you have blackened a Serbian citizen. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is not legitimate and which has done one counter-constitutional act...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10812	I ask the MP to take care of the qualifications he gives for state institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10813	The government of the Republic of Serbia, which took charge of the legislative authority, taking over as an executive body something that is not within its authority, has done one shameful act and destroyed everything that is sacred and Serbian and is to resign. I think the rally that will be held on Friday at 6:00 p.m. will give answers. You can be nervous, we're not nervous. We're looking at you right now, watching you, and we're going to end up telling you right now, the way it's supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10814	You can also watch and observe, but you have a duty to present facts for this speaker. So, if you're expressing your view of the illegality of the government, that's how you disrespect the National Assembly that has chosen this government, and I ask you not to do it anymore. There is the word of the People's Messenger Rajko Baralic, let the Messenger of God be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10815	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected journalists, I would first of all like to congratulate my colleagues in DOS on the formation of new parliamentary clubs. The people said, "We're multiplying, we're rolling, there's going to be more." Who is a serious political party, he sends the club to form at the beginning, when the Assembly is established, and others when they learn from the coalition with the Democratic Party. But it's never too late. There'll be more. The proposal for a law on national and other holidays is no new proposal, except that two national holidays are lifted. All the others mentioned here have so far been regulated by some other laws, the Labour Relations Act, and that's to be said, that you don't think you're making any new law based on which you're giving someone rights they haven't had so far. You're kind of courting a number of voters here. So, that election body that's not Orthodox. That's how I understand it. That way you provide the continuity of what you do. Well, so respected are fellow MPs from your MP club, another day in it, saying that people who confess their faith as Orthodox are in a law that the DOS proposes denied for two days of celebration compared to others. That's what the public of Serbia needs to know. This law does not mention anything on which day atheists are entitled, if they are already correct claims by the MP that they are 45% in this country. So, as for July 7th, it's another way you're trying to declare an anti-fascist struggle a non-free and analytical struggle. But whatever. I congratulate the citizens of Serbia, the NOR fighters-- and their families on the Day of Resurrection with two days of delay. No law of yours will bother these people that, like the Fourth of July, they mark it the way they think it should be. Tell me what was wrong with Politburo's decision on July 4th to set foot in an armed uprising against the German solidate. It was a decision. If that decision from your point of view is controversial, then there is much dispute in what you do. You are today the image of the Belgrade regime that is doing everything that no one has ever done in Serbia. And today, you step on everything you've done in the election campaign and the ten-year struggle, as you like to say, you've highlighted as basic assets and values of political action. But whatever. And it will pass, as it goes, and everything else. Serbia will forget you, because soon you will be on your own. Remember well, for what you do to others, the people would say in the righteousness of God; they will do to you in the righteousness of the law. (Addressing): What's the topic? The theme is Vidovdan. And on Vidovdan you did what no one ever did to his people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10816	You've been talking for five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10817	I'll speak for eight minutes, as well as some others you didn't warn. Irregularity in the O.R. But don't be angry, I won't. Since you didn't hear correctly before when my colleague here said something, and I see you're expressing interest, then let me say that on Friday at 6:00 p.m., there's a big rally in the Republic Square.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10818	I ask the MPs to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly not to abuse the speaker of the National Assembly and not to make it very clear that we speak one thing and the other we do. MP Dejan Mihajlov as president of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10819	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I speak for the first time in this assembly in front of the DOS-DSS parliamentary group and believe us, you have been officially informed, we have officially surrendered and I hope that you will get to know each other, but that's not the point I'm going to talk about. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: When informed, please inform us officially of the new parliamentary group. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10820	I ask the People's Messengers not to speak to the speaker from the bench and ask MP Dean Michael to continue his exposure. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: When you informed us, what does that mean? )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10821	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I won't call and I won't comment on Vidovdan in 1989 or Vidovdan in 2001. I believe both holidays and both dates were used equally for some kind of demonstration of force. We have seen how this happened in 1989 and the consequences of that meeting on Vidovdan, and I hope that this year's consequences will not be as they were in 1989, and I hope that from that day on we will go quite differently and in a new democratic way, with respect for the rule of law. The DSS will vote for the law. We believe that this law is good and we think, and that has proved to be true, that no religious community has objected to this law and that it is in agreement with it. That's what makes us especially happy. The law represents the right path for all members of the Serbian nationality in this country, so that they can accept it and represent a kind of consensus. Someone here said the Second World War, or Civil War, ended on October 5th. That's right. They've finally ended up dividing into partisans and Chetniks, all those who think and don't think differently. It's a good thing it is. This law is an indication that Serbia can go the other way, that the laws, which have mirrored the state, and just the holidays are the mirrors of a state, that they can be different from what they were so far. Any country that changes holidays, harmonising them with its methodology, is not a good country. We tried, the commission tried to create holidays that would be the mirror of the entire state, which would be a mirror for every citizen of that state. And this is the way we managed to do it, and the DSS and all its MPs are satisfied with this law. That's why we're going to vote and we don't have any amendments to this law and we think this law represents a real example of a modern state that Serbia is seeking and what Serbia is going to do. What is important, and this is an indicator, that we as DOS in this assembly will make sure that a new system of values is set free from the ideological obstacles that have been so far, a system of values that will be a combination of traditional values associated with the century and the time in which we live. That's what Serbia has forgotten all these years and that's what the previous government tried to do. She tried to bless the Serbs, to separate the Serbs from what could not be separated, from what is an integral part of their being. It's a religious and cultural connection, that's what made Serbs all these centuries. And not only the Serbs, but all the citizens of this country who celebrated the religious holidays. That power didn't work, and also because these holidays are something more and more powerful, which can't be shared with one piece of paper and one piece of pen, they live in all of us, they're an integral part of us, and that's why I hope that no more power will do what our predecessors tried to do. As I said, this law is good, it should be supported and returned to its old traditional values that will be filled with those values at the end of the 20th century. It should be returned to historic, or important dates for Serbs. We know that for every nation, a good proverb -- who doesn't remember his own history, is obliged to repeat it. We must not forget our history, but we must look to the future as we do now. That is why I call on all MPs in this assembly to reach a consensus on the vote of this law because that is exactly what the proposaler intended and was, to finally make Serbs agree on at least one thing, on important dates and on history.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10822	National MP Vojislav Seselj, advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10823	The SRS has no objection to the formation of new parliamentary groups if the conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure are met. As soon as a new parliamentary group is formed, it is required to deliver an act on forming with the signatures of all members of the National Assembly president, and the National Assembly president should inform the National Assembly in writing, as has always been a practice in the past 10 years. When all existing parliamentary groups were previously formed, the National Assembly was written in writing with the names and facsimile of the signatures of the MPs who make up the parliamentary group. We need two letters here, so I don't call them acts. I can call myself an act. They also say Velya Ilic formed a parliamentary group, but I don't know if that's true. This is, for example, a situation that you can lead us to if you do not stick to the Rules of Procedure and so far parliamentary practices. In accordance with Article 24 and Article 39. Rules of Procedure, MPs' groups must inform you in writing of their formation. You are required to inform the National Assembly, that the National Assembly knows how many parliamentary groups there are and who makes up these parliamentary groups. It takes at least two written acts here. First, an act on the formation of a new DSS-DOS synaptic group, as it is already called, and how do I know what it's called when we're not informed in writing? Then we need an act, a new act of the already existing DOS because they have reduced the number of members, to see who their members are now, eventually, if New Serbia has formed a parliamentary group, and then we need an act on their formation, so that we know, because the existence of parliamentary groups brings some new rights to the Assembly. For example. The head of the parliamentary group has the right to speak three times in the general debate and by any amendment when the debate starts in particular. To see who's right, to inform us, to know, to follow, so you don't accidentally trick us, that's the point. If this tradition existed here in the Assembly, if it is parliamentary practice, if so has been prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, then you should respect it and inform us urgently about the new parliamentary groups and the current structure, those old parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10824	National MP Vojislav Seselj must decide whether he is advocating a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or an amendment to what was a practice in this assembly. If we are talking about the first, which is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that is, Article 24, the parliamentary group informs the President of the National Assembly, that is, the one empowered by the President of the National Assembly to hold a session today and replace it and it is done. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall not oblige the President or the Chairman to notify the MPs in writing. In Article 39 of the Communication, the business obligation is also carried out between MPs, MPs belonging to parties or coalitions and presidents, or the chairman of the National Assembly. I am not saying that until now, the practice that previous presidents or presidents are texting and that this with the National Assembly was good or not, is simply not a business obligation. Therefore, neither Article 24 nor Article 39 has been violated in any of its positions, the document is a DOS parliamentary group, Dr Vojislav Kostunica, DSS at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted with signatures from the chairman of the National Assembly, and thus fulfils the obligations of the Rules of Procedure and MPs and the chairman. Do you want to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10825	You forget one thing, that the president of the National Assembly is only the first among the equals and nothing more. When the president of the National Assembly is informed, it is understood that the entire National Assembly is informed at that time, but then the president must not keep this notice secret, but must immediately forward it to the MPs. Here is how the National Assembly was informed of the formation of parliamentary groups immediately after the constitution. Here you go, with lists of members of all the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. Was this nonsense? What was that? Do you think this Rule of Procedure of the 24th or 39th implies that the president of the National Assembly is informed, and that he is then kept secret from that information he has received, this information that has been sent to him? Don't mock this National Assembly. We're too much and too often ridiculed. Indeed, we feel shameful in front of the entire nation for all that the government in Serbia is doing and now you are still humiliating the National Assembly by telling it - I am informed and over. You cannot be informed of anything without being informed of every messenger in the National Assembly. You're nothing but a nobody outside this National Assembly, and here you're only the first among the equals. It is your right to receive this paper first, not to deny it to all other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10826	I suppose that none of it was figuratively marked, since I have a name and a last name, and a profession and beyond this period when I was given a mandate on the DOS list, and I'm going to say that as figuratively and as a strength of comparison, as opposed to marking the importance of being a national MP. Unfortunately, even without a reference to a new member of the Rules of Procedure, no matter what you have said to another member of the Rules of Procedure, you mean some things that have not been determined by the Rules of Procedure. The misunderstanding between your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and what has been done is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been informed that the parliamentary group of DOS was formed, Dr Vojislav Kostunica - the Democratic Party of Serbia at the moment its president asked for a word. So, by declaring the basis on which MP Dejan Mihajlov gets his word, you are informed that a new parliamentary group has been formed. If you consider that part of the parliamentary practice to be written notice, it is not disputed that the National Assembly should be informed in writing, but then let's talk about something that is the rule of work, not something that is the Rules of Procedure, and I suppose we should ask the Service to forward it to all the MPs if you so request. A document was entered on 9th of July under number 02-1931/01. You didn't list a member of the Rules of Procedure, so I can't say if you want to vote. There's a difference in practice, and that's how much I can agree with you. The previous chairman was informed in writing, and I informed you orally. MP Tomislav Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10827	You have violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, several of its provisions, and I will prove to you that you have injured and I no longer need any explanation after that. Indeed, Article 24 states that the parliamentary group is being established by submitting to the National Assembly a list of members who make up the parliamentary group. The last position of that member is "the MP can only be a member of one parliamentary group". In fact, Article 39 says that when new members of the parliamentary group are joined, a list of their accession statements is delivered to the National Assembly president, or attitude 1, asks you to ask the president of the DOS parliamentary group for a new composition of the DOS parliamentary group. All that we've been saying so far, that it was a practice, to read to you Article 138: "A proposal to amend the amendment of the bill, the amendment, is submitted to the National Assembly in writing." Now you could interpret it if the president of the National Assembly got the amendment, he'll say here -- we've got some amendments, and you gentlemen Members of Parliament are doing what you want, it's my right to keep these amendments, you're doing it by the service, if you want the services to give you the amendments. This is about the parliamentary group, by establishing a parliamentary group, establishing certain rights, the right to be president of a parliamentary group, the other to be a deputy, that the group has the right to represent someone according to a certain point of the agenda, but at the same time means that it draws a number of vice-presidential seats, seats on boards, everything has to be re-constituted, and that at the same time means that there is no longer a member of the DOS, or that Mr Jovanovic no longer has the right to go out for this speaker, until he delivers a new list that will make 120 and how many DOS MPs who sign him membership in that parliamentary group. At this moment, DSS MPs are in two parliamentary groups and New Serbia MPs are in two parliamentary groups and if this is according to the Rules of Procedure, then there is really nothing more to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10828	Regardless of what you are not asking for an explanation and whatever the imaginative analogy, Article 138 says: "A proposal for amending and supplementing the law, amendments, is submitted to the President of the National Assembly in writing, with an explanation, starting from the date of submission of the bill, and no later than three days before the date specified for holding the session for which the examination of this bill is proposed." Your analogy with the written delivery obligation would have been if you hadn't been given the written text of the amendment at the session, and that there was parliamentary practice in which day amendments, which are naturally addressed to the president of the National Assembly, were delivered. As for membership in the parliamentary group, all the members of the DSS, respecting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at the time they acted on their own agreement and the definition of forming a parliamentary group, and since they cannot be members of the two parliamentary groups, they publicly declare by their signatures which parliamentary groups are members.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10829	Mrs. Comic, you have now informed the National Assembly that the DOS-Democratic Party of Serbia was formed on July 9th. Is that true?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10830	It's in the head.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10831	We have here amendments to the DOS-Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary groups since 6 June. That's what we got officially from you. You see the chaos you're making here with such sloppy work, sloppy relationships, not to say something much worse. I can't just imagine that it's possible for you to do all this on purpose. I can't figure out why they'd do this on purpose. You see the chaos you produce in the Assembly, organised chaos: On June 6th, the DOS parliamentary group - the Democratic Party of Serbia submits amendments, and on July 9th, you were informed that they were formed. This is prenatal looks, while they were still planning to give birth, and they gave birth on July 9th.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10832	I assume you're warning that by writing on the amendment applicant, article 24 has been violated and that the violations of the Rules of Procedure have been committed by the MPs who put the name before they were established. I don't know who this breach of the Rules of Procedure applies to. I'm glad we agree. The People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10833	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the State Holidays Act, I purposely say the State Holidays Act, and not on other holidays, because other holidays, and I suppose you assume that it applies to the International Labour Festival and New Year's, are governed by federal law, and then it is extremely unnecessary to write on other holidays, but these are the religious holidays that have become state holidays. So the law on national holidays is a law that changes this matter in an extremely radical and radical way, unlike previous laws. By passing this law, as said in Article 6, the laws so far will be abolished, including the Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia, the "Official Messenger" from the Socialist Republic of Serbia, 1977, and later on other amendments and additions, and part of the provisions and members of the Labour Law, which treated matter with the recognition of the right to receive the day for Christian glory and other religious holidays. So he is the root of change, he is bringing something new, and what's most important, this way we give up the ideological holidays, which we have been burdened from World War II to this day, and if in a small way, and then it's certain, we return to Serbia the recognition of its history, or as an attempt to factor even more into it in future times, consider and perfect it. In that sense, and I understand the Meeting of the Lord for the Day of Statehood, and in any case, it was recognised by the applicant of the proposal, the competent minister, when he said he was also constitutional. The meeting of the Lord unites what is known in Serbian memory as February 15th, 1804th, when Serbs raised the first Serbian uprising. He is also in a way the personification of Karadjordjordz, and thus the entire period of the Karadjordjevic dynasty. The meeting of the Lord is also February 15, 1835, when the Constitution of the Republic of Kragujevac was adopted. He is the first constitution in the modern Serbian state, and he is not the first at all. In a way, if we claim that it is the first, then we must deny and deny it, and I don't think DOS should do what Emperor Stefan Dušan did - the famous Dušan code. If we realize that this is the first constitution in the modern Serbian state, which later came to what was before the First World War, one of the strongest, most modern and best organized and economically and in any other legal and moral and social sense, and this is Pasic's state before the First World War, then we can kind of see the meeting of the Lord as reconciliation and unification on one side of Karadjordjevic, and on the other side of Obrenovic. The Sretenjski Constitution personifies Milos the Great, and later Obrenovic's dynasty. I hope I don't mind those who propose this law, because I have no intention of disabling the Meeting, or any other days, but I'd like to say that it's not good what is later on in Article 3 the last attitude says, "If the holiday from Article 1."and on February 15th, the meeting "falls on Sunday, is not done on the first day." We'll have these cases in Serbia for the next few years. Here, already in 2004 Meeting of the Lord - February 15th will fall on Sunday 2004. Then what shall we celebrate - whether the Meeting of the Lord, as a day of statehood and constitutionality of Serbia, or whether we will celebrate the Holy Simeon of God, who will fall on 16 February 2004 on Monday? We'll do it because the Sunday meeting is on Monday. That's why it's not good for him to have this attitude in Article 3, that we like to celebrate and not work, that that day because it falls on Sunday on the next day. It is not good for all those who, like all citizens of Serbia, will celebrate the Lord's Meeting. But that's what the legislator who prescribed and proposed this law should think, especially those who claim to be experts and experts in that commission who chose it. What's good in this law and what's institutionally solved, and what's going to go away when these two laws that treated this matter are abolished, is that there's absolute religious tolerance. It is good and it has always been at the heart of the Serbian people - the recognition of certain religious tolerance. Through this law it will be built in. In this way, no country in the world can say everything that is said about our Serbia. What's also wrong is one hasty in passing this law. (President: 5.30 minutes. ) As if the Serbian government had no time to wait for the federal law to settle it, and Serbia as one of the federal units to pass such a law. Apparently, DOS tells us in an indirect manner that it will not be able to negotiate with another federal unit and that it wants to drive Montenegro out of the Federal Republic, so it already predetermins what will be done. (President: 6 minutes. Why else would he propose the law, if he wanted to do something good, not do it? That's because he predicted that St. Sava and Vidovdan would be working holidays. I hope that in the debate in particular, all the MPs of the SRS will be able to convince you of the need for St. Sava and Vidovdan, because of the importance in the Serbian people to have one and the other, to become state holidays.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10834	The Messenger of the people is Zlatan Jovanovic, and after him is the messenger of the people of Sredo (Mihail).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10835	Ladies and gentlemen, it has already become common for the draft law not to appear in this assembly when discussing laws brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There's no one from the government again today. This morning, the minister quickly read the explanation, and then lost himself from this congregation, refusing to listen to the MPs, who wanted to make their contribution to making a good and good law. In addition to everything the representatives of the SRS have said about this law, which means that it is generally better than the previous one, that it has one good line, a line that excludes ideology, I want to make a few remarks, to point out some things that I don't think are good and precisely defined in this law. First, the very title of this law is not accurate. Namely, the title is - Proposal for a law on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia. A few speakers have already said this isn't a good title, this isn't accurate. I agree with that, and I think this word "other" should be thrown out, because it's ambiguous. So it's not a precise formulation. Article 1 of the first sentence reads: "The state holiday of the Republic of Serbia is the Meeting, the Day of Statehood of Serbia. "The Orthodox calendar for this holiday writes - Meeting of the Lord. Therefore, if the promoter wanted to respect and to wash out what was religious, it should have defined how it stands in the Orthodox calendar or that it was not in this article at all. Article 2 in the 1st item says, "The Republic of Serbia celebrates religious holidays: 1st day of Christmas - 7 January." It's normal for me to accept that, and I think it's perfectly normal and quite in place. However, anyone who celebrates Christmas knows that it is probably the greatest Christian holiday, but also that this holiday requires some preparation. It is a holiday that is celebrated within the family, and to be celebrated in an adequate way, requires and prepare. I think you should add here that next to the first day of Christmas, Christmas Day is celebrated. On Christmas Eve, Christmas Eve, Christmas Eve, Christmas Eve, people who are employed, who work the first shift, they won't be able to cut and bring Christmas Eve home, and if they work the second shift, they won't be able to perform that religious ceremony, the religious part of the night, the nesting of Christmas Eve. So I think Christmas should be celebrated. In Article 3, the fourth point is said - if the holiday laid down in Article 1 of this law falls on Sunday, it is not done on the first day. I think it's too high to celebrate the next day if the holiday falls on Sunday. So, you shouldn't be prolonging what's already impossible to prolong. Article 4 states in the first position - employees have the right not to work on the days of the next religious holidays, 1) Orthodox people on the first day of baptism. I'm a Orthodox, celebrating the glory of the cross, but I don't understand until the end what is the first day of baptism. In my neighborhood, it's been celebrated for three days, but only one day is dedicated to the saint, just one day, and I think it's quite enough and precise and without this word "first." So, the Orthodox on the day of the baptism of glory. But I also think that there is a day to be added here before that day to be celebrated, because it is also necessary to prepare, and we all know that, on the day of glory, friends and relatives come, etc., everything that is necessary for guests to be welcomed. Therefore, that day should be celebrated on the eve of glory. At point 2, Catholics and members of other Christian religious communities stand. I don't know, besides Orthodox and Catholics in Serbia, what are these other Christian religious communities? True, it was heard here by some DOS MPs that there are some small religious communities. I call it sects, and I don't think sects belong in this law. Article 5 states, in paragraph 1, that the work of the Holy Sava, the day of spirituality, and Vidovdan are celebrated in the Republic of Serbia, mentioning Kosovo's battle. I think this is a little communist termology -- a work celebration. Celebration can't be a job - either it's a job, or it's a holiday, so it's celebrated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10836	The word of the messenger of the people is Sredoiah Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10837	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, we of Vojvodina must say that this law on national holidays suits us and we believe that it is a modern European law, which has tried to reconcile all religious, national and other feelings, to find some matrix, some formula, that will satisfy all of us who live here in this Serbia. Of course, March 28th never answered us, it was a day of humiliation for us Dukes and we did not celebrate it and experience it as a celebration. That was offensive to us, and we don't think we could celebrate that day. Of course, I don't think it suits us Serbs on July 7th, because that date favored only one side, and there should be national reconciliation and it should be understood that Serbs were also in Chetniks, that they were also in Partisans, and there is no need to insult either side, and that thing should be left for a little bit to see what history will say about it. But it was mentioned here, I would certainly like to remind you, I think that there were some two dates from our duchy history, or three, that we could run for state holidays, and that we thought we wouldn't insult our feelings and that they might be acceptable to everyone who lives in Serbia. This was mentioned in 1594, when the Serbs in Banat, together with the Hungarians and Romanians, raised the uprising, expelled the Turks from Banat, freed the part of Banat, and in retribution they experienced that Sinan Pasha had taken out the Mosts of the Holy Sava and burned them in Vratar, to show the Serbs, the shortcuts how their saint burns. That was on the Big Friday, 1595. So, we thought maybe there was a date that might have entered that competition because they participated in that uprising, that's the exit of Serbs to the European scene. At the time, the Serbs had so many organized soldiers, but they had no nobility, they couldn't hold that power until the end. The second date that we thought could be run is May 15th, when Patriarch Rajacic declared the Serbian Duchy, or Serbian Vojvodina, and we felt that the date might also be significant. The third would be the decision of the Vojvodina Assembly to join the queen of Serbia. These are some dates, but you didn't pass either, and we of the Vojvodina Coalition will vote for these proposals. We will vote in favour of these proposals under the law, we welcome because we still think they are dates that we can all support. Of course we don't mysteriously, as some would have done some mystifications since some dates. Of course, we don't think it's just supposed to be church holidays, that's respect, that's respect, that we respect ourselves, that we can all celebrate our saints and honor our faith, that's order, that's a civil custom, and we also welcome it. We are pleased that everyone can quietly celebrate their spiritual festivals, and these, newly-compromised, or almost-broken, baptized, who have now entered the church and who are giving us a lecture on church customs, would say little to wait. It's like if you assigned someone to play football now, and he'd look funny if he had 120 pounds, and he doesn't know anything. You'd laugh at him. So also those who lamentate there over some clergy, and do not know enough, would rather wait a little while, if they could breathe, then take part in the discussion. The Vojvodina coalition will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10838	The word is by MP Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10839	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know which camera he's recording, to welcome members of the government, who are probably watching this from the cabinet, because they're not present during all of our sessions anyway. In addition to the legendaryly poor package of tax laws of Minister Djelic, you are giving another bill, absolutely, totally unconstitutional, which, normally, will be unanimously adopted at today's session on the proposal of the Central Committee of the SK DOS. However, given that according to DOS criteria, it is currently "in" to work unconstitutionally, because you can have an ordinary regulation stronger than the Constitution, then I can accept this proposal as such. Let's move in a row - Article 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees the equality of citizens in rights and duties, regardless of religion, which is guaranteed by Article 2. The bill violates the imposition of Orthodox holidays on believers of another religion. Since in Serbia in December, for you, as well as Milo Djukanovic in Montenegro, those who are not Orthodox voted for, you will disappoint your voters with this move. Second, no problem, can I just ask you to be without throwing it away?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10840	I ask the MPs to listen to each other's attention and respect, not because something is said new, but because our attitude about how we listen to speakers and how we respect one another speaks about the respect of this National Assembly. Excuse me, Mr. Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10841	Thank you, Chairman. I can fully understand that some MPs do not follow what the speakers say, but that they do not know Serbian history, I cannot understand it at all. As a Serbian Orthodox, it is no problem for me to accept that the meeting of the Lord is the day of Serbia's statehood. I can't accept that by making the feather delete July 7th, which is what it is, but it's a day of rebellion against fascism. Although all of Europe and the world fought against fascism, I think DOS will be in China's ranks, not China, but Macedonia, which produced Taiwan. I also cannot accept that by the pen move you really delete March 28th, the day Serbia became unique throughout its territory, the day Serbia gained statehood. Perhaps a government regulation, since government regulations are modern today, should put an end to all markets of fallen fighters or victims of fascism, in order to get some donation. I'm sorry, the loan, since the donations have nothing to do with the six promised billion. The same for you, because in fact the day Serbia became unique in its territory doesn't mean anything, because you primarily have homework to divide Yugoslavia into two parts, Serbia and Montenegro, and to share Serbia in the Republic of Vojvodina, the Republic of Kosovo and central Serbia. Then central Serbia to 602 regions and 1,300 municipalities. You will fulfill this task, I will not help you. It is normal, then, that for the Central Committee of the Alliance of Communists DOS on March 28th does not mean anything. Since some fellow MPs are asking me to link this story of mine, they don't understand what this is about. I'm talking about that 90% of you in this room were the great Tito pioneers, members of the Communist Union, whom I wasn't, and all the other organizations, and don't spit on your past like that, don't make fun of your parents. At least be a little dignified. In the light of the bill, you say Vidovdan is the basic concept of Serbian historical memory. You're right, because since this year, Vidovdan has been. Since June 28, 2001, however, a shameful year... (President: five minutes 45 seconds. ....................................................................................................... I end up, when you have delivered Mr Milosevic to The Hague tribunal, against the constitution, from that day forward, Vidovdan will be remembered for something else, but to the great shame on you. Just to remind you that you were welcomed together by the bishop of Amphilochy Radovic, that all professors, i.e. 51 professor of law school and you were welcomed by the "light and dark mask" from BK TV last night. In the end... (President: six minutes 30 seconds. ....................................................................................................... I ask you to insert the cards and accept one of the amendments that I have read, and I think it was submitted by the DOS MP, to highlight on the day of the statehood of the Republic of Serbia the flags of the Republic of Serbia, even if we symbolically preserve that little dignity of this country, which you are wasting so well on the path you are leading this country. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10842	The word has the People's MP Stanko Kovacevic, I apologize, MP Stevan Ž. Guduric asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10843	Article 67. The board of directors made an effort to build a miracle, so he could patent it. To supplement it. It is said that one who is only before or after noon in the Assembly has the right to half the cost, so it turns out that there is a way in, that the car is coming by car, that the car doesn't spend miles or more of fuel, and then that would be the best. I just don't know how it's gonna come up. Or, while you're making fun of the MPs, why didn't you introduce in that proposal that we have a director, and that a teacher or teacher has, depending on who's here, who's here, who's in the corner of a grain of corn, and that determines the penalties.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10844	I ask the MP that he does not present his personal fantasies behind the speaker of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have lagged behind, so I can't even ask what's been broken, since this looked like it looked like. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10845	Madam Chairman, I call on Article 98 of Section One, which says that the speaker can only speak about the issue on the agenda. That certainly applies to the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. We have people here who come to their senses, advertise as a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and get word on that basis. Please don't let that happen anymore. What does it matter what he advertised, what he's been talking about all day? Think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10846	You are absolutely right, and a large number of MPs today have not done an elemental effort, except I can count on the fingers of five or six who respected the time that the National Assembly voted for the length of the speech. Secondly, according to the Rules of Procedure, the chairman is obliged to take over the order, and when the previous MP completes his presentation, he is obliged to say to the MP who seeks the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. I can't, because someone else abuses the Rules of Procedure, to put myself in a position to abuse the Rules of Procedure, and not allow words when a MP so requests. Everything else is on the conscience, honor and understanding of the obligations of the MPs of the people. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10847	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 96 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, which says the speaker can only talk about the subject on the agenda. The previous speaker, he spoke of, did not speak of a subject that is on the agenda at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10848	There's a word from MP Stanko Kovacevic. I ask the MP to stick to the topic on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10849	I don't think I ever went out for this pay phone without talking about a subject that's on the agenda. One time I was warned by Mr. Martian, he was at some point, probably absent, and he didn't realize that every word I said for this pay phone was on the agenda. But let's put that aside. DOS MPs from the Democratic Serbia Movement will vote for the adoption of this legislative project because we are aware of the fact that this legal project puts state holidays and religious holidays matter, working and non-workdays into state and legal regulation, eliminating any ideology. The best evidence for this is the elimination of any dates that may be related to the ideological character of Serbia. But many MPs at this pay phone have tried to propose a state holiday, Vidovdan, for some events in the last few days. They don't need to be resented for that. Because their only chance to go out for this speaker, to promote their political views is to just tie their political views to our proposals, to oppose us. But they don't need to be resented. Many have told this speaker that, in our history, we have a large number of dates and features that could find places in this legal project, but, dear gentlemen, I guess the expert group that prepared the proposal, or the draft of this law, took care of it. It is impossible to put all possible dates from our history, dates of national minorities or religious holidays of national minorities into this law. Because then this country would really be a world miracle by the number of holidays, working days and work days and working celebrations. But several MPs also spoke here about how many religious objects were destroyed, attacked, etc. during the bombing. It seems to me that some of them, and the idea for that was given to me by my friend, Mr Stanimirovic, most unfortunately expressed for the most famous religious facility in New Belgrade, the former building of the Central Committee, which was bombed and destroyed. More regrets for her than for the destroyed churches and monasteries in Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10850	The motionary's not present, is there anyone else in the search for word in principle? If not, I conclude a principled search and put to the vote the draft law on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia in principle. For 123, against 39, the two abstentions, did not vote 19, out of 183 MPs. I find the National Assembly with 123 votes accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MP Borislav Pelevic has tabled an amendment proposing an amendment to the name of the bill. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10851	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed this amendment to change the name of this law and to be called: a bill on state and religious holidays of the Republic of Serbia. I think the term proposed is not adequate, because it says it is a state and other holiday in the Republic of Serbia. So, since this isn't about any other holidays, so it's not about this law or New Year's, or May 1st, I think this would be an appropriate name for this law. This is all about national and religious holidays. I therefore appeal to you that this amendment be adopted in order for this law to have an appropriate name. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10852	Do any of the other senior MPs want a word? There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10853	The name of the law would have to change anyway. There is no point in calling it: the law on state and other holidays in the Republic of Serbia. But I'm not sure this is the happiest solution, to be the law of national and religious holidays. Because religious holidays can't be prescribed by the state. They can only be prescribed by the Church. The state can't interfere with that. The state here particularly respects some religious laws. Thus, the title of this law would be better: the law on official holidays of the Republic of Serbia or only the law on holidays of the Republic of Serbia. That would be best. Because then these are some pure national holidays, and some religious ones, to which the state gives special meaning. That would be much better than what was proposed in the amendment. But in any case, the title that the government has submitted has to change, because it's terribly obnoxious and I don't think there's any role model in the laws so far. To have some law read: the law of it and other things. You know, it's pointless and shouldn't stay like that. The SRS parliamentary group has not voted on the law of principle, we are waiting to hear what the government's position will be. If the government shows good will and corrects the legal text, we believe that there are opportunities to vote in favour of the law. If the government doesn't show good faith, then we'll vote against the law as a whole. We're just putting the government to the test right now. Whether she wants us to have a good holiday law or just pro form to adopt an act that will change the next power, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10854	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put to vote the amendments of MP Borislav Pelevic. For 22, against 113 abstentions, 29 did not vote 19, out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Pal Shandor. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the MP want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10855	Dear colleagues, the idea of my amendment is to correct on one side what is not quite perfect, because the proposal says that the first Serbian uprising has been declared. I'm afraid these are pregnant languages that aren't too clean in this age. The uprising doesn't promote, the uprising rises, so out of that thought I dared write it. My second idea was, and you saw in the amendment, I contributed, and the Happy Constitution itself and the idea was that he was a little bit of a language thing to fix, it's just the first attitude of this member, and the second attitude of this member remains the way he is, that he is somehow wearing the finger of the age in which the Happy Constitution came into being. Allow me to read, with the intention of convincing you, to accept my amendment: the state holiday of the Republic of Serbia is the Meeting, the day of Serbia's statehood, the mention of the day the first Serbian uprising was raised in Orasco in 1804 and the day in Kragujevac in 1835, was issued and sworn by the first constitution of the library of Serbia. Here the verb "issued" is not in the sense of betraying, canceling, but whatever the press issues. My intention was to use a little language in this law where this could be appropriate, to point to that tradition of the Happy Constitution. The government in this response, which rejects my amendment, says archaicisation of legal texts is not common or unacceptable. I can accept that it's some other law and that it's some other matter. Here, I think, it's quite appropriate that we have one of these little archaics, which points to some tradition that languageically fits in. If it were any other law, where it's unnatural, given the development of thermology, I could accept that argument, but here it doesn't bother and puts some of our relationship to tradition. So I ask you, no matter what the Government thinks, to vote for my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10856	Do any of the other authorities want a word? Yes, MP Vojislav Seselj as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10857	The SRS is not ready to support this amendment, although we believe that the existing text in the law should be improved, embellished, dressed. It should formulate itself as the day of constitutionality, not the day of statehood. First, the first Serbian uprising was not successful. When Napoleon set out for Russia, Russia was no longer able to find Serb rebels and the uprising was stifled. That's when the Turks almost half of Serbia were enslaved. After the first uprising, Karajorge was the most frozen person in Serbia. He left the people in the lurch, and fled across the Sava, fled to Austria, still abroad. But when Karadjorje was killed, his cult was born. The people forgot that Karadjordje was a failure as a leader, the people forgot that Karadjordje killed his own brother, that he killed his father. The people forgot that Karadjordje fled and left Serbs behind. Milos Obrenovic killed him and sent his head to the Sultan, so hurt the Serbian people, that everything bad immediately forgot and created the Karadjordje’s cult, which lasts to this day and is inexhaustible. You DOS need historical lessons. You know, the Serbian people resented Milosevic for having failed his national policy, but with what you did to Milosevic on Vidovdan, you did something you won't be aware of for long. As far as constitutional day is concerned, it is the most liberal constitution of Europe of that time. That's why it's important. The Happy Constitution was almost as liberal as the American. No European constitution of that time could be measured with Sretenjska. That's why all the great forces stood up against the Sretenjski Constitution, and Russia, and Austria, and Turkey. And a new 38th-year constitution for Serbia, the Turkish Sultan prescribed it. Don't forget, Serb brothers, that our flag, too, was prescribed by the Turkish Sultan by Ferman. Serbian leaders went to Russia, brought the Russian flag to ask the sultan to declare the Russian flag a Serbian flag. But the ignorant people turned that flag upside down, so instead of the flag being white, blue and red, it's red, blue, white. And the sultan had no place to go for thirty and some years, when Russia had already stood on its feet and was powerful, the most powerful European force, had no place to go, had to prescribe its ferman Russian flag as a Serbian flag, but it turned in its colors, because Serbian representatives who first went to Russia to get that flag, so they carried the Sultan to Constantinople, the poor did not know what the true order of colors was. Regardless of the mistake, the Serbian people across all Serbian countries loved their flag very quickly and remained loyal until today and I think more. These things from history should be known, if we want an ugly and tragic past not to repeat itself. Unfortunately, when the ignorant take matters into their own hands, they lead to new tragedies, they cause new fractures, new troubles, and there is no end. This text should be improved, the importance of the Sretenjski Constitution should be potentiated. Of course, nothing harms to mention that it is also the day the first Serbian uprising was raised, but the issue of constitutionality here is an essential issue. The Serbs had statehood long before the Happy Constitution. Hundreds and hundreds of years before that, in the distant past, even in the past that is unremembered and unwritten. Today, we are not sure that St. John Vladimir was indeed the first Serbian king. There may have been some before him who were called kings, but there was no written trace left, and history only admits what was written. In this case, we plead that day should be a day of constitutionality, not a day of statehood, and that the day of the Holy Save should be a day of spirituality and statehood.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-07-09-0.u10858	Anyone else want a word from an authorized participant? If not, I ask the MPs to plead with the vote. For 96, against 46, generous 17, 20 of the 179 MPs did not vote. I find the National Assembly with 96 votes has accepted this amendment. This concludes the work of today's part of the 7th extraordinary session and continues tomorrow at 10.00 hours with the amendment of MP Velimir Simonovic. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 143 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I shall inform the Members of Parliament, members of the Administrative Board, that the meeting of the Administrative Board will be held at the 2nd floor office today at 13.00 hours. I would like to inform you that they have announced the absence of the following MPs: Zaharija Trnavčević, Dragan Marsican, Natasa Micic, Slobodan Tomović, Zivica Predojev, Aleksandar Stefanović, Branislav Pomorijski, Sredoje Mihajlov, Vladan Jovičić, Teodora Vlahović, Anton Biac, Aleksandar Krstic, Bojan Pajtic, Olgica Kircanski. In the morning, Peter Music is absent. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. I find that we have the conditions to continue our work on the agenda. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia (continuation) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonović. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter want a word? He wants to. )
