ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13496	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 150 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for work, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Višnja Nežić, Milos Radulović, Radomir Naumov, Milos Lukić, Predrag Bajčetić, Stanko Kovacevic, Petar Misic, Sredoje Mihajlov, Jon Cisamaš, Kermeci Karolj, Biači Anton, Zaharija Trnavčević and Zoran Boskovic. In the morning, Milorad Stanulov was absent, and in the afternoon Vladan Jovičić, Dragan Vuksic and Vojkan Tomic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE COURT (exist in particular) of the Justice and Administration Committee has tabled an amendment proposing to amend the title above Articles 58 and 58. The proposer has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government has made a positive statement. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 58th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13497	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a provision that speaks of establishing the reason for the end of the court's duties, and the member is talking about the right to object. In fact, Article 58 states that the decision of the Grand Personal Council has the right to object to the General Session within eight days and the General Session is closed to the public. With the amendment, which I have proposed to adopt to the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have foreseen that Article 58, "The Great Personal Council" is replaced by the words "General Session", and the words "General Sessions" are replaced by the words "The Committee for Justice and Management of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". Item 2 is deleted. So, first of all, we think that it is unnecessary for the public to close any body that will decide on the right to object. We don't understand why it's in the text of the law. Who could, even if it were to remain this way, as proposed in the law, influence members of the Great Personal Council, if the Proposer tells us that their independence, their complete independence in work and operation has been ensured. And there won't be any problems in functioning. At the same time, we believe that the Great personal council is formed completely unnecessary as a special body, that it is best to resolve this at the General Session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, a higher instance should be the Committee for the Justice of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with our constitutional obligations, in accordance with our, if you will, and with the positive legal regulations, in accordance with where the rights would be, in any case, incomparably, and better and more protected. In line with what we have already said that, not only in the SRS programme, it is something that should be a reform of our judiciary. That's why I invite you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13498	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 21, against 123 abstentions, there was no vote of 20, a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 59th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13499	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 59 refers to the appeal procedure of the judge against whom the procedure for its resolution was initiated. This 1st position, if the judge had the right to be immediately informed of the reasons for the initiation of the proceedings, to learn about the case and the accompanying documentation, during the proceedings and the report of the rapporteur judge and that I or through the representative provided an explanation and evidence of my claims, we could say that it is okay. But the problem is the 2nd position, which we are asking for in the amendment to change and that the judge against whom the proceedings are being conducted, can give his claims orally, not before the Great personal council, against whose establishment the SRS is, but before the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, it is inappropriate for the legislator to pass through all members of the law a large personalally larger, high council of the judiciary, thereby directly taking away the authority of the highest legislative body. We've talked about this many times today, and we'll probably have to change that by the end of the debate on this set of laws. We know exactly what the jurisdiction of the National Assembly is. Here they are sitting and now very uninterested sitting in the National Assembly session, members of our Republic Justice and Administration Committee, almost a decade each sitting on that committee, listening to the Committee on Justice and Administration working under the law, giving the highest quality proposals for candidates for judges, prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. Now these same people will press the key to vote for that particular committee, which only now under the Constitution has that right, to take away its powers. This puts these judges against whom a possible procedure is being initiated in a position to go before some of your formed DOS body, probably completely instrumentalized, the Greater personally, where they will have to prove the opposite claims of what is in the complaint of their work. That is why we feel it is necessary to accept this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13500	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 25, against 131 abstentions, one did not vote 17, a total of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration submitted the amendment to Article 60. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. A representative of the government has accepted this amendment. The amendment becomes an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to the 60th Amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 24, against 136, a abstentioned one, was not voted 14, a total of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 61st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic and the Committee on Justice and Administration. The proposer has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government's representative made a positive statement about the proposal, and thus the amendment became an integral part of the bill's proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13501	Article 62. The bill is unsustainable from the point of view of the Labour Law. Yesterday, there were a lot of words about what it took to get someone to apply for a judge of any court in our country, and it's really amazing that we have a bill in which, in a literal sense, words are planned to introduce a parallel marriage for the judges. I really don't know how else to interpret it, when we have such a proposal in the bill to lead a personal paper for judges, to have that personal paper deposited in the Ministry of Justice and to run that personal list for each judge. You know exactly what the conditions are so that someone can compete for a judge. He must have passed a judicial exam and work experience in court, and depending on which place the judges compete, from two to eight years old, so we find this unsustainable, because he directly opposes the current Labour Law, which clearly determines what someone must have, what to possess, to compete instead of the judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13502	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 24, against 142 abstentions, there was no vote of 14, a total of 180 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 63. The amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13503	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, in Article 63, which speaks of the termination of office at the request of the judge, we have provided for a different solution to the amendment of this article, in line with what we have spoken in the general debate and what we have already spoken according to certain amendments. So it is said here that a judge who wishes to stop his duty submits a written request to the Great Personal Council, which is immediately forwarded to the National Assembly. We have here, with one technical slip, therefore, because it is written to the High Personal Council, replaced the words "The Great Personal Greater" with the words "The Supreme Court", behind which the point is placed and the further text is not mentioned. Namely, this is in line with our determination that only the president and members of the Supreme Court of Serbia, to exclude the constitutional judiciary, is elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or its highest representatives, to elect all other judges, in accordance with the principle of the division of power, the principle of independence of the courts, the Supreme Court of Serbia. At the same time, in the second position, the "National Assembly" is replaced by the words "the Supreme Court", just for these reasons, and then we also envisioned the addition of the third position, which reads: "The President and the Supreme Court Judges who want the judge's duty to stop submitting written requests to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". It seems to me that this is exactly in line with the ingenuities and prerogatives of the authorities she would have had, that is, that would have had to be available to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and it seems to us to be the best possible solution. Of course, now I know and see the mood in the National Assembly. Except for the fact that few listeners or almost no one listens, nobody's even interested in what we're talking about in this pay phone, but in any case, it seems to me it would be a good idea if this solution were accepted. Then all of this that the government previously agreed with the proposal, so with the Democratic Party of Serbia, would be quite pointless and there would have to be a complete change in the set of laws, which would be a success not only for the opposition, but also for all those who want objective and realistic reforms in the judiciary and that is the only reason why I am not withdrawing the amendment. That's the only reason we're staying on the amendment and I'm asking you to vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13504	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 27, against 139 abstentions, there were no 13 votes, a total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 64. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted the alas of the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13505	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 64 refers to a decision on the termination of the judge's office. Although this provision is in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in the 64th century, and given our complete view of this package of laws, which we consider not to be good and that it will not lead to those objectives as the promoter tried to present it - we wanted through our amendments to express our political and programming position in order to regulate this matter and what we think should be the position of the judiciary and judges within the framework of justice and complete society. That is why I have submitted to Article 64 of the 1st century, which stipulates that the National Assembly has decided to suspend the duties of the President and the Supreme Court of Justice, and that the term of office of the President and the judge of the lower court is to be decided by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia, of course, at the General Session. We remain firm in the view that the legislative branch of the authorities should interfere as little as possible with the judiciary and that it is sufficient for the National Assembly to declare to the President of the Supreme Court and the judges of the Supreme Court, and that it should then be left to that judicial branch of power, or the Supreme Court, to elect the judges of the lower court at the General Session, of course, in the prepared opinion of the general meetings of these courts. It is not burning that at the beginning of this session today, although I have the impression that it is on the agenda of reading the press, not the proposal for a law on judges and the consideration of amendments submitted by the MPs to this law, let us remind everyone that the Government has a negative position under the proposed law and that it has not spoken out on amendments of MPs, which shows the full lack of interest of the Government for the position of justice and the position of judges; and from the daily press, we can all, and especially the judges, conclude the position of the current minister of justice and the government towards the judges in whose hands they are and what their fate is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13506	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 27, against 129 abstentions, no vote was made 24, a total of 180 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. The proposer has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government has accepted the amendment. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 65th Amendment was filed by the People's MP George Mamul. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 134, against 30, a abstentioned one, did not vote 20, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13507	Article 66 speaks of the consequences of the judge's discharge, and in the first position it says that the judge's resolution ends the working relationship, which is fine. However, the second stance says he cannot file an application for election to the court or the public prosecutor's office, nor a application for appointment as deputy public prosecutor or judge for violations, in the future. So, he stopped working, didn't finish his years of training to retire, for whatever reason, let's say at his request, and then he can never work in the judicial authorities again. It's about denying constitutional right to work. I suggested that this article be changed so that it reads: "Decision ends the working relationship. The judge who has been dismissed may re-apply for election to the court, to the public prosecutor's office, to appoint a deputy public prosecutor or judge for violations. "Maybe this second sentence is too high, because if we were to respect the Constitution and the laws, it is clear that a man who is on his own request can once again, based on his qualifications, run for a judicial election. The proposed provisions of Article 66. The law on judges is contrary to the Constitution and the law. This directly deprives the judge who himself has applied for discharge of the constitutional right to work and to apply for an election to another court or prosecution, to appoint a deputy public prosecutor or a judge for violations. So, what if someone, once again, has filed a motion for resolution from the Supreme Court of Serbia, for example, and after a while wants to apply for a contest to elect a district court judge in the interior? Like, he changed his place of residence for family, health reasons, any reason that it was? As this article 64 is formulated here, he will never be able to work in the judiciary again. Once again, please pay attention, it is a matter of denying the constitutional right to the work of every Serbian citizen. I invite you to accept this amendment, no matter what comes from the MPs of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13508	Does anyone else want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I know that many are on the agenda of "The Voice of the Public", "Evening News", "Blic" and some other newspaper, but I would ask only to listen to this because I think it is a good amendment and I would call on the motion to accept this amendment, for the simple reason that it protects the Constitution as the back of a superior, the highest legal act of the country, and correct the illogicalities that could be created in practice by applying this article of the law. In fact, this member of the law that speaks of the consequences of the resolution consists of two attitudes. The first attitude is acceptable. It's: "Delivery stops the working relationship. "But the second attitude is totally unacceptable, for many reasons already spoken of by Gordana Pop-Lazic. I must now quote our minister of education, Gaš Knezevic, who says, "Though those who have graduated from Law School and who are highly educated will be better waiters than those who have not finished anything." But we don't need them to be waiters. It's not our goal as a state, is it? The waiters have another school, of course. We need these people to work in their jobs, to do what they were trained to do, to do what they know. So the question arises what happens if any family tragedy occurs and therefore it is necessary to apply for a resolution, for example in the Supreme Court of Serbia. After a while, he wants to do business in a county or municipal court, or anywhere else in the interior, and then there is never again this right, in accordance with your law, in accordance with this article. That is why we believe that the second position at least is unnecessary or that it can read just as the amendment's proponent Gordana Pop-Lazic predicted, which is that "the judge who has been resolved can re-apply for the court's election, in the public prosecutor's office, for the appointment of a deputy public prosecutor or judge for violations. "This will not only protect the Constitution, but it seems to me that we prohibit restrictions on the right to work, one of the fundamental human rights, something that should be protected by all laws, not by individual particular laws in our country to be destroyed. I hope at least someone was listening. Maybe someone heard from those on the agenda of "The Voice of the Public", "News" and "Blic".
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13510	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 55, against 114, a abstentioned one, was not voted 13, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13511	Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of my amendment is not much different than Mrs. Pop-Lazic's amendment. Indeed, in its second position, Article 66 contains one unacceptable provision - that the dismissed judge cannot file an application for election in a court or public prosecutor's office, nor a application for appointment as deputy public prosecutor or judge for violations - which directly violates the Constitution's guaranteed right. I will remind you, a member of the 35th Republic Constitution in Section 2 guarantees a free choice of profession; each, on equal terms, can be available job and function. Therefore, if one of the judges is resolved, he cannot be disputed with the right to apply or apply for a competition for judges. If he does not meet the conditions for that post, he will not be recognised as a judge's office, but I think this is the attitude, that he is not allowed to apply, really unacceptable, and therefore, unlike my predecessor, colleague, I have suggested that this point 2 be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13512	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13513	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the esteemed MPs, this amendment, as well as the previous by the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, is completely contrary to our concept, where it is predicted that the judge who has been resolved can no longer submit his application to the judicial authorities, so that simply this amendment should not be accepted. If someone once had conditions to resolve, I don't know why they would have had the opportunity to re-commit for those same jobs, if once they were resolved for all those reasons, so I just don't see that there's room for adoption of such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13514	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13515	I think this amendment deserves attention because we are really on the line of contact with some constitutional rights of citizens, primarily the right to work. I am aware of the fact that the circumstance of a judicial function holder being resolved, a very serious circumstance and that the proposer in any case will have to make sure that this person proposes to the National Assembly for the election, but it is written down that its right to submit is limited to the application we really believe that it is in collegiate with some constitutional rights, primarily for the right to work. Therefore, I do not think that there will be any damage to the position of Article 2 of the 66th, or the possibility of those persons to apply for the competition, whether or not they will be elected, depends on the person who proposes and the person who chooses and decides.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13516	Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13517	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like another argument to point out that this amendment can be accepted, why it would be important and it's completely different from the views expressed here by the head of the DSS parliamentary group. We're going to avoid another danger here that could happen to us... I'm sorry to interrupt. President: I don't mind. So, I'd like to say that we can avoid another danger that is now proving to be very real. We can prevent that from happening without providing the Constitution guaranteed the right of citizens to carry it out in their lives. This law cannot, no matter what the motionor's intention is, be contrary to the Constitution as the highest legal act. He can't be in legal traffic, he shouldn't stay, and the danger I'd like to point out is very real and totally objective. Namely, according to Batic's orders, the National Assembly -- and who knows how it's going to happen, maybe even some executive body, some expert body, nothing else in Serbia -- will be safe -- to carry out the resolution of judges who are guilty of being tried by law, who are responsible only because they disagree with DOS's morals, who are responsible for working by regulations, by legal acts that DOS's regime cannot support, which they do not like or who others from the West cannot handle, so it has to say that Serbs are guilty and responsible. And now I'm talking about those honest and moral people, - so I'm talking about those who are, who have judged them as the Constitution has imposed upon them, and it requires them to judge by the Constitution and the law - to say, "You are guilty of judging by the law, and not by the will of the Government of Batic, whether Zoran Djindjic, or Vojislav Kostunica or any other." And that one of those judges can no longer, has no right to work, that he cannot perform his duty. To blame him for condemning Fjore Brovina, a candidate for the President of the Republic of Kosovo, who Kostunica let go of freedom, for being guilty, for being resolved and for not having the right to do his job anymore, I think the days should be accepted and therefore I call on you to accept this amendment at least, if the first one that meant almost the same thing you didn't accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13518	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 86, against 76, abstention four, did not vote 18, a total of 184. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13519	Dear Presidency, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I intervened on Article 67(1). The bill, which has been prescribed that the president of the court be elected among judges for five years and may be re-elected. My intervention was that, firstly, the duration of the term of office was not five, but four years and, secondly, to elect a president among the judges of the court. This, in my opinion, is a more significant intervention than how long the mandate will last. First of all, the idea that if someone is worthy of being a judge can certainly be the first among the equals, that is, to be the President of the Court and that the judges of that court should be the personnel base from which the presidents of the courts will be elected. It's not good that we're making a rule out of exceptions, which is what we did at the last session when over a third of the presidents of the courts were elected outside the judge's system. This way, I find an exception and an incorrect phenomenon, first of all, towards the holders of the judicial functions in the courts, is being overcome, because in this way it expresses mistrust, spread and builds into the law, and therefore I think that this solution is better. However, following the longer debate we had on the Justice Committee, there were arguments against, and respecting the fact that this proposal did not even go to the Justice Committee, I will withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13520	I find that MP Zoran D. Nikolic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 67. The Committee on Justice and Administration submitted to Article 68 of the amendment. The proposer accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Prime Minister accepted the amendment and thus became an integral part of the bill. Member of the 69th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13521	So, by amendment, I intervened in the second position of Article 69, which speaks of the situation at the end of the office of the President of the Court. I asked to erase the position in which it is said that when the judge of the senior court, elected president of the lower court, ceases his duties as president, he has the right to continue the duties of the judge in the higher court. I think the promoter adopted an amendment in the earlier part of the text, so this possibility is otherwise considered almost incredible, not only in a rare and completely unnecessary way, and in practice it would be absolutely impossible for such a thing to happen. That is why I believe that this amendment should be accepted. Besides, what would it look like and what would it look like if we had the judges of the higher court that you were going to choose as president of the lower court, I think that performing such two functions is incompatible and contrary to the possibility that he would perform them in a fair way. That's why I think the whole other attitude needs to be deleted, and that's why the promoter doesn't lose anything, except, I think, if you want to illustrate and comply with those amendments and those standards that have already been adopted at the assembly session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13522	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, please just before the vote, we just had one vote, like it or not the outcome of that vote, the result was very narrow and I ask you to establish the quorum, because there are cards that have been drawn in, and in that situation the result of the vote can be... I don't doubt the quorum, but I want to determine the quorum, which no doubt exists, but I want the cards to remain unidentified. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am voting on the amendment of Alexander Vukic to article 69. I ask the MPs to vote. For 48, against 104 abstention, did not vote 6, a total of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic has tabled an amendment proposing that Articles 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78 and 79 be deleted. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13523	Of course, this is treated as one amendment, I imagined it. I want to explain to you one day why I am against such a solution that determines the composition of the council, that is, the right of the court to have judges. I don't think such imaginary judges should be chosen by jurors. They're not jury judges, they're servants who have obligations and have no protection. You know, judge jurors are now proposed by the minister of justice and appointed by the High Council of Justice. What the Minister of Justice is going to propose to the judges, that hasn't happened yet, I remind you of Article 79, which says - jury judges are properly subject to the provisions on judges. Why would we now allow the minister of justice to propose judges to jurors when it is a branch of government that is completely independent of the minister of justice? Next, he says the jury must have 26 years of life. Why can't it be 25, why can't it be 27, what this is now, whether this is new learning, religious or Darwin theory, when a man becomes mature to decide when he can be held accountable, when he can decide on someone else's guilt. With 26 years of life? I haven't read this yet. Furthermore, he says -- that the minister is getting the opinion of a court for which the judge is called a juror. How is the opinion of the municipal court obtained? Is that the opinion of the President of the Municipal Court? This should all be written in law because when you get an opinion signed by the president and certified by the press, it's the opinion of the court for you. Then say, the opinion of the President of the Court, because the court's opinion is not the opinion of the President of the Court. The procedure for the resolution and the decision to dismiss the jury judge, which is a judge, as said in Article 79, is led by the High Council of Justice. You've provided the judge with the right to a reward, with the right to lost earnings, with the right to meet the costs he has as a jury judge, and now you have some right to the prize. Who's going to reward the jury? Is he the one who gets slow? Why do you even put in such provisions for people we call judges? Why didn't you call them jurors, then I'd accept this way of naming, rewarding and whatever you want. But if he's a judge, even if he's a juror, he's a judge and he's subject to completely different provisions. He has to be independent. No one can influence him, and he has a conscience to decide according to the law. True, he doesn't have that much responsibility as a judge, but if he meets the conditions for a judge, if the judge is a jury lawyer with two years of employment, then he has a responsibility for the decisions he's involved in. It's all in your bill. I am sorry that by the will of the congregation services, we are the only ones who were present in the parliamentary group to defend these amendments. I am sorry that not all of our MPs, who participated in this, can go out for a pay phone, especially Justice Minister Petar Jojic, with whom I have worked closely on amendments to these bill proposals. I'm convinced you want to put the jury under the control of the jury. This is obvious when all eight members of the law are given a detailed look and determine what it will look like in the future. You are now saying that it is appointed for five years, but it is resolved and appointed by the High Council of Justice - an institution that is introduced into our judicial system and it is totally unconstitutional. Chuck, I think the level of the prize is determined by the High Justice Council, but I need to check it out. Yes, the conditions and the amount of compensation and rewards are prescribed by the High Council of Justice. Where's your soul? Who writes this to you, from which language you have translated these laws or is indeed the law proposed by JUL. It's not from Swahili translated, dear woman's web, you've got a closer look at who's going to write your laws, and you're not going that far? I think it would be a good idea for the National Assembly to adopt this amendment and for the judges to be independent and to do their job in accordance with the oath they're about to make. I haven't made amendments to that oath, and you seem to be free to write amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13524	Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13525	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we think it is really necessary to get rid of the text of the bill as a whole to Chapter VII because it is already inconsistencies and inconsistencies compared to the previous part of the law, especially in accordance with the amendments that have already been adopted, and I will even list something that may seem small to you, and it has been accepted in the previous part of the session. It is about the oath, how and how the jury judge will swear an oath before the President of the court for which he was appointed -- it is still predicted that man swears to Almighty God. We don't mind that, but you've had it against that, so there will be different oaths for one judge and judges of jurors who have the same weight when they vote in the council. I must say that we have already stood out here as our proposal, which is what the SRS parliamentary group stands for, which is the professionalization of the judiciary. In fact, there are some criteria here, for us quite vaguely, especially when it comes to what we said in the earlier part of this same law and in the previous law that we passed, the Law on Court Order. So here in the first position of Article 72. (where the terms of the jury judges are spoken) it is said that it takes 26 years to live and that it is worthy of the duties of the jury judge. It is precisely in the reasoning of the legislator that the term "worthy" is introduced as an incomparably more professional and narrower than the one that should signify the term "respect" that there is a difference. Then I criticized that term, I said it should not be put in such a way, precisely because of the fact that it is used here, in this law, therefore, in this part of the law that speaks of jury judges, because, if you talk about it, about jury judges, a jury judge can be any man with four grades of elementary school, as well as a doctor of science, and a Kalemar, and a basketball player, and a carpenter, anyone can be. Then I don't understand how these criteria will be specified, how these criteria will apply to them. It seems to me that this is a significant inconsistencies in relation to the very text of the reasoning of the law offered by the proposer, which I seem to have quoted here yesterday. What represents the biggest problem here, it is a growing role of the minister of justice, or the minister of justice, call it whatever you want -- he therefore has a multiple role in proposing jury judges. We've already told you the role of the jury judge in the performance of their duties. One question is now being asked -- the minister of justice proposes to the High Judicial Council to appoint a particular jury judge. The High Justice Council appoints him. So it all goes without the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, without the competent Committee on Justice and Administration, and appointed by the High Council of Justice, whose member is also a member of the justice minister, or minister of justice. So, however you turn, and whoever proposes and whoever directly chooses it, they're the same. It's a bit of an expansion when it comes to selecting, so that's what the High Council of Justice does, but the same man participates in proposing and selecting jury judges. Does this mean that we will have a judiciary completely limited, limited by will or will, however you wish, by the executive authorities, or by the competent minister and the competent ministry. I think and it seems to me that it's something we shouldn't accept in any way. Another one-nonsens - in the second position of Article 73, it is said: "Before proposing, the minister obtains the opinion of the court for which the judge is called a juror". Now again, the same ones, proposed by the High Council of Justice with "take or leave" to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A vicious circle was created, in which the minister of justice, the executive power, can in principle do whatever he wants. It doesn't matter who that minister of justice is. Now we have one, tomorrow we'll have another, but he's got huge powers in his hands, anti-constitutional, illegal powers, powers that will lead to the full subjugation of the judiciary in our judicial system, powers that will lead to us being tried solely by political order, political will, by moral likeness, and in no case by legal knowledge, by the Constitution and by law. After all, we see how today's regime is dealt with with by those who are the biggest objectors of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13526	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 28, v. 129, abstention two, no vote 15, a total of 174. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Tomic submitted the amendment to Article 73. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13527	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, when discussing the role of jury judges, I must say that, by all regulations, they are absolutely equal in performing their duties with judges in all areas. In this proposal, however, their role is minimised. My wish and the SPS parliamentary groups is that this amendment just balances the role of the jury judge in the following way - although the proposal says that the jury judge, appoints the High Council of Justice, on a proposal from the minister responsible for the judiciary, we believe that the jury is elected by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the High Council of Justice. In the second position -- before the proposal, the High Council of Justice, rather than the minister, is obtaining the opinion of the court for which the jury is called. Although years of practice in court, besides what the judiciary is doing, and not what the current minister is saying, there are many things that are characteristics and the court, and the judge of the jury. There are judges who have been jurors for 15, 20 years. Today, it is very difficult to find a man who is willing to be a jury judge, to come to court every day, to participate in the work of the court, and to understand the legal procedure, no matter what the profession. There are also litigators, people who are tried and always have 10-15 lawsuits, or 20 lawsuits, each court in Serbia has its own litigators. These are still some of the characteristics of the judiciary, except for the way we are now listening, these days, to give ideological and political characteristics to judges and courts. That's why I think this amendment makes absolutely sense, regardless of what the Legislative Committee said was legally possible. Of course it's legally possible, but we think it's also in line with the bill's proposal, we think it makes a lot of sense, and we also think that we can't reduce the role of a jury judge in this way, for a simple reason when in a higher vote the jury judge is equal to the president's voice. Therefore, the full logic is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia chooses a jury judge. Maybe it's a big deal, but judges don't choose each day, they choose for a long time. We think that in this way, evening, we would absolutely equalize the importance of a jury judge with a judge, or president of a council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13528	Anybody else answer for a word? He's got a word, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13529	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group will not vote for this amendment, for the simple reason this is spoken in a similar manner as in the proposed text of the law, except that the direct proposal is laid down by the minister in charge of the judiciary, but the High Council of Justice is authorised, where a member of the minister is responsible for the judiciary and administration. It seems to us that no fundamental difference is achieved, especially when it is required to obtain opinions and information from the competent court, which also de facto appoints the High Council of Justice, because the High Judicial Council of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia delivers a list of names that you can accept or refuse. If you refuse, we haven't done anything, because they can still file the exact same list and we can't do anything again. We can say no again, but one minute we have to accept it, because we're not gonna let the judiciary not work at all and it's not working. So we believe that this is not about the fundamental changes to the proposed text, that an institute that is anti-constitutional is accepted and that is very bad for our judiciary, which is the High Council of Justice, through which in fact the greatest political appearance in our judicial system, through which moral-political similarity is introduced into our judiciary. That is why the SRS parliamentary group will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13530	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 36, against 117 abstentions, the vote was not 17, a total of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 74th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, George Mamul. The Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment, with the words "honor" being added to the word "own" as MP George Mamula, at yesterday's session, accepted when deciding on the same amendment to Article 48. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 126, against 28, the two abstentions, were not voted by 22, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 81st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13531	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are approaching the debate in particular of the Law on Judges proposed by Ambassador Dejan Michael. I want to finally call you once again not to vote in favour of this bill, at least you who have or if you have any sense left, this is the proposal for a law on judges, because the SRS considers, and I think most of those citizens who will seek judicial protection (and what is their constitutional right), that judicial independence should be the basis of an independent democratic system, an independent judiciary. It must not be left to the mercy or mercies of the DOS government, and especially not to Prime Minister Vladna Batic, who we know has been harassing municipal and district courts around Serbia these days, making lists of unsuitable. His reasons for leaving these people out of work are mainly because they were judged by the laws that were in force at the time when they performed their judicial duties. This amendment to Article 81 is in line with the position that we have kept, on the subject of the previous law, and we will bring it to the end of the debate on the set of proposed laws, as regards the establishment of special courts. There were words about why Serbia's administrative court, why the appeal court. We believe that the Court of Appeal is not necessary at all in a situation where what that court is doing, which, as well as for its establishment, will require enormous budgets, is already being done by the Serbian Supreme Court. If the newly established Serbian Court of Appeal decides to appeal to the district court, then the future role of the Supreme Court of Serbia is just to take care of the application of the law. That's really pointless. Here we heard from the promoters on several occasions that he himself advocated the strict division of power into legislative, executive and judicial, and as he said that this division would be strictly implemented in the context of the creation of such packages, and I would say perhaps no modified JUL package of the draft law on justice. And in order for the principle to be shared by the authorities to be implemented to the end, Serbia's administrative court needs to be formed, among other things; this raises the question why, when in administrative disputes can be tried by specialised departments formed within regular courts. And finally, once again, to point out that it is a real and too serious thing to be dealt with by individuals who are not professional and competent enough, in the sense that they are building and proposing legal projects, which don't even agree with many MPs or most of them in a coalition that calls themselves DOS. But because of some peace in the house (I would rather say there is no peace at all, because the constant tension, the friction, the anxiety, the DOS house produces a lot of problems in our country), in the end, it comes to the conclusion that some of the coalition partners, who claimed until yesterday, and through their representative in the government of Joseph Kasa, said that these laws are not good at all, that the laws agree with the government's proposal in 80%. Then poor Batic must come here and confirm the same thing. In fact, we all know that some rotten compromises are being achieved, that political trade is being made. It will all be at the expense of our judicial system, the citizens of Serbia, and that is why I urge you to vote against in particular on the Law on Judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13532	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 26, against 129 abstentions, there was no vote of 23, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Radulovic submitted to the 81st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The promoter is in agreement. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 135, against 18, the abstention of four, was not voted 25, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Djura Lazic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 81 be added after article 81. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 31, against 103 abstentions, there were no 45 votes, a total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Tomic has tabled an amendment proposing that the title in front of article 82 and article 82 be deleted. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13533	Dear gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member is very difficult to understand at all. It is the last one, but it's very difficult to understand in the title, as well as in the whole. Apparently, this is where the motionor wanted to determine the salary of the Court of Appeals, so he identified and put in the same basket as the district judge and the Court of Appeals. Now the district courts are doing future judges of the Court of Appeals, and it's probably going to be when their work begins, and at this point in time, it doesn't give a precise conclusion, or inaccurately put into the same basket and each other, obviously it doesn't make much sense. For these reasons, this amendment, first of all, should be deleted in general and in the title.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13534	Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 32, against 106, the two abstentions, did not vote 41, a total of 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed the review of the Bill's proposal in particular and the amendment decision, does the Proposer want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. I'm putting the draft law on judges in general. For 132 against 26, the abstentioned was not voted 23, a total of 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal for a law on judges. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the High Council of Justice (specificities) You have received a bill submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandar Vukic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran D. Nikolic and Dragan Todorovic, as well as amendments submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration. You have received notice from MP Natasa Jovanovic to withdraw the amendment to Article 20. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of the bill. Since the National Assembly, after a joint principled search has been concluded, under which the proposal for a Law on the High Council of Justice has also been discussed, has adopted the proposal for this law in principle, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted the alas of the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13535	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, regardless of the position of the Serbian Radical Party, expressed through amendments to all five laws, that the High Council of Justice should not be introduced, is not accepted by the majority in the National Assembly, regardless of how many judges, ministers or lawyers stand out to lead human rights policy in the judiciary from now on, our conscience tells us to warn you that you are doing something that is not compatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and is not compatible with the principle that the judiciary is independent of other types of government to the extent that the authorities are one of the other independent. So, more or less independent. We, as the legislative authority, should be the most independent, and in fact we depend most on the executive authority, sometimes on the judicial branch of the government, to which the executive branch of government is affected. It is incomprehensible that - I must say that again, although I have already mentioned this in the Law on the Law of Courts and the Law on Judges - you are humiliating the National Assembly and depriving it of the right to propose, through its committee, decisions to be made by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest body of the legislative authority, has itself set up its own committees to prepare proposals for work, except for proposals for members of the Constitutional Court, which we receive from the President of the Republic, all other proposals are prepared by the competent committees in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You are now allowing that there is no longer a Justice and Administration Committee. The way it works and shouldn't exist, the way it breaks the law, by writing amendments in the course of the session. But the president of the board is never here. He is now raising the price, likely, of phone impulses and is rewarded for it, to trample his morale, his knowledge, his conscience, and to allow here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to decide beyond the law and the Constitution. I hope you still think we're the highest legislative authority in the country and you won't let us handle this on the basis of a proposal from the High Council of Justice. To be asked - and what is the high counsel of the judiciary, which is not the advice of the judiciary, because we have a low council of justice, do we have a little advice from the judiciary, why the high advice of the judiciary? What's with the name? What language is it translated from? Were these, perhaps, the new tasks that the UN tribunal was doing here yesterday at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and yesterday were armed by those who never carried guns. The UN tribunal is also serving us in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which you individuals know very well, and you individuals do not know very well, and you will never know what is behind your back. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we don't need the High Council of Justice. It's an attack on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's a meddling in her work, in her constitution of a certain jurisdiction. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has its own committee to deal with all the affairs listed in Article 2 of this Law, and there are no other options. You don't have to work against the Constitution and against the law, no matter what your motives are. You were right when you rejected this bill. He's absolutely incompatible with the Constitution and with the laws. You won't be right if you vote for this law. Since you're all out of the O.R., can I have the right, like the one that the president of the National Assembly took, to ask us to establish a quorum, so that the debate takes place in front of a qualified majority?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13536	You're absolutely right. Please determine the quorum. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. I'm taking a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please, for the remainder of the session, let's determine the quorum. Ladies and gentlemen, I realize we don't have a quorum. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13538	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we ask that we determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We continue the debate in detail on the draft law on the High Council of Justice. Mr Tomislav Nikolic explained the amendment to Article 1. Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13539	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, is above all important, and that is what Mr Nikolic's amendment refers to, to erase "the name of the deputy public prosecutor". That's what we wanted with this bill of law, just to make it the High Council of Justice who will appoint deputy public prosecutors. We believe that this is the way that a good functioning of the public prosecutor's office can be ensured at all and that there is no need for them to have continuity, as envisaged, as individual or as it has been so far, especially since their term of office takes eight years and that is a mandate that guarantees security in the performance of their functions. Eight years is not a short period, and that is why we do not feel that there is a need for the continuity of public prosecutors. That was also the case on the Justice and Administration Committee itself. The position of the expert public and parties, which initially supported this bill, went towards re-election of deputy public prosecutors, since their post, in any case, cannot be equated with the role of public prosecutor. We went towards simply maintaining the principle of re-election, because we believe it will guarantee a more efficient and responsible performance of this very significant function, which is the deputy public prosecutor. If there's a need, we'll explain it further.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13540	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? (No). I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 18, against 128, there were no abstentions, no vote 11, a total of 157. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13541	It's not a dispute, it may give up on this amendment, but I don't think it's a good idea because of the further course of the debate and what's waiting for us when we decide on the Prosecutor's Law. In fact, here's what it's all about, so that MPs and the public can be more clear. The first member, to whom I have declared the amendment, reads: "The High Council of Justice is being established". A second position: "He proposes to the National Assembly the presidents of the courts, judges and public prosecutors, appointed judges as jurors and deputy public prosecutors and exercised other jurisdictional powers under a certain law. "So, since we as a parliamentary group have proposed that judges be elected, that solution has not been passed, but also in the Law on Public Prosecutors, we have proposed that deputies and public prosecutors be elected by the National Assembly, regardless of the limitation of the mandate, which is likely to remain, and the Committee has accepted it. So there is a high probability that deputy public prosecutors are elected by the Assembly for eight years, at least that solution is now accepted by the majority of the Justice Committee. If that solution remains, and we reject this amendment, we pass the law, and there remains a formula as it is in the bill, then we will have a double solution. In the Prosecution Act, under the amendment, the Assembly will elect deputy public prosecutors, and if the position of Article 1(2) remains, we will have a high council to appoint deputy public prosecutors. That is why I am making a proposal and it is not a problem for me to give up the amendment, I do not want to create any dilemma, but to help make solutions consistent, to stop the decision on this amendment, so that if the Assembly in the Public Prosecutor's Law defines a solution for the deputy public prosecutors to be elected by the National Assembly, this amendment of the Committee can also be amended, or through the amendment of the Committee, a solution that will be in accordance with both regulations. So it's not a problem whether or not the amendment will be accepted, but we can find ourselves as a congregation in trouble, to get two laws out of the same session that solve the same matter in a different way. I suggest that this amendment is now not to be declared, to go simply through it, and that, if the solution is adopted, how most now have the will to adopt, in the case of deputy public prosecutors to be elected by the Assembly, then to adopt this amendment afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13542	The word has been proposed by the People's MP, Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13543	First, we can't stop now, and if we pass the law then we can't go back. We'd have to wait for the law to be passed, so we could adopt it after that law, which we can't do. This is just the law on the agenda. We would have to change the established agenda, which, you will admit, is impossible and is not in Parliament's practice. Obviously, that way we won't be able to work, at least it's my opinion, maybe the Assembly will be able to make a statement about it. If we are talking about deputy prosecutors and everything else, our Constitution of Serbia does not prescribe, it says that the deputy public prosecutors do not have to be, have no continuity, and the urgency of the Constitution is that only public prosecutors are permanent and that the deputies are not permanent and that they are not elected to those places all the time. Simply, it would have made one intensities that existed, and the legislator wouldn't have missed it if the deputy public prosecutors were permanent, if he wanted them to be permanent, but the intention was just to make sure that the deputy public prosecutors weren't permanent. First of all, because the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor have the same procedural rights when they act by law, but they don't have the same status quo and that's what makes them different. The deputy is changing the prosecutor in the process. So, he's got all the rights, but he doesn't have rights status, and that's why they don't have to be even. If there is a need, when the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office was adopted, we can also discuss it, but the debate we had on the Committee went in the direction that they should be re-elected, elected every eight years, because it is considered (and the expert public according to the statistics it has) in order to ensure more effective treatment in the proceedings itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13544	Right on line, MP Zoran D. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13545	I thought some of the colleagues on the board understood the dilemma I was taking. I did not question the fact that the deputy public prosecutors would be re-election or not, that question will be discussed by the Assembly when it decides on amendments, but only by the fact that the Committee of Justice has accepted amendments that support those amendments that have been proposed by the National Assembly. Whether to choose them every eight years or to be permanent, the congregation will decide again. It's about this fact, not about continuity, but about being chosen by the National Assembly. That solution will be in collegiate with the position of Article 1(2). The law on the High Council of Justice, if we say so now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13546	Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I am putting the amendments submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic to the vote. For 47, against 104 abstentions, six did not vote 11, a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Vukic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13547	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that Article 2 be deleted. The proposal for a law on the High Council of Justice, for the simple reason why we seem to have so far pointed to a number of illogicalities and inconsistencies of the bill's proposal. We have opposed the principle of debate, hence the general debate on the establishment and establishment of such a judicial body; in particular, the unacceptable reasoning of the legislator who tells the MPs in writing that the National Assembly, through its Committee on Justice and Administration, does not have the necessary knowledge and does not have time to examine an expert candidate for judicial duty or the duty of a public prosecutor. Since I'm not going to go out on an amendment to Article 3, which is also required to delete that member, I'm going to run an analysis of what members of the High Council of Justice are, what is it that we can get, and what is it that we can lose. Namely, the High Council of Justice consists of five permanent members and six calling members. Five permanent members include the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, who, for a miracle to be greater, has no right under the provisions of the previous law to be a member of the grand personal council, a republican public prosecutor, a justice minister and two members elected by the National Assembly. What's this all about? So we're going to have another significant part of those people who are directly elected by the National Assembly, by having, unlike the previous period, an incomparably greater influence of the executive authorities than the legislation. This is something we find inadmissible, something we find unnecessary, because the expertise and knowledge of individual candidates by the executive authority will always be embodies with the political resemblance of individual candidates. It's from time to time. The essence of the division of power is not that one authority should be without any authority in relation to any other authority, but rather that the power-sharing of the executive authority is the constraint, and we are giving these incomparably wider prerogative powers to executive authorities. I think it's something the National Assembly shouldn't accept. It is our view that we have a Committee on Justice and Administration that should do its job, otherwise I don't know what would be the subject of the work, what would be the obligation of the Justice and Administration Committee, which would be discussed there if there were no such responsibilities as have been foreseen so far. So, we in the SRS believe that this is not only a bad bill, but we are trying to convince you in every way (for those who are not more interesting newspapers; but I see a "witness" list, but it is still a change of the best compared to "Glass", "Blic", "News" and so on) that it would be good if the National Assembly in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia were to carry out its duties and perform its tasks. If you think we're going to get something in reform, that we're going to get something more democratic or that we're going to get something more just in the trial, or in the performance of any judicial function in this way, I don't think we're going to get anything more democratic or that we're going to get something more fair in the trial, or in the performance of any judicial function like this, I don't think we're going to, and this seems to be the right way of introducing a moral-political resemblance for all those who perform a judicial function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13548	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? If not, I'll put him to the vote. For 20, against 138, there were no abstentions, no 14 votes, a total of 172. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop - Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13549	Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I want to draw attention to is that we have already passed by the parliamentary majority the Law on Judges, in which the High Council of Justice has been incorporated as a special institution with powers which are now regulated by this law. Now I'm asking a theoretical question - what would happen if this law didn't happen? We went in reverse, and this remark primarily refers to the speaker and the president of the Assembly who had to take care of it when setting the agenda and we should first consider this law, then the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutors. But he's probably also the president, and the promoter, absolutely convinced that the parliamentary majority will pass this law, so it doesn't matter what order we go. I assume that on the basis of our presentations during the principle debate, you have realised that we SRS MPs are against the establishment of the High Council of Justice and all our amendments are such that they do not correct the text but, by respecting the Rules of Procedure, require that each of these members of the proposed law be deleted. My amendment refers to Article 3 whose erasure I seek, which says: "The permanent members of the High Council of Justice are the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, the republican public prosecutor and the minister responsible for the judiciary (all by duty) and two other members elected by the National Assembly. "First of all, it is inappropriate for the minister of justice to be a member of such a High Council of Justice who will undoubtedly be established by this law. Item 2: "The National Assembly elects one member with two lists of three candidates who separately propose the Supreme Court and the Republic Public Prosecutor. "This National Assembly humiliates itself and puts itself into a subordinate role compared to one of these organs. We really shouldn't, and here we are, doing this today, but for the third time, by adopting one law at a time regarding justice, that the National Assembly should transfer its jurisdiction to some newly established authorities. In the third position, it is said that the election may be proposed, i.e. that the election may be offered by prominent lawyers, who do not have to be judges, public prosecutors or deputy public prosecutor. In an explanation, however, this law, for reasons of law-making, says the National Assembly is made up of political figures, which do not have the necessary knowledge and time to examine the expertise of the claimant on the judicial duty and on the duty of the public prosecutor. The same is true of the Assembly's Committee on Justice, which is not, in principle, valid, because in every assembly of 250 MPs, there must be at least 30 graduates with a passed judicial exam and a university professor, who could be very professional in doing their job, not getting into it -- whether we have competent people in the Justice Committee in this conference. I would not be surprised if one of these prominent legal experts in the High Council of Justice were Dragore Hiber, and that, as such, he would be, with his references, similar to that of the High Council of Justice, but at the same time not competent enough to, as an MP, be the chairman of the Committee and meet his duty properly. That is why I am asking for the removal of Article 3 and, of course, in the follow-up debate on the other members I have submitted to the amendments, I will tell you the rest of the reasons for that. And in this article above all, what made me ask for this member to be deleted is that the minister responsible for the judiciary should not be part of such a council for the judiciary and the National Assembly cannot be in a subordinate position to this newly established body.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13550	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 23, against 141 abstentions, there was no vote 10, a total of 174. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The proposer has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government accepted the amendment, thus becoming an integral part of the bill. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13551	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in principle debate and debate on the previous two draft laws, you heard the SRS' position - that we are opposed to the establishment and establishment of the High Council of Justice, which, according to the bill, will have that possibility in the future, which is taken away at the same time by the Committee on Justice and the Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and thus also by MPs in the National Assembly, to propose judges, public prosecutors and to appoint deputy public prosecutors. It is an interesting explanation of the promoter, in which he says it will be a special judicial body, an expert nature, a republican rank. The question arises - who are the people, under the bill of law, who will be members of the High Council of Justice? Indeed, it is relatively how competent he is in the area of the right to decide something. However, if there is only one fact in mind, that the members of the High Council of Justice are the justice ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, then we have a situation where the executive authority is directly involved in the proposal and hence also in the choice of judges. The National Assembly is put in a position to accept or not accept a list that comes from the High Council of Justice. The question then arises -- as long as this could go in some process of proposing candidates for the holders of judicial and public prosecutorial functions in a situation where, for example, the assembly majority decided not to accept such a proposal by the High Council of Justice. On the other hand, a decision on the position of public prosecutors and their deputies has also been placed in the jurisdiction of the High Council of Justice, while the Supreme Court of Serbia decides on this. Since the Public Prosecutor's Office is an independent state body, but not independent, there is no basis for this body, which is not independent of the executive and the legislative authority, to be decided by the public prosecutor's office holders and their deputies. The denial of the current Constitution and of what the Committee on Justice and Administration has under the Constitution is also potential in the light of the proposal for this law. The promoter says that in the Committee on Justice and Administration, there are people who are members of political parties, and therefore they are biased in proposing candidates for judges. It is therefore necessary that this, allegedly expertly, body, which I say again will not be independent, but directly mixed by the executive authority, proposes candidates for judges, public prosecutors and appoints deputy public prosecutors. In addition, the proposer calls for the existing Constitution not to be defined until the end, so that it proposes such a law and that the High Council of Justice be established. No, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Constitution is also defined, but one other question is asked -- why do people, who should normally come from legal professions, graduate lawyers, those who practice law, who sit on the Committee on Justice and Administration, do according to the findings of their political parties in municipalities and cities from which they are being staffed, and thus make choices of the like, and the unsuitable are fired from work, as we have the case these days, or in the announcement of still the current minister of justice. Therefore, the establishment of this alleged expert body is not in any way in the service of establishing an independent judiciary in our country, but in direct interference with the executive authority, which we have already had the case. We had a case of direct interference with the executive authority in selecting judges in the former leftist regime. He's moved on and now, with you dommaniacs. Therefore, we suggest that you reject this bill through the amendments we have made to all 20 members of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13552	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13553	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope only, since I didn't hear it myself, while I was in the O.R., but then I was informed that the president tried to offend me. He can't insult me, not because I have no cheek, but because he doesn't have it, and I won't even pay attention to what he says. I'm talking about the afternoon part of the session, and what you can read in the stenographic notes, so you'll see. As for Article 4, why did I come out to explain why I went out to try to point out to the MPs so it wouldn't be good even for a member like this to stay. Perhaps he would not prevent the adoption of the whole law, such as the abolition, or erasure of individual members. This article should be deleted because it in one way confirms the correctness of the political programme and what the SRS stands for that we have talked about here, and which has not been consistently implemented in the bill itself. Namely, when we said that the best solution would be that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the parent board, so the competent Committee on Justice and Administration, influences the election of the president and judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia, and that independence is ensured by the fact that Serbia's Supreme Court will elect other judges, then we were told that such a solution would be impossible. Now, in the bill of law, look at what's proposed. Says six members of the High Council of Justice, who should not only be expert, but as an organisational body to decide everything. It not only appoints judges jurors, deputy public prosecutors, it de facto appoints all judges. What we have the right to say, we can put in some sort of suspension veto. After a while, we are put before a final act, and we must accept what the High Council of Justice gives us. Now we have most of those here who are Supreme Court judges, who are going to participate, but that's why it's no longer done the way it was normal to do it, through the Supreme Court judges, but it's going to the High Council of Justice. I think it's so clear that anyone can understand, even one who has no elementary knowledge of law. That's why it's unclear to me why and why this body was formed in this way. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the position of the 2nd same member, which says that of the two members of the public prosecutor, one is elected by the minister in charge of the judiciary and another by a republican public prosecutor. If you consider that by one of the laws in this set, from this law package, there is the possibility and jurisdiction of the justice minister, the justice minister, however you wish, to appoint the perpetrator of the duties of the republican public prosecutor, then you can only see how proportionately greater the influence of the executive authorities is than it would be in this case. So what we're offering is pure Serbian Supreme Court in the choice of judges, much better, much simpler and completely independent than any other authority. What's being offered here is some strange, unseen mix of influence by executive authorities, influencing legislative authorities, influencing some mixed bodies, specialized, which someone calls expert, someone organisational. I can also call them bodies for political resemblance, it doesn't matter what you call them. But a truly illogical solution. That's what I think shouldn't stay here at all. You know, if we already have this idea, it's better to have it consequently and fully implemented, so let the Supreme Court of Serbia decide, appoint and appoint all judges of the lower courts, and then we decide only the judges of the Supreme Court. This has been consequently implemented. Thus, from the sky exercised by the power of the executive authority - it is contrary to the Constitution, it is contrary to other legal acts, so it seems to me that something that is inaccessible, not only with existing positive-legal legislation, but also with what the promoter has proposed to us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13554	Mr. Michael, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13555	I usually don't answer when it comes to amendments, because I think everyone has the right to comment on the bill, and it's up to the National Assembly to determine according to that remark and to that change, which can be entered or cannot be entered. We've talked here today about various solutions and the past few days. A key thing that we have to stick to, whether someone likes it or not, whether someone did it or not, but we have to respect the Constitution. Whether he's nakarad or not, we have to respect him. The judges are elected by the Assembly. The idea was mentioned that the Supreme Court could be the one to appoint judges. It's simply not in accordance with the Constitution. Perhaps in some perspective, if the Constitution changes the principle that judges are not elected by the Assembly, but chosen by the Supreme Court, then that solution would be possible. At this point this solution is absolutely not in accordance with the Constitution and we simply cannot accept it. Just like we can't accept to delete this member. The High Council of Justice, in relation to 7:4 for judges, is the one proposing judges to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This speaks enough of the influence of the National Assembly on the choice of judges, and especially if it is known that judges of the National Assembly chooses, that it cannot put a new proposal, but can be determined for or against the existing proposal of the High Council of Justice, which can then make a new proposal. Just him and no one else. This speaks enough of the potential for the influence of the National Assembly, the influence of politics and the legislative authorities on the choice of judges. After almost no concept of the choice of judges we had in Serbia - the Committee on Justice and Administration, the Assembly Committee, was the one who proposed judges - we come to a solution in which judges, compared to 7-4 of them all, have a majority. I am talking about the amendments being adopted and that the Bar Association appoints a member of the High Council of Justice when discussing the choice of judges. When the election of prosecutors is discussed, an amendment has been adopted to appoint both members of the High Council of Justice as a republican public prosecutor. It says that the minister, or executive authority, has no influence whatsoever. These proposals go only in the direction of independence when proposing the selection of these functions. It speaks of our intention to give up one piece of power in favour of the profession, talking about our intention that we do not need a subjugated judiciary, which will be judged by political or any other influence. We need a judiciary that will judge and protect the interests of citizens and individuals. We count that we are all individuals, we were not in the congregation, and we need a judiciary that will be able to protect us at all times, no matter what their name is and where they sit. Just because we're making a proposal like this means within the limits of an existing constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13556	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 21, against 156, there were no abstentions, no 5 votes, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The proposer has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government has accepted the amendment. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Dragan Todorovic submitted the amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a Law on Judges, but this amendment essentially refers to Article 4. Proposal for a law on the High Council of Justice. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13557	Ladies and gentlemen, my amendment technically referred to the proposal for a law on judges, and in essence to the proposal for a law on the High Council of Justice, and I would not particularly like to explain the importance of the composition of the High Council of Justice, and particularly the division of the invitation and permanent members of that same council. The draft law on the High Council of Justice states in recital 2 that of the two members of the public prosecutor's office, the minister responsible for the judiciary and the other member of the republic's public prosecutor. This is another eclatant example - given that, on the duty of the minister of justice, one of the three permanent members of the High Council of Justice, he would thus be given the opportunity to appoint another member and I think that the powers of the justice minister would be too great in this way. That is why I have submitted an amendment determining that two members of the public prosecutor are elected by a republican public prosecutor, not just one. I think this amendment is in line with the principles of the division of power. I am pleased that the Committee has supported this amendment of mine and I think it will contribute to making the Law on the High Council of Justice much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13558	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 134, against 26, with five abstentions, 14 did not vote, a total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that you have not been this zealous and in the amendments to Article 1(2) that had to be adopted, because in this way we have demoted the deputy public prosecutors, so those who call for the respect of the Constitution, whether we like it or not, should read the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia well and see that in terms of rights and responsibilities, the republican public prosecutor and public prosecutors do not differ at all from the deputy public prosecutors. If you are looking at the very process that is under way, then it is quite clear to you that even the deputy public prosecutor has much greater responsibilities, greater tasks, and let it be that those who run the processes no longer choose and resolve the Assembly, but that they are chosen and resolved by an auxiliary authority. Let it remain your conscience, but I would only warn the public that the Serbian Radical Party does not want to play with the deputy prosecutors' functions, in the way you do, and that it lowers them to the level of the clerks whom everyone can appoint, not more elected and resolved. As for Article 5, the duality of the standard, the duality of the criterion, the duality of the morals, I would say, is re-enacted by the legislator. Namely, I have to read Article 5: "With the membership of the High Council of Justice, there are incompatible services, jobs and procedures that are incompatible with the duty of the judge". In accordance with Article 27(2), The law on judges, with the duty of the judge, is incompatible with other services, jobs and procedures that are contrary to the dignity and independence of the judge or damage to the reputation of the court. Suddenly, in Article 5(2). The law on the High Council of Justice says: "It excludes lawyers and officials in the executive government." I ask you to answer me how that judge who will be a member of the High Council of Justice must be moral, must not do any procedure that is incompatible with the reputation of the judge, which would harm the reputation of the court, and those other members, and I am surprised that this is not being responded by the gentlemen lawyers in this room, can also be immoral. They are exempt from the provision that they must be moral people. And who predicts that lawyers are immoral people? Ide(what do you say to state officials, we now have a country full of officials who are immoral people, but why are you insulting an entire profession, and you say - out of obligation to be honest, lawyers are excluded. Yeah, it's hard when you first hear what the bill says, so it bothers you that I warned you about it, and it would be good if you'd read it yourself. [[Sagar.]] I think this provision should be deleted. We need all the honorable and moral people in this, I see that you will choose him, the High Council of Justice, no matter what function they perform and what they do in life.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13560	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13561	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will take the opportunity to partially, speaking of Article 5, respond to what the legislator of this law has just said. It is not true that our proposal to elect Serbian Supreme Court is more opposed to the Constitution as the country's highest legal act, than to form or establish such a body, such as the High Council of Justice. Almost no authority has been left to the National Assembly. Even if the National Assembly returned the proposal of the High Council of Justice, whatever it is, the High Council of Justice has the right, the possibility and is authorized to repeat the exact same proposal and to say - you 250 are all idiots, you are all crazy, we are smart at the High Council of Justice and we are delivering the same proposal. And they can repeat that ten times. The National Assembly has no authority whatsoever. The National Assembly doesn't even choose by the Constitution. It only votes or does not vote what the High Council of Justice has given it. That's what doesn't comply with the Constitution. If you -- what's more consistent, what's more consistent, you'd be incomparably better off with this proposal that we've been making, and I'm sure that both judges and all the employees in the judiciary would be incomparably more satisfied, without any interference from the executive authorities. As for incompatibility with membership, except for the arguments put forward by Tomislav Nikolic, I would refer to the 2nd position, which says lawyers and officials in the executive government are excluded. You see here, therefore, in the most direct way not only of mention, but the open-minded legislator tells you the impact and importance of the executive authorities, or the competent justice ministry. He even gives him greater rights, or limitations than other members of the High Council of Justice, and thus places him in a special place and gives special importance to the function of a man. It doesn't matter who it is today. Whoever it is tomorrow, it's gonna be a lot better than today's minister of justice, but it's still something that can't happen in the country, and we're gonna have a completely politically dictated judiciary. Not only will we not have an independent judiciary, but we will have something that is much worse and that depends much more on political factors, above all, on those who are in power, who determine the fate of the country and the people, than we have ever had before. Even at a bad time, when we had de facto involvement of the authorities in judicial matters, in the affairs of the judiciary at all, we never had direct authority, unsecured ingenuity, so broad prerogatives and influences as we do today, when it comes to the Minister of Justice, or executive authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13562	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 55, against 117 abstentions, there were no nine votes, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration submitted the amendment to Article 5. The proposer accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. A representative of the government has accepted the amendment. The amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 21, against 150, there were no abstentions, there was no 13 vote, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 21, against 148, a abstentioned one, was not voted 13, a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13563	Our general opposition to this bill is also because of the many illogicalities that appear in each member and almost every position. It is Article 8, on which I have submitted an amendment to delete it, that speaks of this indifference and indeterminateness. There are very stretching terms, where it is not defined what is messy, unwitting or biased to do the duty of a member of the High Council of Justice, or who is to establish it, on the basis of which, on the basis of whose complaints. There is no law on what falls under the disorderly, unwitting or biased exercise of the duty of a member of the High Council of Justice. Then, in the second position, the same thing that we had with the Law on Judges, which is that a permanent member, elected by the National Assembly, should be resolved if convicted of a criminal offence to an unconditional prison sentence of more than six months. Why only on a prison sentence for six months? What about those who have been sentenced to a month or two for criminal charges? Aren't they also unworthy to serve as members of your High Council of Justice? What about this where it re-emerges that a member of the High Council of Justice cannot be someone who does things that are unworthy of the duties of a member of the High Council of Justice? What are and whose moral criteria and codes are established by this bill, which say what is an unworthy behavior that makes one unable to be a permanent member of the High Council of Justice? I'd like to go back to something my colleagues were just talking about, which is article 73. The Constitution. The promoter, which is only formally here, MP Dejan Mihajlov, or whoever wrote this bill, wrote in an explanation that the appointment of deputy public prosecutors, as has been the case so far, by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has been cut off by the Constitution, which is not true at all. Mr. Mihajlov, if you read Article 73 of the still valid Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you will see that, in addition to other competences, the National Assembly elects and resolves both the republican public prosecutor and the public prosecutor. And what are deputies in case a public prosecutor can't do for justifiable reasons to perform his job? Under our Constitution and the law and the deputy public prosecutors have absolutely the same authority and so far have been elected to the same period as the public prosecutors.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13564	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13565	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are a few questions here when we have this member in mind, which I would like to ask the motionary. I hope, if he has time and patience, that the Proposer will accept this amendment. In this article, it is said that a member of the invitation is dismissed from the High Council of Justice if he performs his duties in an unsettled, unwitting or biased manner. Now the first question is asked - what are the criteria on which it will be established that this is an unsettled, unsuspecting or biased task, especially when we have in mind (this is now not about invitations, but about permanent members) that you also have representatives of the executive authority. By the nature of things, he'll always be biased. I don't know how it's possible in this way to demand the removal of bias in others. It is also interesting that any decision taken by the High Council of Justice, Article 9, says that the body that is implementing the High Council of Justice is not the right and the possibility to conduct a administrative dispute. It's really amazing. It's one solution that's not only illogical, but it seems to me, legal and formal-lawfully unwarranted, something that's not acceptable to anyone who would read something like this. Look at the kind of tautology we're getting here. It's all about the circle, it's all about one, as I said this morning in the principle of debate, the pullul vitiosus (a vicious circle) and you always end up having more interference with the executive authority and you don't even understand who runs the High Council of Justice, in which way they are resolved, in this case it's the judges elected by the Supreme Court of Serbia (the six, as callers), on which basis, and then again that same body chooses them. So, there's a fight between one of them and this one tends to, and now we're gonna set up someone else. What's that organ that's gonna control that? What is this authority that will be able to rule that any bad decision by the High Council of Justice can disabling, that it can change it? Such an authority does not exist because it is a fully delegated National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, one that would have to have that right and possibility under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But we have already seen that it is not particularly important about the Constitution, not to the promoter, not to many others, nor to those who wrote it in their own time (and I will remind you that JUL wrote this proposal). As far as this is concerned, it's interesting, whatever decision the High Council of Justice makes, you have no right to conduct a administrative dispute. I'm asking the Proposer to explain to us how this is possible. He's got other things to do, though, so he's not listening right now, but it doesn't matter. I'd like someone to explain it to me, how it's possible, how he imagines it can even work. It's also against the constitution. At least two or three members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are being violated, but you must have a complaint. Someone can't just remove you. The possibility of arbitration and the possibility of no repairing such a bad decision made by the High Council of Justice remains. There's no body, there's no organ that's infallible. If the High Council of Justice is wrong, no one can correct his decision. You have no right to conduct a administrative dispute. It's something that's really amazing, and I'm asking you to accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13566	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. In favour of 26, against 138, the abstentions were not, they did not vote 23, a total of 187. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The proposer accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Prime Minister accepted the amendment and thus the amendment became an integral part of the bill. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 11, v. 147, abstention one, no vote 29, a total of 188. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The promoter accepted this amendment, as well as a representative of the government. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible and thus the amendment has become part of the bill. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13567	Ladies and gentlemen, the thesis stretches, and we were able to hear on behalf of Proposer Dejan Mihajlov, who says, in support of this law, that we will have an unsolicited High Council of Justice, an organ outside the political parties that will decide on the choice of judges, public prosecutors, judges and anything else, but it's simply not true. These same judges of the Supreme Court and the President of the Court elect this assembly by their congregation majority. So, people who are similar to them to perform this high office: the election of the public prosecutor, who is also a member of the High Council of Justice, elects that minister of justice, who is a member of the High Council of Justice; and, then, how do we expect the High Council of Justice to be completely out of political influence. There is less political influence and there will be less political influence on the Justice Committee than on a council like this, which still works in a closed session, outside the public. The Justice Committee can be attended by all MPs, heard about candidates, even representatives of public information funds can attend and hear who is proposing, who is behind who and why it stands for. That's why the thesis that dominates the reasoning simply doesn't stand. Maybe that's how it is in the text itself, which is quite confusing itself, can cause the impression that it's now about some advice that's outside and above all the other judicial authorities, which is some small politburo or some new Ubiquitous, which will decide on everything that goes on in the judiciary, so we here in the Assembly serve who and what function they want. But that's not it. There is a greater public and greater possibility of the influence of profession and politics, and less interference of the executive authority in the judiciary if we leave it to the Justice Committee to do this, instead of giving up this right and handing it over to a high council, and in advance each of us could now list the names of the people who will be in this high council of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13568	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 24, against 129 abstentions, they did not vote 32, a total of 185. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 11th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 24, against 133, there were no abstentions, no vote 26, a total of 183. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are members 2, 3, 12 and 13. They can, in interpretation, and in practice, create a lot of concerns, and they can even lead to a minister being expelled from the Council of Justice session. What's this about? Paragraph 1 of Article 12 reads "The narrow composition of the High Council of Justice is made up of permanent and invitationary members". And then this is explained in detail by attitude 2, and he says, "When the issue concerns judges, the narrow composition is made up of permanent and calling members of the judge, and when it comes to public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors -- permanent and calling members of public prosecutors." If you interpret what is a narrow composition of the High Council of Justice, there is no minister. When it comes to judges, they are members of the judge, and when it comes to prosecutors, they are members of the prosecutors. Article 13 speaks of the extended composition of the High Council of Justice and says that - a member of the extended assembly is not the minister in charge of the affairs of the judiciary. It turns out that the provisions of Article 3 which say the minister is in charge of the judiciary a permanent member of the High Council of Justice have not been implemented in Articles 12 and 13, where it is spoken of in which composition, in order to decide, to meet the High Council of Justice. That's why I think the proposer should deal with this. I think this amendment should be adopted, and then given an opportunity to the Legislative Committee or the Committee on Justice and Administration to define the provisions by its amendment. This is really unclear, in fact, whether the Minister is a member of the High Council of Justice or not. By interpreting the provisions of these two members, it's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13570	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13571	It can be assumed that if you read a little more carelessly, someone thinks there's some kind of discrepancy and some kind of illogicality. If read carefully, then it is shown in Article 12 and Article 13 in which the High Council of Justice deals in a narrow composition when it chooses; what it decides. The extended composition deals with things, such as the addition to the salary of judges, the increase of the basic salary when the law provides for other things concerning the position, the direct status of judges, profits and everything else. At that time, there is no need for the executive authority to participate in this decision. That's what we wanted, that when it comes to wages, what's already been passed by the Judges Act, and whether it's possible for investigative judges to increase wages or not, there's no reason for the minister of justice to participate in that, and that's only in the jurisdiction of the judges. It is evident that our intention was not to require an executive or public prosecutor to participate in the decision on salaries. There's an extended composition for that. It's exactly what those decisions are. These are decisions that do not concern the proposal of public prosecutors, but concern only profit and everything else. When you look at both compositions, you see that there are shared competences, exactly what areas they are, and in which composition they are decided.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13572	I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 25, against 131 abstentions, there were no votes, 26, 182 in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. He doesn't want a word. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting the vote to the vote. For 22, against 125, there were no abstentions, no 35, a total of 182. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that we have amendments to Articles 14, 15 and 16, I will now unite my argument on all three amendments, so as not to report three times. Article 14 concerns the decision-making of the High Council of Justice, which is said to be made by the majority of the votes of all members of the rope, i.e. the extended composition, that the meetings of the council are closed to the public (which is inadmissible because this is nevertheless one judicial authority and would have to be open to the public, I explained this a little further) and that no administrative dispute is allowed against the decision of the High Council of Justice. It's something that's really legal nonsens. If he is well aware of these proposals, he should have had this ungrateful duty to explain these JUL bill proposals, to explain how it is possible at all. But Article 15 says that - a member of the High Council of Justice does not attend the session at which it is to be decided. And that makes me think that the High Council of Justice is one state security facility. As Zoran Djindjic would say -- why not allow people to, "face to face" when it comes to them, they can look each other in the eye, face attitudes, and that man has the opportunity to defend himself. It's about his resolution, say, or some of the status issues listed in Article 13. This is really unsustainable. The man who is a member of the High Council of Justice, he is concerned, most in any case make a decision, and he is not given the opportunity to speak his mind. So he has to be away so some of them can talk about him or they can talk about him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13574	Anybody else answer for a word? There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come to you and I'll speak at the same time about Articles 14 and 15. The draft law on the High Council of Justice, and I would like to point out the fact that there are three very big problems here. I hope the promoter finds that out. When we discussed this here and announced that no administrative dispute was allowed against the decision of the High Council of Justice, the question arises - and what is it allowed? What legal means are at his disposal, what can he do, appeal to the Constitutional Court? I don't want to mix the constitutional judiciary with the one where it would be the most direct way and where it would be the most normal and most reasonable to be able to initiate an administrative dispute. Another thing, which is almost unsustainable, amazing, something that even violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is -- the Council of Justice sessions are closed to the public. The question of motive arises - why are the Council of Justice meetings closed to the public? No session, no judicial body, no judicial authority, is closed to the public. Every criminal council has to let the public go, in accordance with the law, without talking about this kind of thing. What will be discussed there, what will be discussed there, what decisions will be made there, when those sessions are closed to the public. And then there's going to be a press conference, where we won't even know what the argument is, what the argument is, who suggested certain professional candidates, what qualifications they are, what it is that makes them in a special way worthy of judicial functions. It is, therefore, something that is totally unacceptable, something that is completely unreasonable. Finally, the highlight of the incredible solutions in this law is the first position of Article 15, which discusses the exemption from participation and voting at the session when deciding on a member of the High Council of Justice. A member of the High Council of Justice shall not attend the sitting in which it is decided. Now I ask you to imagine an example - the High Council of Justice session is closed to the public. There is no one whose fate is decided. How will he know, and how will anyone know what happened at that session of the High Council of Justice, what was going on, on what basis, the minutes, what, which is the official act, the official note, on what basis will we even gain insight into what was going on there? What will he, whose interest, whose right is injured, in what way will he be able to know what he's done, what he's done wrong, what was he supposed to do differently? It seems to me this is something we've never had. Please ask the Proposer to come out and explain - why there is no administrative dispute, why are the Council of Justice meetings closed to the public, and why can the one on whom it is decided not attend the meetings of the High Council of Justice? If there's anyone, not a pronoun, let them come out and explain to me how it's possible and why it's like that? I don't think there are any logical, smart answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13576	He has the word Mr. Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13577	Just one thing about the lack of public and public participation in this process at all. As we know, the judges are being decided by the Assembly, it's a completely public procedure, because there is no secrecy in sessions, especially at these sessions. We've been deciding about judges here for days, there's been a debate about each judge individually, and there's no secrecy in that situation. The High Council of Justice, if anyone is already interested in why someone is not or is running for judge, gives an explanation in its decision, so that it is absolutely guaranteed to the public in the process, just because it is being discussed in front of the cameras, in front of the public, in front of the whole of Serbia, on proposals for judges and all other functions, so that it is absolutely provided to the public. We do not see that there are objections that someone wants to do something far from the public's eyes, because where will the greater public than we have now, that in a direct transmission, in front of the entire Assembly, they solve all the important issues, and we, as promoters, believe that this observation in this situation cannot stand [[Alexander Vukic seeks the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13578	There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13579	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I made three remarks, it seemed very reasonable. One was why the Council of Justice's meetings were closed to the public, not to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's a good thing there's a transmission, because if the people were informed of what's in the papers, they'd never know what's going on in the Assembly, but nobody slowed it down. I said another thing, I asked a question about the lack of the right to conduct a administrative dispute against decisions taken by the High Council of Justice, not a word of it. And thirdly, there is no right of those to whom it is decided and who do not have the right to attend a session of the High Council of Justice. Accordingly, it is a particularly important question - why are the meetings of the High Council of Justice, not the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, closed to the public? We can guess what the causes and motives are, is it because the pressure is expected to be the Republic's authority, or the executive authority of the Republic's judiciary and administration? What the minister will say, will everyone have to accept afterwards, and then let the Assembly discuss what they are and what they are, can publicly state both of them. But if, once again, the High Council of Justice, in a closed session, doesn't like it, can give us back that same proposal and doesn't have to change it at all, and we can, by principle, say, "take it or leave it". And what do we do? We go back to the same thing again, and we still don't know who it is that put those spices in our soups, who's the one who's been making such a mess of us, what's been going on at the High Council of Justice session, because nobody knows what's been going on there. And what are we going to do when someone solves the functions of a member of the High Council of Justice, when there is no openness of the session? We don't have that at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but that's why he doesn't even know what happened, he doesn't even know what argument against him was used, how to defend himself, how to even do what? He can't start a administrative dispute. It's just that there are a lot of completely indecisive and vague questions that I would ask a comprehensive, concrete and correct answer, or I would ask you to accept this amendment, because I think without this member, this might somehow work, and this is really going to be very difficult.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13580	He has the word Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13581	First of all, Mr. Wolf has mixed things up. If the High Council of Justice is discussed, it is not the High Council of Justice that discusses it, but the one who chose the High Council of Justice, which is the Supreme Court of Serbia. As we know, Serbian Supreme Court sessions know what they are. Closed sessions are precisely to allow for work independence. You've got the public in the works, we know how it's done publicly, we know how it's made public, and we know what the pressures are done publicly, and don't let us, who want us to ensure absolute independence of the judiciary of everything, make it impossible. We in this congregation give up one of our rights, which you (not specifically think of you) have given to yourself, that they may be the ones to decide on judges and everything that happens in the judiciary. We disown that right in favour of those who in that judiciary and work, and therefore the sessions, to the extent necessary, are closed to the public. The whole other procedure is public and do not honor us that there is no public, because the public has you and will always be. And, if a member of the High Council of Justice is discussed, it is resolved by the Supreme Court of Serbia, not by the High Council of Justice itself. It's absolutely all public, both in choice and in resolution, so there's no room for these remarks you've made. But I wish your amendment instead of being "expunged," was with some constructive proposal, like an amendment that we could discuss on the Committee. We simply believe that this amendment was in the form in which you put it here in substance. What you're saying here might be a place to talk as legislators, as well as on the Justice and Administration Committee, which has given a number of good amendments. But like your amendment, we haven't had time to think about these things, whether we accept them or not -- probably not, but to think about it and maybe make another decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13582	He has the word Mr. Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13583	The Honored Presidency, dear colleagues, has been proposed to delete a complete member of 14. - that member, among other things, speaks in the first place about the way decisions are made by the High Council of Justice and the erasure of that position would make the law really incomplete. Because if you don't set the mechanism by regulation -- how does an organ, some body make decisions, we have a legal void. The Socialist Party of Serbia and the parliamentary group are absolutely for the Council of Justice's sessions not to be closed to the public. We also supported (the stenogram shows) the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, which also covered the issue in the Law on Judges and the Law on Court Order. However, such an amendment, unfortunately, has not been submitted on our part, and neither by the proposings, and that is the only reason why we will be abstained in this amendment, although part of the argument, which a respected Serbian Radical Party colleague has made, we absolutely accept and share that opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13584	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to Article 14. For 24, against 110, with 33 abstentions, 15, 182 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Can I understand that everyone is interested in this and the next one has already come forward? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13585	I had no intention of answering my word, but Mr. Dejan Mihailov had me down to it, because he misread our first explanation through these amendments, and then the whole spirit of this law. To be clear, it is not against the SRS to single out as much from the legislative authority the judicial branch of the government as possible. Or that the less influence the legislative and executive authority has on the judicial branch of power. Not this way, because we don't think this is a good way to do it. This is just politicizing the judiciary. When we talked about the Law on Judges, we explained this concept in detail and said that we believe that this high body, that the Assembly should choose only the President of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court judge and leave the Supreme Court to choose the judges of the lower courts. So we don't want to keep it to ourselves. This way, the High Council of Justice is not what the General Session of the Supreme Court, where people sitting in the Supreme Court should decide which of the candidates, on the basis of a proposal from the lower courts, depending on which the majority is elected by the judges, give an opinion for their colleague. Mostly everyone knows and has the opportunity to check, based on the performance of the results they achieve, whether it's up-to-date, how much judgment it's over, how much it's been returned, how much it's confirmed, whether it should be promoted or not. This body is a political body that really reminds me of Tito's wedding.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13586	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 22, against 133, a abstentioned one, was not voted 21, a total of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 16. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 21, against 131, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 17th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13587	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that we Serbian radicals were right when we all the time claimed that by establishing the High Council of Justice, the executive power is directly involved, there is direct interference and will have direct influence in the future work of the High Council of Justice, according to article 2. It's a bill of law. And one more thing, for an additional explanation. We are nearing the end of the debate of the law in particular. Every amendment of the SRS MPs from 1st to 20th was "expect". Because of this and because of our earlier stand to oppose the establishment of the High Council of Justice, it was inappropriate by some MPs, which made such remarks - if deleted, how will the High Council of Justice continue to function. We use the opportunity, business, to go out on every amendment, to point out why we are against the establishment of the High Council of Justice. Article 17, paragraph 2, says, "The professional and administrative affairs for the High Council of Justice are being done by the Ministry of Justice." Now the question arises, since it is not directly the justice minister involved in the work of the High Council of Justice, its member will be, and will also involve employees from the justice ministry. You're just one more thing, gentlemen of the DSS and the JUL, wherever you've missed to say you're going to put a new ballast on people, a new burden. And what you're going to pay them for, and how for all that, besides their work, they're going to have to work in the Department of Justice. If you are already in Article 18, and Mr Nikolic will talk about this, you shall provide for fees for members, members of the High Council of Justice, if you have already provided for in Article 13, and that the High Council of Justice in the extended composition will propose a supplement on the salary of judges, to decide on an increase in the basic salary, etc., which will be the additions for those who are employed in the Ministry of Justice. Even if you had told us that the High Council of Justice, which is supposed to be an expert, independent and professional body, would have met and held its own press session at the Justice Ministry, we would have absolutely understood everything. We have a case so far that the Justice Minister is calling his party activists at the Ministry of Justice and there giving them instructions for their further action. Now we understand exactly what the Justice Department is going to be turning into and what all employees are going to have to do there. Because you continue to bureaucratise the judiciary and the entire judicial system, by establishing such bodies as the High Council of Justice, not only do you not want to implement reforms, but you will also make the position of employees in the Ministry of Justice even more difficult.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13588	Thank you for your explanation. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 22, against 131, a abstentioned one, was not voted 24, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept the adjective amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13589	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I have to draw attention to the fact that the president of the DSS parliamentary group has unwarrantedly received applause from the society from the corner when he said that this bill provides for impartiality in the election of judges and attacked the National Assembly, in so far, that it has been biased in the choice of judges, and the High Council of Justice, which will now propose judges and prosecutors, will be elected to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know what this is about. How impartiality is now achieved, when only the number of people chosen by the National Assembly is narrowed down, who will propose judges to the National Assembly again. But to return to Article 18, which I cannot believe is written by someone who belongs to the National Assembly at all. For the sake of the public, I must read Article 18: "All members of the High Council of Justice shall be compensated for their work. It is determined by the National Assembly." Well, you know what, to humiliate the National Assembly so much that it interferes with the fact that it determines a fee for the work of members of an organ, although you know very well that by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 73 point 1. 2. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopts laws, other regulations and general acts, so who is now ordering the National Assembly to determine compensation for the work of eleven members, or how long it will be, in an authority. Well, that really doesn't make sense. Do not play with the National Assembly and yet convince us that this introduces impartiality to judges, that the National Assembly is finally washing its character from the biased choice of judges. This really doesn't look like a democratically decorated country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13590	Is anyone else answering for a word about this amendment? Here you go. He has the word MP Alexander Vukic, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13591	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday we spoke on several occasions about so-called the secondary legislation and the violation of the Law on Salary in State Authorities. What these fees mean for the work of members of the High Council for Justice. I would especially point to the fact that the compensation will be received by those who, at the invitation of the judge, will therefore be the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia and six other judges. Labour compensation will be received by the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for Justice and Administration, or by his V.D. a republican public prosecutor or a republican public prosecutor, elected in accordance with the upcoming law on our agenda. So, something that is absolutely amazing, is being taken away from the key competences of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is being taken away from it what it has to do, the duty under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to work, and then puts something in charge that could even be regulated by a sublegal legal act by any competent ministry. Because, anyway, that it should be regulated, it should not be regulated, because in this way the congregation only humbles itself and undermines its role and importance. But for me, the question arises -- what does a work fee do to those who have their call in accordance with the Law on Judges, if I'm not mistaken as a back-up specialis in relation to the Law on Salary in State Authorities? Their wages have already been fixed, their incomes have been determined, and now they will receive even more wages for work, and that will be determined by the National Assembly. Well, it's really something that's amazing. It's not a matter of how much it's going to pay and whether it's going to go to the taxpayers' expense. That's less significant. It's really secondary in this case. But these principles are incomparably more important and this mess in laws. That incompatibility, that inconsistency, that no one else will be able to know in what law what to look for when it comes to wages. Instead of opening one law, the Law on Salary in State Authorities, it will now have to be one function, for the minister of justice, for a public prosecutor or for a judge, to open seven or eight laws only to regulate his income. We're introducing a complete mess, a complete mess into our legal system. Something really amazing. I call upon the MPs, however much more interesting they may be, to accept this amendment. I don't think we need a member like this, that a regulated work fee like this doesn't need it, that it's even against the law. Now, it's up to you to decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13592	Thank you. The word has been made by a representative of the motionor, MP Dejan Mihajlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13593	Since there is still a dilemma here, unfortunately, about who chooses members of the High Council for Justice, here I read, in Article 4, it says: "Six summoning members of judges elect Serbia's Supreme Court among judges." I don't know if this needs to be broken down yet, whether I should downgrade that the Serbian Supreme Court is electing members of the High Council for Justice and six members of the High Council for Justice, of the eleventh to the Council. So, most of the members of the High Council for Justice, when deciding on judges, elects the Supreme Court of Serbia, means they're elected at the General Session and that's what we're talking about here. There's no politics here. And when we talk about work compensation, let's get out of social demagogy, where everyone will be doing everything for free, so everyone will volunteer, volunteer. Here you have to pay and give a reward to those who have a responsibility. These people sitting in the High Council for Justice have the responsibility to elect judges, to give the right solutions. It is responsibility for the judicial system in Serbia. The responsibility for what justice these judges will share, how the interests of citizens in this situation will be protected, how their rights will be protected, or how they will be guaranteed. In accordance with that responsibility, someone with great responsibility for this country must have compensation for it. There's no social demagogy. We want this, we want that, we'll all volunteer for action, brigades and all that. Everyone should be paid for what they do. Finally, we come to have members of the High Judicial Council paid. If anyone has great responsibility for the state, he should receive compensation for what he does and be subject to responsibility and criticism for what he does precisely because he is paid for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13594	Here you go. [[In the meantime Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene, seeks a replica: He misread my presentation.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13595	Why is it so hard for you, he really misread my exposure. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and society from the corner, the predecessor misread my presentation. In the proposal he himself proposed, in Article 27. The Law on Judges, which we adopted right before this, paragraph 1 states: "The judge cannot do any public or private paid work." Please, the fee for working at the High Council of Justice can't be paid to the judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13596	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13597	Of course, you need to read it all the way back to the end -- these are jobs that are incompatible with the judge's office. This is a job that judges and judges are chosen to do. Someone can't be a member of the High Judicial Council by coming down from the street and putting him on the street, but it has to be a judge, and then it needs to enjoy the compensation, because it's not a job that's incompatible with the judge's office, as it stands, but it's just a member of the council. And we want him to be a member and we want him well rewarded because he has more responsibility than any other judge who is not a member of that council. That was our intention. I don't see what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13598	I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 42, against 97, the abstention of four, was not voted 33, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13599	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a society from the corner, I'd just have to say something because I didn't have the right to reply, and the Proposer has the right to report as many times as he wants to. No one mentioned any work action before, no social demagogy. I even said it was secondary to breaking the legal principles, constitutional principles. That's what's more incomparably important, and it wasn't at all talked about. When you don't have an argument, when you don't know what to say and how to answer, then you're going to remember some very action parole that you're going to go out with and say, well, we're the ones who have the arguments. You don't have them. The work fee is being introduced and this is the 15th law that regulates the reception of people who work in the judiciary. If you know that anyone in this room will be able to manage, not one of the other citizens of Serbia, I tell you to do a survey now and you will see that no one lives in the hall will know that they are giving you laws that regulate the reception of those who perform judicial functions. No one lives, and you won't know it either. Here's the point in the next one. Maybe society in the corner knows. They're in a good mood. There seems to be a reason. (President: Mr. Wolfie, this isn't a bar. Take care of what you say. That's why I'm talking to them that way. I hope they understand that. I'd like you to pay attention to that too, not to me in the bar language, because unlike you, I'm going out, I'm proposing amendments and I'm talking about what's on the agenda. Just don't put your hand in my pocket, please. As far as this member of the law is concerned, this is our attempt, perhaps the last attempt, to influence the facts and try to convince the people's representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia not to accept the proposed solutions essentially, not to vote for this law. If this amendment were to be accepted, the whole law would be pointless, which is our goal because it's a bad law package. We think it would be a good idea for an amendment like this to be accepted. I am particularly interested in how and how we should expect proposals for new solutions to judicial functions since 1 January 2002, how quickly will this and such solutions happen to us, how and from whom will it depend? I can see how the minister of justice is sweet. He'll be able to do whatever he wants and whatever he wants, to set up whoever he wants, to solve whoever he wants, and he'll say that the High Council of Justice, as an expert body, actually suggested it. The High Council of Justice, a body of considerable influence by the executive authority, will have all the power in its hands, will be able to do and say whatever it wants, will be able to choose and appoint who it wants. What you throw and how you throw -- in our cafes it's still much nicer tossing, it's more polite, and even when it's rude, it's more ridiculous than what society from the corner does.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13600	Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 22, against 135, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 22, a total of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by Parliament member Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 22, against 133, with three abstentions, they did not vote 24, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed the review of the Bill's proposal in particular and the amendment decision, does the Proposer want to give the final statement? He doesn't want to. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. (Tomislav Nikolic: First, to determine the quorum before the vote. ) Please determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I put the draft law on the High Council of Justice in general. For 143 against 23, there were no abstentions, not three, of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on the High Council of Justice. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY LAW (specificities) You have received a bill submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: Djordje Mamula, Dragan Todorovic, Dragan Tomic, Zoran Nikolic, Ljubisa Maravic, Branko Ružic, Zoran Radovanovic, Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandar Vukic, Natasa Jovanovic and Gordana Pop-Lazic, as well as the Committee for Justice and Administration. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the draft law. Since the National Assembly, having concluded a joint principled search under which the draft public prosecutor's law has been discussed, has adopted the proposal for this law in principle, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13601	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, each of you should consider what this Article 6 looks like, both of its attitudes, and how it's reflected in the public so far, and how it's just going to be in the future. Namely, and now we have government officials, investigative judges, people from the prosecution, each living person informs the public not only of the course of the proceedings, the phenomena he notices, but also of who will be arrested, who will be convicted, who will be released. Newspapers get a man, like beasts catch prey. You're in vain after someone in two sentences or in half of a sentence publishes either a denial or a sincere confession that he was wrong. Lying on a man can stay for all time, and that's why I think the bill promoter should be more specific. In fact, it can really happen that the interests of the proceedings do not harm, and it can have social significance, to inform the public of the matter in which the Public Prosecutor's Office is acting. Indeed, it can, but who will find the measure, or whether it will be the public prosecutor's office that assesses what harms the interests of the proceedings, or whether someone should be taking care of it, and that it leads it much better than it has been so far, especially since you came to power, about individuals who have been guided by care. Namely, when could this have the social significance of notifying the public prosecutor about the matter he's dealing with? Maybe if the public were upset by some phenomenon, but you should know that it's enough that the M.O.P. goes public. The MUP, when it comes to the phenomenon it is dealing with and when it thinks there is a great concern for the public, calms the public by saying that the investigation is under way, that the perpetrators are being sought. I don't know how the D.A. could calm the public down while he's at the same time calmly in one thing, so he can keep the public informed. And what if it turns out that the indictment will not be filed, what if it turns out that the prosecution within its affairs finds that there is no basis for launching an investigation, the prosecution of any kind, and who will then wash the cheek of the public? Your public, your media are doing this at hurricane speed right now. The decision hasn't even been made yet, things aren't being handled yet, and the media even have photographs. There are media that serve you till the end, there's media that take money from the Department of State Security, give them money for photos that they get directly from them, for lists, for information on procedures. There are privileged media from which state officials are also informed. That's why it would be good to delete this position 2. The D.A.'s office doesn't communicate with the public. The D.A.'s office is doing the jobs he's been entrusted with by law. These jobs do not involve public calming, some other authorities do.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13602	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13603	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I'd like to say something we talked about in the principle debate on the draft law on the public prosecutor's office. That's when I said that Article 3 of the proposed law seems pretty grotesque. I'll remind those who don't have the law in front of them or who haven't read it. It says: "The use of public office, the means of public notification and any public hearing affecting the public prosecutor's office is prohibited. "I must say, if, in the end, the law in general is passed, it seems to me that many, above all of the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and many of the DOS officials, will lose the sense of existence, because the only thing they and the obedient media are concerned with, the DOS media, and these are almost everyone in the Republic that I am not wrong of the soul, it's just a job of pressure on the public prosecutor's office to have someone prosecuted. (That, by the way, means - on official duty - you know, seeing as you don't understand. ) So this is something that seems to me to be the biggest problem today and it would be good if this norm, so Article 3, found application in practice. I was obliged to say from this place that those who don't read the laws, those who don't care about the laws, but only revolutionary justice, would have in mind that this is the law you propose, that this is the law that a DOS party proposes, so keep in mind when next time you continue to carry out and enforce your revolutionary justice. As far as Article 2nd is concerned and the notification to the public, first of all, I think that, for technical reasons, it would be almost necessary for this amendment to be accepted. It is not clear what this would mean, when and in what cases the interests of the proceedings are damaged, who is the one who assesses the harmfulness of the proceedings, when and in what way the abuse of authority in the notification of the public by the competent public prosecutor will be committed, or will not. Secondly, the question arises, if we ask this member differently, if it harms the interests of the proceedings -- what the public prosecutor's office will then do, who will then inform the public about the course of the proceedings, whether it will be done as it is today through the MUP or through certain investigative judges who will not know who to shout at, dig deeper, I need more bodies for whom I don't know, or I don't know what's already going to happen. Due to the inaccuracy of this standard, I am convinced that the Proposer also agrees that it would be good to accept this amendment and delete Article 6(2)'s position.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13604	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 45, against 112, there were no abstentions, there was no vote 14, a total of 171. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The proposer accepted the amendment, as well as a representative of the government, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible and thus the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Committee on Justice and Administration submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. The proposer accepted this amendment, as well as a representative of the government, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible and thus the amendment became an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 19, against 131 abstentions, there were no, no 24 votes, a total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the bearer of the courtman want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13605	In the draft law on the public prosecutor's office, the Proposer told us that this bill best regulates the jurisdiction and organisation of the public prosecutor's office, the position of public prosecutors and their deputies and their choice and appointment. The SRS strongly opposes such a bill, as the first members of the bill make it absolutely clear that this law in many of its provisions is opposed to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 22, in Article 2, and my amendment refers to a second position, what we were talking about during the debate in particular on the previous law that you just adopted on the High Council of Justice. In fact, this law on the public prosecutor's office, in its largest work, relies precisely on the recently adopted Law on the High Council of Justice, which we, through a detailed argument, strongly opposed. However, before I continue to explain my amendment, I would ask the President of the National Assembly to apply Article 102. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly - while some walk on the right, and one stands on the left, with society in the corner, while others talk, while some chew gum, we need to talk about the things they will and how they will concern the citizens of Serbia, and above all those who are employed in the authorities of the state administration and the Ministry of Justice. Furthermore, the law, as Mr. Alexander Vukic said several times in the principle debate and in the discussion of the details, was inconsistencies. That with each of these set of laws, and one with the other, it is actually in complete contradiction, including its members, this Article 22, paragraph 2, which says: "The High Council of Justice decides on a request for the exemption of the Republic's public prosecutor if the proceedings are conducted for a criminal or other criminal act specified by the regulations of the Republic of Serbia. "How this typewriter, and we assume who this person is, did not pay attention to what is in Article 1. The bill, where the public prosecutor's office is said to be an independent state body that prosecutes perpetrators of criminal and other criminal acts. The question arises how, due to the recent establishment of an alleged High Judicial Council of Justice, the independent state body, a republican public prosecutor, can now lay down accounts and, under the orders of the High Council of Justice, give up or be ordered to do what needs to be done. In the future, gentlemen, when you propose a law from any area, you must take a good look at what is written in the first article, and what is in the second to continue, you must read the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where it is absolutely said what should be done by a republican public prosecutor, as long as his independence goes, to whom he is responsible for his work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13606	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 21, against 129 abstentions, there were no 27 votes, and a total of 177 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop - Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the promoter want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13607	The conditions for working in the National Assembly are becoming impossible, but I hope we can hold out for 20 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment that I have filed concerns Article 25, where this law introduces the term of the public prosecutor's office. This is a term unknown in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, except for the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor, which is actually the same, because what is the deputy attorney rather than a public prosecutor? Who's representing the indictment, if not the deputy attorney general? It is the public prosecutor who manages the public prosecutor's office, but it is the deputies who represent the indictment and who are in court doing what the law has placed in their jurisdiction. In addition, this Article 25 is in complete contradiction with Article 24. I have to read both members. Article 25 states: "If the public prosecutor ceases his duty, the Republic Public Prosecutor shall appoint the public prosecutor to perform his duties until the new public prosecutor enters office and, above all, on.... "
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13608	Is someone gonna answer that cell phone or at least turn it off?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13609	Please, Mr. President, don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13610	All right, then turn on your cell phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13611	.... "(executor of the duties of the Republic Public) the prosecutor is appointed by the minister responsible for the judiciary. "
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13612	I didn't mean to tear you up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13613	But you interrupted me, and I'm less distracted by that phone than when you're behind my back. Imagine now the situation of the Belgrade District Attorney's Office -- a public prosecutor, and 36 deputies and none can replace a public prosecutor, a district attorney, but it is necessary for the minister of justice, and in this situation a republican public prosecutor, to appoint a district attorney, i.e. a public prosecutor. Then what are we doing here? The assembly continues to elect public prosecutors. Under this law you've just passed, the High Justice Council is electing deputy public prosecutors. If that High Council of Justice cannot react in time and choose a new one, if necessary, or determine which of the 36 will replace the public prosecutor, then it is completely ineffective, as you have proposed to the High Council of Justice. The situation is now such that we do not have a republican public prosecutor, and the official of the duties of the republic's public prosecutor is appointed by the minister in charge of the judiciary. However, this law only takes effect in a month and a half, otherwise in eight days we would have a new republican public prosecutor appointed by Vladan Batic, not the National Assembly. And the 24th member, who precedes this article, is talking about replacing a public prosecutor. Well, that's what the deputy public prosecutor actually does, and then there's no need to introduce this termology that's left of Cardell's ZUR. We only had officers there and nowhere else. That's why I think this member is too high, that he needs to be deleted, that he gives authority to a minister of justice who shouldn't have and that he's absolutely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13614	He's got the word, Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13615	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to warn you that the acceptance, i.e. the stay and survival in the text of Article 25, which introduces a new institute, completely incredible and with almost incredible powers of the Minister of Justice, introduces us not only to legal barbarism, but, I would say, to the arbitration of unsuspecting and unseen proportions, which will allow illegal and political, the right political savagery of the executive authority on judicial ground. Namely, here you can see the essence of the previous Law on the High Council of Justice and some of the other laws of the law that we have passed, if you want the Law on Judges and the Law on the Regulation of Courts. Here you can see the real intention of the promoter. The right of the promoter is to strengthen the powers of the executive authority, strengthen the prerogatives of the minister of justice or the minister of justice and administration, however you will, who is entitled to elect a member of the Republic's public prosecutor for a year. It's so horrifying, because you can think of what it's going to be like to perform a public prosecutor's office when someone directly elected by the minister of justice does it for a year? Let's put ourselves in the current situation, worse, we can hardly imagine in practice. Maybe it's possible, but I can't imagine at this point a worse, worse situation. And today we have a republican public prosecutor, who is not actually a republican public prosecutor, but who always and exclusively has to act on a direct order from the government, and let's see how we're going to have him in the future, what is this man going to do? For what must be prosecuted under official duty, he will not pursue unless he is given strict approval by the minister of justice, executive power, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister in the final instance. And in this way, from an independent state body, not an independent state authority, so that some would like to transfer us to talk about it, but an independent state body, we have created a political tool in the hands of the government against political insinuators, against all those who disagree with what the government is doing in Serbia. I think it's something that the government MPs, if they want to think about and the possible devastating consequences, will accept, because they should bear in mind that no one has ruled for hundreds of years, that some new people, who might be able to use what they bring today, will come against them. Always the one in power should think about passing laws like he would like to have when he's in opposition, and think about how you behave, how you abuse executive power by interfering in judicial functions, how it interferes with the judicial authority, if you will, although this is an isolated authority of power. The question is how will it all work in these conditions. I think that eradicating this member is the most important thing for us, which is why we were primarily against this law. This article is the essence of this law, it is the worst possible of all the members we have adopted, which we have tried to bring down in previous laws on the regulation of courts, on judges and on the High Council of Justice. I ask MPs to have understanding, to understand what we are introducing to Serbia -- to introduce the government's dictatorship in Serbia, the dictatorship of government, executive bodies, as we have never had in our modern history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13616	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 19, v. 135, abstention three, did not vote 17, a total of 174. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. They submitted to Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Dragan Todorovic and the Committee on Justice and Administration. The proposer has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government has also accepted this amendment, so I realize it has become an integral part of the bill. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13617	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, he's a vague member of 26, and there's a cynical explanation in which it's said to be the protection of the vice-president of the republican public prosecutor. He says the duration of the reference is limited, since this reference does not require his consent. What does it mean that a republican public prosecutor can deploy his deputy outside the public prosecutor's office without the education of special organisational units? So, outside the seat of any public prosecutor's office. Is this the vice-president of the Republic Public Prosecutor, which points to a need in a place outside the seat of any public prosecutor's office? What kind of business, what need has driven a republican public prosecutor to send his deputy into the middle of nowhere, because there is no public prosecutor's office in the middle of nowhere. And it can last nine months, over two calendar years, if it is applicable to Article 46-- approximately this norm points to Article 46, under which the republican public prosecutor again directs public prosecutors and deputies (means, districtal, municipal) without their consent to another public prosecutor's office of the same or lower rank. So, a republican public prosecutor can send a district attorney or a deputy to the district or municipal public prosecutor's office. Second, the municipal public prosecutor can send only the second district public prosecutor's office, because there is no lower rank, and the deputy republican public prosecutor can send out of the seat of any public prosecutor's office, into the middle of nowhere, just because he can be bothered. This law provides for advances for some people to bother some new people. This means that deputies will disturb the performer of the Republic Public Prosecutor's office since he was elected by the Council of Justice's decision, because such an amendment has been adopted, so within a year I think there will be a major misdemeanour both in the prosecutions and in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. I think that many MPs today, supporting this whole set of solving the problems of judges and prosecutors, are not aware of how much injustice they will do to people the minister claims will be replaced, and their colleagues say they will not allow anyone to be resolved unless their guilt is truly proved. None of the judges will be released just because he was a judge at a time when the new justice minister didn't like it. So you reach out to these solutions where people can be moved, flies, to play with their fates, their families, to make them more cost of life, because they go the other way. That means you make them flee from the judiciary, the prosecution, and the courts, just because you won't like what they're judging by the law. You didn't like those laws at the time they were in place.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-06-0.u13618	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 43, against 120, the three abstentions, did not vote 8, a total of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we don't have time for the next amendment, and before we finish today's work, just brief information. On the basis of Article 24. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that a member of the DOS - League of Social Democrats of the Vojvodina League for the Forest in the National Assembly, numbering seven members, is seven MPs. We'll continue work tomorrow at ten o'clock.
