ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12741	Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which are on the agenda after several days of debates, have completely convinced me of justification and represent a forced step towards introducing order into the work of this house. The first part of the amendments requires the introduction of a privatisation committee. I think it was an agreement in June, when the Privatisation Act was adopted, with Mr. Vlahovic to include a committee like this as new in the work of this assembly, and we believe that this committee will have a lot of work to do and that it will allow one effective control of privatisation in our country. In the second part of these changes, where it is said about the way, the procedure of adopting certain legal acts, enables the opposition MPs to contribute to a better and better work of this home through a more quality work in their parliamentary groups. That's why I think the changes in this part are necessary. Some of the sanctions imposed by this Rules of Procedure, which is new in our Rules of Procedure, are the result of weak, inefficient and unquality work by individual parliamentary groups. I don't think the opposition's other parliamentary groups have any problems (it applies to only one parliamentary group) and I don't see any reason why they would vote against these changes. At the end of these proposals, there is and there is an interpretation of the government's work. I think this is necessary because the opposition is also in order to control the government's work. I don't see why the opposition would vote against the introduction of impellation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why are the amendments of the Rules of Procedure on the work of this assembly being sought? The answer is very simple - because of more efficient work. Let me read the copies of the second session of the second session held on 7 December 1998, I would like to point out in particular, on the agenda were the following points: The choice of legal holders, the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 1999, the Law on the Budget of Kosovo and Metohija for 1999, the Law on the Use of the Agrarian Budget, the Law on the Funds of the Social Programme of Serbia, the Law on the participation of municipalities in the 1999 Transport Tax, the Proposal for the Law on Special Rights of Selected Persons, the Act on the Action Fund and the Bill on Arms and Ammunition Law. Gentlemen, the session started at 11.00 and ended at 21:45. In ten and a half hours, including lunch breaks, all nine important laws have been passed. Not to remind you that it took us a week to adopt only the Budget Act. I can't help but feel that individual opposition leaders who have spent years in this House as if they've slept over the past ten years, or as if they weren't here, didn't know what it was about. That's why I call on all the MPs to vote for these changes. The question arises why MPs did not then come out with 500 amendments, endless replicas, violations of the Rules of Procedure, but was adopted. That the Democratic Party of Serbia was right to propose these amendments to the law also shows the number of amendments submitted, around 800, representing around 15 working days. What quality amendments have already been made here, many of these amendments have been cited. I don't want to quote them again, but it should be imagined that it takes a month to hear about it and stuff like that. That is why I call on all MPs to vote in favour of these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, and the amendment's proposings to consider whether they will come out here and defend such amendments. They should respect this parliament and the people who chose them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12742	The word of the Messenger of the people, Vojkan Tomic, shall be prepared for the messenger of the people, Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12743	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the Rules of Procedure, we must first pay attention to the importance of the Rules of Procedure in general for parliamentary life and the political system. We must view the Rules of Procedure first and foremost as the tool that Parliament is working on and doing its most important job, which is the adoption of the law. The second most important business that parliament has is the control of the executive authority. For that other job, the rules of procedure are also important. When we say democracy, we always mean procedure, and when we say democracy and look at parliament, we always think of argument and quality discussion and debate. The discussion and the debate must always come as a result of good law and good decision by parliament itself. The unquestionably important of the Rules of Procedure also says that one of our biggest lawyers, Slobodan Jovanovic, paid a lot of attention and spent a lot of time on the issue of the Rules of Procedure, and one of them even wrote it. These changes that we have in front of us today, which are not a comprehensive solution to the rules of procedure at all, but rather an extorted solution that must enable us to work more quickly and efficiently. The other two criteria, run by the promoter of these changes, are efficiency and economics. Why efficiency - simple, because it requires a parliament that will work quickly, which will pass laws, a parliament that will not hold back reforms, a parliament that through the parliamentary majority will fulfill part of the pre-election promises, concerning the adoption of new laws, and in general, legislative legislation. The economy tells us, simply one detail, which is the cost of costing one session of parliament, and these funds can always be used more adequately, let's just say for the quality of work of the working bodies of the Assembly, the work of MPs on the ground or the modernisation of Parliament itself. Parliament was in the previous period, and I am not only talking about this assembly of parliament, but years ago, thanks to a group of MPs being devised: long speeches, written by someone else's hand, in terms of "blah, blah" speech, MPs who have always had trouble reading these written speeches with someone else's hand. We hear that MPs are deprived of the right to speak, and I say that some are better off silent than saying anything after this pay phone. In all European parliaments, parliament's work takes place outside the plenary hall, it is work in working bodies, these are informal contacts and all other aspects of political communication in one parliament. Of course, it all means that the opposition is a constructive opponent of the position, which is currently in power. When we talk about Parliament's seriousness, there is only one indicator of Parliament's seriousness, which is the adoption of quality law, which resulted in a quality and fruitful debate. We can look at the proposed changes in multiple directions. I have singled out some six directions, which primarily refer to the time and order of discussion, then punishment, the possibility of submitting amendments, reading speeches, strengthening the role of the president of the parliamentary group and the parliamentary groups themselves and impeling them. As far as time goes, it is clear to all of us that this obstruction is taking place and that MPs are simply chasing for the assembly speaker and thus wanting to obstruct the work of parliament. As far as the time is concerned, I have proposed an amendment relating to the expansion of time for speakers who are listed in order, and as far as the punishment itself is concerned, the intensity of the promoter is clear, but I must tell you that the Movement for Democratic Serbia disagrees with the punishment, because the reminder then loses the true meaning of the warning itself, viewing it as something that precedes the sentence itself, which is taking away words. As for the amendments, as well as the possibility of submitting only one amendment to one member of the law, if we look at the essence of the amendment as a correction of the proposed legislative project, we will see that such quality amendments in a large number of cases can also be accepted by the opposition. As for reading the talk, I was already talking about it, but still the Rules of Procedure of the Kingdom of SHS, in 1922, banned the reading of speech, but also the Rules of Procedure of the German Bundestage also says that in principle it is forbidden to read the speech, which of course does not mean that they cannot have notes on themselves, or on short thesis. Since my time is up, I'd like to say something about impelation in the end. Interpletion, as one of the greatest achievements of parliamentary democracy in general, can be the subject of discussion only about the number of interpretations during one year, or the number of MPs to submit the interpretation. We are pushing for that number to be one-fifth, so that certain opposition parliamentary groups can give the joint forces an interpretation of a particular issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12744	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12745	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 99(1). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. We expected that the President of the National Assembly would at least give one reminder to the previous speaker for insults, not only representatives of one parliamentary group, because it is now obviously a trick out of fear of mentioning that someone would not have the right to a replica, and then say - one MP group, and only not to draw an SRS - has already offended the entire National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, saying it was unthinked, speaking of "blah, blah" talking about how MPs read other people's texts, and that no one had responded in any way from here. No one writes texts to me, and it would be good if someone said they were telling you who someone else is writing texts to, not to make them smarter than those of whom they're certainly not smarter. As for one argument, which is constantly being used, I see already in an orchestrated campaign...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12746	You didn't get it, Mr. Wolfie, right on the line, but to call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12747	Mr. Martian, please allow me three minutes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as much as I have the right to present it. You didn't give your predecessor a warning, six and a half minutes while he was talking, no warning, so I'm asking you to have a little patience. In an orchestrated campaign, in which you are constantly talking about the price of this National Assembly or how much it costs, I won't remind you of Adolf Hitler, whose argument it was, I'll remind you of the SPS, it was their argument, I mean in the summer of 1995 or 1996, don't hold my hand when we got 75 kg of DS amendment. The same argument has been used and the same argument today is being used against those who, of course, are uncompared and with an incomparably smaller number of amendments against the lawlessness of the parliamentary majority. I would ask you not to use such an argument for the sake of the public in the future, because this is the most damaging to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and above all to those who use such an argument. And do not insult the Messengers of the people, and think, because you are a part of the majority, that you are better than those who are members of the minority, that you are smarter, that you are more educated or anything else. You will hardly convince anyone of this, hardly, so if you want to, even by school diplomas, and by the activities in this congregation, much less. And as for our activities, the activities of the opposition MPs, whether to chase or not, make a good Rules of Procedure -- no one can say a single word, everyone will come out and confess. When such a criminal proposal is made for a legal act, don't be surprised what we're going to try to do in every way to the public to show how criminal it is and how disastrous it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12748	I have not warned you, but I warn all the Members of the People that I will punish the first subsequent abuse of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as a distraction of the work of the National Assembly. You have the right to report to the Rules of Procedure and you have the right to explain in which you see a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you have no right to spend time replicating which you did not have the basis for. I warn all MPs that without warning, I will apply the Rules of Procedure in this way. Here you are, Mr. Ivkovic, I assume it's the same in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12749	Your Honor, Mr. President, you can choose Section 96. The Rules of Procedure, because in a negative context, the SPS is mentioned, and you can also treat it as a replica, if you like, I have both rights. Thank you very much. At the time of the SPS, when she had the majority in this assembly, all MPs could speak as literally as much as they wanted. All MPs could have submitted amendments. The most famous example was in 1996, when 1,270 amendments were submitted precisely in order to obstruct the adoption of laws on local self-government. In any case, I would also like to remind the previous speaker that the Rules of Procedure, which has brought most of the SPS, which is changing today, has predicted that every MP can speak twice in 10 minutes, that each MP can meet the wishes of his constituents, citizens, to submit amendments to submitted legislative projects and to discuss the amendment of each of his fellow Members. What's changing now, it's a different story, it's not about socialists, it's about the DSS. As for the different quality and approach in the submission of amendments, our people would say "to the saint and the troupe", which is what the proposal is, so are the amendments. Of course there are amendments that won't be voted by the SPS. In any case, I would ask the representatives of the SRS to leave the socialists alone in their statements, and to stop looking for the CIA, rather than to think more about themselves. It was a replica. (Alexander Vukic, from the site: SRS is mentioned in a negative context in the exhibition of Ivkovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12750	In Mr. Ivkovic's presentation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12751	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've said what the facts are. The previous speaker may not remember what was said in all the state media, the kind of hajka and campaign led against Serbian radicals in time, but it is not my particular goal to explain at this point. The citizens of Serbia remember everything there was to talk about, and no one disputed that the previous Rules of Procedure was an incomparably better, arpotically, we talked about it here, but it would be good if Mr. Ivkovic could explain to us what the CIA was talking about, what he was talking about, because no one from this pay phone mentioned to him, maybe he has some better or bigger experience, so he knows that. I don't know what it's about, it wouldn't be too burning to tell us what it's about, is it? It doesn't matter to us, and from this pay phone, we haven't told anyone about it or said anything. Perhaps Mr. Ivkovic knows what's going on here, who's been recruiting, but he doesn't need the National Assembly to burden him. No one from this pay phone told him anything like that. I just said that MPs of the Democratic Party have submitted over 1,000 amendments in time, 75 kilograms of amendments have been and that it was then spoken in the same way as today through all the means of public information that we will lose huge money, tens and hundreds of thousands of German marks, that this is the most terrible thing in the world, and today they are accusing us of having six times less amendments than they had in their time. I don't understand why Mr. Ivkovic got involved in all this, whether to defend the Democratic Party or the SPS, I don't know, but it would be good to think about who he decided to defend, and of course the previous Rules of Procedure was a beacon of democracy, this one right now, as a positive - legal act in relation to what is proposed, in relation to what is being brought. No one ever slowed it down and no one from the SRS slowed it down. As far as we're concerned, we have a lot of problems, we're faced with an orchestrated hickey, orchestrated campaign against the SRS. You could have noticed in the three daily papers exactly the same texts, except that the dot and the comma were not prescribed in the attack on the SRS, the weekly paper that you took, literally under the indig, written texts on the fourth or fifth sides of each newspaper, exactly from one center, as in Broz's time. I don't think it's been since 1988, like Broz's time, and then that's how it's done. These are our problems, but we'll solve them like many others because that's what the people are beginning to recognize. As for the internal problem, we don't have them, the more attacked we are, and the bigger the hack on Serbian radicals, the more homogeneous we are and the more unique we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12752	The People's Messenger Pal Shandor has the word, and after him, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12753	I'd just like to say two or three words very briefly, so I don't take up much of your time. I think that this Rules of Procedure, or these amendments of the Rules of Procedure, contain two cruel changes and should also aim at two circular directions. The first is the introduction of the Institute of Interpletion. So far in my business, even though I had submitted my first proposal for interpretation in this Rules of Procedure in 1991 with Mr. Micunovic, we did not have it. In 1994, the Socialists were close to it, some working variant and it existed, but in the last second they gave up. What DOS was capable and ready, all the changes made by the Rules of Procedure so far have not done, have not allowed MPs to intervene with the Government, or ministers, and I think it is very important. This is not only an opportunity for the opposition to control the government, but also for the government to be exposed to certain topics, if it orders from us an interpretation, which is the question of its assessment. Secondly, it is seen from a ten-year experience, the principle debate with the quorum is aimless and groundless, as it is born in such a tense political situation many conflicts. If the session, with Mr. Petkovic, I suggested it, we start the session with a quorum, and we continue the principle debate without quorum, corresponding to the total time and size of parliamentary groups, as is common in most of the world's parliaments, I could list that whole list, I think that these conflicts that we now have could be reduced to a good degree. Anyone would be able to say what they want, without interruptions, without breaking in with each other, and you would see how interested MPs really are to listen to what or those who are in a position to expose that day. In order not to constantly repeat this situation to go, as we have suggested, from the least to the largest parliamentary group, one order could be determined and continued from point to point, so that at each point, the second parliamentary group would be the first, which would win on our own equality. What I mean by that is that when we go through this experimental phase now, it needs to be changed in general and seriously done in respect of the world's rules of procedure. First of all, I mean, with a comparative experience of what it is and how it is in the world, and a serious group of people should sit down and make one other Rules of Procedure, because this is still the Rules of Procedure that keeps around the quorum and some of the solutions to the relapse from the past. We would now have to make a new concept of some Rules of Procedure that is more suited to the system and social order. First of all, I think he should be given a prominent position to strengthen the board's functions. This would reduce the sessions in plenary, the work of the Assembly would become more effective, and if the Committee's function would be much better expressed, even so far as it is in some parliaments that when voting, or setting up a government, ministers must necessarily appear before the committee of directors and become candidates for ministers only if they pass this so-called reception or control exam before a competent or parliamentary committee qualified. I think it would be good as a parliamentary practice in the future. We could think about that. Secondly, I think we need to make changes, and we need to sanction it with our rules of procedure, in the functioning of the electronic system that we now have. He's not capable of anything, just to register our vote. We have these units that are designed for microphones. A lot of time would be saved on the secretary if the MPs could speak for themselves, not go out. We've got other options that are possible. You should see what can be done. Next, the look of the hall we're sitting in is not parliamentary. You're going to say that these may be all random notes. Those who are in the opposition, in the minority, and I have often been there, had a parliamentary majority before them and had a president who was also from the parliamentary majority and then MPs were between hammers and anvils. (President: Time. That's psychologically not good. Our hall carries relapses of communism, one party arrangement, when there was no one, where and how they sat, when they were all on the same side. Therefore, the parliamentary hall must look different, and this rules of procedure should be arranged differently. You'll say it's insignificant what I'm saying, and I think it's essential. Let's say, look at the Halls in the Federal Assembly. They're also mentally different from our own joke. Fourthly, our new Rules of Procedure, which is behind this needs to be done more studioically, would have to find an answer to how to prevent parliamentary obstruction without it going to the heart of democracy. (President: Please bring the end. I think that's the basic question. He would have to be harsh to all the wrongdoers, to all those who have been embroiled by defiance of their dealings with their colleagues or making a mess.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12754	The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, and then by the MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12755	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Proposer of the Change of Rules has proposed that this Parliament works effectively, works fruitfully. This means that everything that has been imagined in this House is done in a civilized way. But he called this parliament a circus. I agree that this House is a circus. You see, on Thursday, three hours and 47 minutes could not find a quorum in this House and could not begin the assembly's work. As far as the circus is concerned, Serbia is the podium on which circus operations are performed. Just look, from April to today, because the main actors in this circus are actually the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. They've been running a duel between each other for months, fighting. You can only open one newspaper you will see - on the first page is usually Mr. Djindjic, and on the second is Mr. Kostunica. (President: Please talk about what is on the agenda. ) As far as this Rules of Procedure is concerned, the Proposer wants this Serbia to be a host Serbia, but he did not mention what is most important -- that this host Serbia, which he wants, is composed of poor, hungry and poor. As serious as this proposal is, so are the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look today, you'll see that the miner strike is in Kolubara and Kostolc. DOS said it was a political strike, and what was last year, it was a social strike. (President: Mr. Zivanovic, I warn you the second time. They certainly don't strike for the Rules of Procedure. Please talk about what's on the agenda. ) It would be good if it were a political strike today, however, it is, in fact, a social strike. People want theirs, what they've earned. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of discussing here the issues that are most important today, and this is about Kosovo and Metohija, about elections, about the standard of living that awaits us in the period ahead, and we are expecting a winter where there will be no heating, in which people will not receive salaries, because factories are under your authority... Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the interpretation is concerned, I agree with you because it was necessary to include everyone, not 50, but 250 MPs. For what? Because if you look at many of those MPs sitting here, many are presidents in their municipalities, many are members of various committees, many are presidents of some committees. In fact, you're sitting here just to wash your positions. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as impelation is concerned, it would be a good idea to call on the first hundred days of the government, where you said, we're not going to say, "We promised," but we're going to say, "We did." So you said political stability. That's what you lied about. (President: Time. Please say at least one sentence of what you've come forward for in this excess. I've reported to the Rules of Procedure. Your rules of procedure, the sparrows on the branch, it's no good. I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12756	The People's MP Dragan Jovanovic has the word, followed by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12757	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been discussing the Rules of Procedure for the fifth day. I don't think the citizens of Serbia deserve it. However, Serbian citizens must know that the main credit for this is borne by the draft agenda and by the legislator, who, past the Rules of Procedure, put the rules of procedure in the first regular session. I'll say a few words about the rules of procedure. It is difficult to find in the near past a smaller text through which greater dual morality, greater hypocrisy, and, through explanations, a greater substitute for thesis in an attempt to explain something and defend something that cannot be defended. Why am I talking about double morale? Fifteen - twenty MPs read the stenograms from earlier sessions of parliaments, where the pronounist of this Rules of Procedure, the Democratic Party of Serbia, asked for a complete removal of the restrictions on the duration of the MP's speech, where for the Rules of Procedure, in which 20 minutes each MP, Mr Jocic, Mr Kostunica, Mr Batic, who was a member of the Democratic Party, said it was the twilight of parliamentaryism, that it was a fig leaf of democracy. Today, they face parliament with a Rules of Procedure, which, at point 4, allows Serbian Socialist Party MPs to speak for 47 seconds. Is that, ladies and gentlemen, a double morale? They still say it's a democratic Rules of Procedure, a Rules of Procedure that gives great rights to the opposition. It wouldn't have been a double morale if they had said -- ladies and gentlemen, MPs when we were opposition, we thought we needed parliament, we needed democracy, and today when we saw in power that parliament was too high, that democracy was too high, that Serbia didn't need opposition, that it was impertinent, that it was so bold that it wanted to tell the truth, that it was so bold that it wanted to criticise bad laws. Ladies and gentlemen, the explanation we heard from Mr. Michael is extremely hypocritical, in all forms. A stenogram says the rules of procedure have been proposed that MPs cannot speak and that Serbian citizens live better. Ladies and gentlemen, if Serbia's citizens will live better if the opposition MPs cannot speak in parliament, I suggest we cut off the language for all MPs, but Serbia's citizens do not live badly because of the opposition's speech in parliament, they live much worse than before because of bad authority. When we talk about replacing the thesis, the promoter tries to explain through explanations that with a terrible replacement, the thesis defends the rules of procedure. He's talking about obstruction, ladies and gentlemen, he's talking about efficiency. By chance, or on purpose, I looked at this assembly, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of my work I have had 39 interruptions due to the lack of quorum due to the lack of MPs of the ruling party. For hundreds of hours, this congregation discussed agenda points, which were proposed by the current government, and had nothing to do with any laws. These are completely trivial points, from how the work of these aunts in the congregation will be organized, to some of the more insignificant. This congregation lost hundreds of hours because of ill - prepared laws and those that were real laws, and they were so badly prepared that they had to be responded to. This is due to the great nepotism in the congregation, coming along the family line, not the line of knowledge. What particularly bothers the chairman, the president of the assembly, is that he is trying to make this debate unserious. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on every act is as serious as the act itself. This is about an extremely unserious act for which amendments by MPs are trying to show how pointless it is. If the time of speech is limited to 47 seconds, it is not unserious of the MPs if he makes the motion to hold the debate for 9 seconds. If MPs are fined, past the Constitution and the law, it is not unserious if someone suggests that MPs kneel in the corner or begin the assembly. It's just an attempt to show Serbian citizens how pointless the proposals are. The main objective of this Rules of Procedure is, and that must be clearly said, to prevent opposition MPs from speaking. If a Socialist Party MP can speak for 47 seconds, and a Serbian Radical Party MP minutes and ten seconds what it is, rather than preventing MPs from speaking. It is a dangerous thesis to replace MPs' groups. It may be in constitutional solutions written by the head of the Democratic Party of Serbia, but today he is an MP of the assembly's work. The assembly has 250 MPs who have the uncut right to speak, and there are X parliamentary groups who will appear as amoebe. So I would suggest that this Rules of Procedure be withdrawn. Let it be a small celebration of October 5th, and let it appear before this congregation with serious laws, which will enable this nation to live better.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12758	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, followed by Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12759	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed by the Democratic Party of Serbia, does not deserve a serious debate in this parliament. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia had resolved at least the biggest problems in the past, the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, economic problems, economic problems, social problems, it might be an understanding of one such act, that MPs have a little fun, to relax after hard work. However, the government of the Republic of Serbia has done nothing in the past, at least nothing serious, anything that could have brought prosperity and progress in this country. Nevertheless, the Democratic Party of Serbia comes out here with a proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure, with a restrictive and non-democratic proposal. The head of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, on behalf of the proposings, said here in his statement that the proposal aims to speed up reforms in Serbia, that it is because of the Rules of Procedure and because of obstruction by a parliamentary group that reforms are in Serbia. I would remind the public in Serbia that we had been resting for two months during the summer, that during this period MPs had received nothing from the material, from legislative projects and draft laws, except for proposals for the selection of judges and prosecutors, which were delivered on several occasions to MPs, so withdrawn, etc. No serious bill has reached the MPs and has entered the assembly procedure. Therefore, we must understand, both here and the public, that the obstruction of parliament's work is not being made by the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party or the opposition. Parliament's obstruction is being made by members of the ruling coalition. If we here several times a day are taking a break because of the quorum, if in the 176-seat assembly hall, the ruling coalition sits at a maximum of 100 or less than 100 at any moment, then it is clear and should be clear to everyone in this Serbia who is obstructing parliament. I understand the MPs of the DOS that they do not have time for parliament, as the majority of DOS MPs are presidents of the assembly of municipalities, presidents of executive committees, directors of public and other enterprises or other functions. They simply cannot successfully perform all these tasks and functions and I understand them from that aspect. However, this is the DOS problem and DOS has to solve this problem, it simply has to relieve these people, it has to find new people, divide these functions into more people and secure the quorum in this parliament. Therefore, the obstruction of parliament is, in fact, representatives of the ruling coalition, because they are permanently not present in this room and thus hinder successful work. It is unserious to say that obstruction is being made by Serbian Radical Party MPs, if everyone in this Serbia knows that the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party are the most active and most engaged in parliament's work. The largest number of amendments so far, serious amendments, amendments aimed at repairing all legal projects that were on the agenda here, came just from Serbian radicals. The largest number of discussions is from Serbian radicals. All these discussions were serious and with a view to improving all projects that were submitted to the Assembly, to reach the best and optimal solutions at this time. What you call obstruction is on your soul. The draft Rules of Procedure, which is ahead of us, I'm just going to brief a few things that the public has already heard, is so restrictive that it doesn't deserve serious debate and serious attention. It is unserious to ask MPs in parliament not to read their speeches. Unseriously, it is if we have the fact that the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Dr Vojislav Kostunica, reads a three-story speech in which he invites citizens to flee from Kosovo and Metohija to register. Unserious is now expected from MPs in the Serbian Parliament, who have different educational levels, not to read speeches, while the president of the federal state, a politician with a deep political internship, a doctor of science, reads his speech. It is unserious to punish MPs for any reminder issued by the President of the Assembly, and we do not know on the basis of which criteria they are expressed and at which point they will give notice, whether according to their mood or other criteria. It's all inconclusive, so I suggest that the Proposer withdraw this Rules of Procedure, that we no longer be ashamed and that we do not make a circus in this assembly. In light of such a proposal, so restrictive, it seems to me that the epithet is more dictative than democratic, so I suggest that the proposal to change the name of the party (in agreement with what I said), means that it is no longer called the Democratic Party of Serbia, and at the same time, I would like to note that in this case, it will remain a short DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12760	The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic and then by Bozidar Vucurović.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why is this item and this agenda set before us today, that is, these days? Do the citizens know what you're doing? He doesn't know most of them. That's why we're here to get off this phone booth, which is all we have left to point to. Imagine what we as the Serbian Radical Party could say to you and the people that you and these new rules do not shorten not only time, but you also suggest a new democracy called - shut up, shut up, just shut up and shut up. It's a common folk language that tells the conclusion of your famous new rules of procedure. How do you plan to proceed with democratic change? In this way, that the MP cannot express his view, that is, his view of all the legal projects that should be, in your opinion, urgently springing, only pro-forming. Didn't your instructors, who gave you instructions, have in their hands this proposal that you put on the agenda so quickly? You're afraid of the truth and all your ministers are afraid of the truth they need to hear. That truth will be stopped by this new rule of law. That's your basic idea. This truth looks like this: Mr. Vesenov should make an account for our peasants from item to item, from spring sowing to harvest autumn, and not to behave arrogantly; imagine DOS and DOS Chanka, who defends peasants from Veselinov, that is ridiculous; then Gašo Knezevic, can not launch reforms as a minister in education and education.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12762	We're still not applying impellation, so please speak as an MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12763	Is our school supposed to be an American guy? Our intellectuals know exactly what that means. It's a decommissioning of our quality and the introduction of new forms, which have nothing to do with our society or our system of work. Then, Minister Mihajlovic of his portfolio should give many answers to his own questions, which is: the mafia at all levels, killings, courting America. As radicals, we prepared a book for Mihajlovic with introduction, development and conclusions. Now, here lies the answer that the Rules of Procedure we're talking about today puts under a new kind of control. You swear that you are European-oriented, that all legal proposals are in line with the European Community and some of your own, according to you imaginary institutions. Can those who gave you instructions pull the parallel so that something like this can be assumed in their countries too. I think this proposal should be withdrawn and let MPs be creative, so that they can influence all projects that are put on the agenda. It's only the help of the government and the people who propose laws. They will receive more information and suggestions from the base, and that information can be built in, that is, elaborate and democratically make decisions. Since you, as the current government, are solving all money, so is your proposal for a new Rules of Procedure that the President of the Assembly solves it from his place, and that is not in line with the democratic principles that have been broken down long before us who are here today discussing this. I don't think a sentence is good. Why does the President of the Assembly have that fundamental right? This is not in line with the norms of democratic principles and behaviour. It is evident that the president of Skuštin in the previous period, especially lately, shows that he hates Serbian radicals. He can't hide it, he can't deny it. He insults us at every step of the way and after every outing for this pay phone of our MPs he acts as an inspector. There are many more difficult problems that could have been put on this parliament's agenda, but this has not been done. The people are asking for that answer. Where are your promises of a better life? There are no more promises on paper, no more pictures, and that paper and pictures are newspapers and your means of information. Why doesn't the president have the same archaics for all MPs? Let him answer that question, but not to me, but to our people. The proposed Rules of Procedure are so negative that the Proposer will probably take it off the agenda now, after these comments. Our amendments are just a commentary on such an unserious proposal for a new Rules of Procedure. Will you also regulate in article 98 that the speaker cannot read his thought, or express himself in a free manner? Well, that's nowhere in the world. Is that a diaper for some new democracy? Will this new draft Rules of Procedure allow the Assembly to function? It has nothing to do with getting the sessions in order. If someone else were in that chair thinking differently, probably not even this Rules of Procedure would be on the agenda. In the end, I will just conclude - this proposal for a new rules of procedure is directed against the work of the Serbian Radical Party in the Assembly, because only we want to point not only to the DOS government, but to everyone about all the people's negative projects. Is it the government that rules now, not the laws, that's how it's supposed to work? Do you think there's still war here, natural disasters and what's causing the regulations? No more war, no more natural disasters. You are the greatest elemental disaster that has happened to our people. Why do you go into the world and pretend to be benefactors, nobles, and you rule regulations? There are no more comments. Why didn't you also install criminal measures into your new rules of procedure for the DOS majority, because you had no quorum in your continuum one day? And the people see it and know it, the cameras reveal you when you run into the hall, or when you wait for the quorum to be filled. On Thursday, October 4, when the Assembly met, you were unable to secure the quorum all day long. That day, you did not inform the public why the assembly was interrupted. It is mostly in the space of impact in the means of informing the carrying of Serbian radicals from the assembly hall. Think carefully about this method of work that doesn't suit you, or -- maybe it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12764	The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Vucurović, and then Božidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12765	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the country is failing, workers strike, people can't eat, the grandmother combs wool, and the famous legalist party submits to adoption, imagine how important, the document - changes and additions of the Rules of Procedure, are lascivious of the proposal and the importance, both in urgency and in content. And, then, this famous legalist party is not always well-informed, and often misinformed, expressing its amazement and disdain over amendments that they say represent a lardy. Of course they're a joke. On a far-reaching proposal - unserious amendments. Who in their right mind can make serious amendments on a proposal like this to the Rules of Procedure. Serious amendments and a serious discussion are reserved for serious legislative proposals, which this parliament should adopt and adopt. Were there any non-serious amendments to the Privatization Act? Of course not. Everyone was justified and everyone could immediately become an integral part of that bill. Even those laws that went directly to the harm of some categories of children, employees, social cases, all the amendments that were submitted went towards correcting the bill and making it better and more appropriate. This proposal for a Rules of Procedure is irreparable, unserious and undemocratic and as such deserves every amendment aimed at making fun of it. The famous legalist party that filed it has shown what laws it would bring if, God forbid, it were in power. Economism and efficiency are concepts for it that are not very well understood. If there's no law, except for this one that you can't put on the agenda because of the unions, there's no congregation procedure, it means that you're artificially unnecessaryly costing taxpayers. Let your famous experts calculate how many citizens of Serbia cost this exhibition of yours. It's not a problem that this proposal is catastrophic, the problem is that it defends itself with false data. If there are eight members of the Constitution who are directly in breach of this proposal by the Rules of Procedure, and a representative of the Proposer comes out and says that it is not true, that they are not broken, then let him go out and read the members of the Constitution that have been advertised these days by the MPs, so that the citizens hear what these are members who are restricting by the Constitution guaranteed the rights of the Members of the People's Parliaments. Another lie is that it is made on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of European Parliaments. Here are these Rules of Procedures: (shows the texts) here are the English, here is the European Parliament, here is the interparliamentary union, here is the German, imagine here is the Albanian, here is the Filipino. Filipino is very undemocratic, he limits the discussion to the MP for an hour. The closest one to ours is Albanian, which limits the duration of the discussion to 10 minutes. But you have even managed to shorten the rules of procedure of the Albanian parliament. Congratulations, Hans Hekerup, as Mr. Vukic said, will be very pleased with this proposal from the Rules of Procedure. Serbian citizens want those people they chose to speak here. This institution is therefore called parliament. You have made a mistake if you think that you will make these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of this House a synergy. In time, you should have warned DOS MPs, who spoke here for six and a half minutes, not me, who mostly moves within the limits of my permission. By not doing so, you show that you are the primary generator and catalyst of this kind of behavior in the National Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12766	Mr. Vukurovich, can you give me those rules of procedure you mentioned earlier? The People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12767	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are a dozen reasons why you, MPs of the DOS, must, I repeat, vote this motion for a decision. Also, there are a number of reasons why I, as an SRS MP, will not and do not have to vote in favour of the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. I will try to give you at least a few of these reasons, and that, gentlemen of the People's Parliament of the DOS, convince you what you must, why you must do so, all by believing that you will listen to me and vote in favour of this decision. The first reason, this proposal for a decision on amendments to the Rules of Procedure, is that you, Mr. MPs of the DOS, must vote because it is counter-constitutional. It shall be against at least Articles 22, 23, 76 and 77. Since in continuity, here you have been in violation of the Constitution for 10 months, and especially with the people of the hated regulations that you have convinced the people that they are no good, and you have made them more than any government before, here is a unique opportunity for you, and you, MPs from the DOS, should take advantage of it, and therefore you must, I repeat, and indeed you must vote on such a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. Because the proposal for this decision is against me as an SRS MP I will vote against. Second reason, I'll repeat again, you're breaking the Constitution. Gentlemen of the DOS, you're breaking it all the time. What's wrong with that? Well, it's no good in the Constitution. Normally, you'll change it, you're going to change the Constitution. The draft constitution is written by a fellow president of the DSS and... (President: Please be careful what expressions you use. )......................................................................................................... a friend of the President of the SRJ. God, he's writing it, and believe me, it's not about Mira. About the story of legalism, about democracy, about the consistent respect of institutions some other time, which is why you, Mr. MPs from DOS, simply have to vote like this. Of course, as an SRS MP, since I respect the Constitution and as long as you don't change it, I will vote against the motion for this decision. The third reason, as signatories of the DSS's draft decision, has not been signed by four members of the DSS. Two of them, moreover, have tabled amendments to the draft decision, amendments to their party counterparts' proposal. What's interesting about that? They're both lawyers. That's Mr. Jocic and Mr. Budishin. They're both lawyers, and that's what they think of the proposal for a decision from their party colleagues. They're submitting amendments to what's wrong, and what the DSS gave is wrong. The third here, at this pay phone, said there were moral reasons and dilemmas that he didn't sign. I believe he still has them. One of the signatories of this decision the other day after this speaker said that, perhaps, this proposal should be tempered a little bit. He's signing, you suggested, and now he sees that maybe a little bit should be tempered. Gentlemen of the DOS, you see what this proposal is and who is proposing it all. So much for how good he is. As an SRS MP, I have no moral dilemmas at all, as one of those who could sign it, I don't have any political ones, the motion for a decision is bad and I will vote against it. I am against the decision because the decision is restrictive, non-democratic and extremely rigid towards the MPs. The provisions of the Proposal to the Members of the People are abolishing the possibility of being Members of the People and working as MPs, giving them half a minute to speak, taking away their ability to replicate and impose fines on them. The fourth reason, perhaps most convincing, is time for you DOS MPs to finally meet the coalition partners in DOS and the signatories of the draft decision, the DSS MPs. They've been getting angry all the time, they're always angry, they're always offended, and if you've already pulled them out of the executive office, if you'd like to, and they can't say what they wanted to say about this phone booth, that the Chancellor's wife is trading with the fertilizer, so, let's vote them out of this incoherent decision, they don't ask for much, and maybe they don't even ask for it. As an SRS MP, I will vote against the motions of this decision because it is against the constitution, and, gentlemen of the MPs of the DOS, you vote yes, precisely because it is anti-constitutional.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12768	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12769	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when a political party, in this case the coalition, does not have a serious programme, serious programming principles or definitions, then this party, in this case the DSS, together with the DOS coalition, approaches improvisation. Improvisation is a method used by the DOS coalition, it can literally be said, since coming to power. When there's no real legal proposal, when there's no right to a solution in the executive government, then he starts improvising. This is done for some cheap daily political points, in order to give the people the knowledge -- well, the DOS coalition is working very hard, and at the head of the coalition, in this case, the DSS, except that their efforts, their work, are hindering the opposition in parliament. Improvisation always, as a rule, in every business, and especially in politics, has disastrous consequences. The consequences of these moves, which the DOS executive authority has drawn, are already known, clear. People feel them and how they feel on their backs. What it does in the legislative body, as the National Assembly wants to challenge the reaction, such that Serbia is plagued by the suffering, that Serbia is ruled by silence, that no one has the right in Serbia to say a single word to everything the DOS does. What is the solution when Serbia is forced by silence, when a person takes away a word from Serbia, and in this case clearly wants to do DSS, in front of DOS, then that same Serbia, through its opposition, must speak what it thinks in the streets, in the squares. And when Serbia goes to the streets, to the squares, no one can predict what the results will be. The DOS obviously cares about taking away a word from every opposition party MP, especially the MPs of the SRS. Why is it that the radicals are most intruding to them, because the radicals warn them of all that they do and do wrong. That's why DOS cares about taking away the word from radicals, but it can't, nor could it ever take away a word in this Serbia. Serbia has always spoken, said what it thinks, whether in houses, whether in the streets, whether in the squares, but the last word, the last voice of Serbia has always been painful for those who have introduced tyranny. We, the Serbian Radicals, no matter how much you think and want to use these restrictive additions of Rules of Procedure and Repressive Measures to prevent us from speaking for this speaker, we will not give up, we will fight as an opposition party to tell you not only what we think, but to convey to you the opinion and thinking of the people about you. Persuasion by system and by principle -- this is temporary, which from day to day, from hour repeats the president of this assembly, somehow comes down to what is simplified: the president teaches us how many is two times two. President, it's always been four, except in two cases-- when you're right of four, then it's forty, and if the party president who's proposing this act to the right of you, then there's a four in you, and stop distracting us MPs once. You can't take such cheap moves to gain the will of a part of the citizens by saying -- here we are, those who want reforms in Serbia, just don't give us our coalition partners, and from earlier on your story is known -- they don't give you Serbian radicals. You can't do any reforms, you're going with a replacement. When you see that you have no real evidence, arguments to accuse your coalition partners, then you begin to carry out your will in this assembly. What your goal is -- your goal is to let the people know that you and the rest of the DOS have nothing, in order to end up dividing Serbia. A part of Serbia to vote for you, who are innocent and honest, and another part of Serbia to vote for the rest of the DOS. The people have seen through your intentions, and you cannot, with such restrictive and repressive measures, prevent Serbia from speaking from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12770	The word has a People's MP, Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12771	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, honourable fellow MPs, you know, I've always wondered -- how the opposition felt in this House, what it is that in most of their performances it brings them to a state that they feel like they're in hell. Maybe the definition of hell itself answers that. Namely, those who believe that there is this hell that the unfortunate souls that are there have the power to create unpleasant and ugly forms, and are actually forced to suffer from the very forms that are created. In an attempt to avoid some of their own rules, they couldn't convince me to feel differently. It seemed more like these gentlemen were busy with themselves, and it also says that the actions of those who are busy with themselves don't seem to have any chance of success. Talking about good things isn't the same as doing good. It would be like saying the word "caramela" and "eat caramel." Of course, we are not glad to find ourselves in that position. We would have been much better off if the wise before us, who were in power, had come up with laws that would allow us today to simply avoid opposition from those we cannot easily understand. Their wishes, their great desires, are a special problem for this House. Gete said that man's wishes are a reflection of his abilities, sometimes true candlesticks of what they're capable of doing. However, by looking at you with such strong desires, those very desires seem quite tromical. I have the impression that the legs are no longer holding them well, and most importantly, there are other desires, and wishes have a chance of what Gete said - only if there are no other desires behind them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12772	Mr. Huric, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12773	Here, I'm just about to say one more thought and make my point on this proposal. A man is always between an angel and an animal. For an angel has a mind, and has no desire and no anger; an animal has no mind, and has desires and anger; a man sometimes has both. You know, then when he's able to subdue his desires and anger to his mind, then he's above the angels. Then when, then, wishes and his anger capture his mind, then it's below the level of the animal. So, gentlemen, I don't want to believe that Spinozino when he said we were all after our own being. I want to believe your amendments don't belong to your being. Why the amendment to destroy the opposition, i.e. to create a committee on the destruction of the opposition. Wasn't that board created already? What was a year and a month before September 23rd, what did the people do with their vote? Or, if you consider that committee not created, by this obstruction of yours, you will surely destroy yourself and there will be no need to create such a committee. (President: Time. ) And to say in the end: the Sandzak Democratic Party will, having all this in mind, vote in favour of the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We're not doing this because we're too happy about this. We believe that this is an emergency, that it is necessary for this high house to return to what it is intended to be, so that the laws that are in the general interest of all the citizens of this country are passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12774	The People's Messenger Dragan Jocic has the word, and after him the People's Messenger, George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several times over the past few days, my name and discussion from 1994 has been mentioned by the Socialist Party MPs. In 1994, the Socialist Party went towards the restrictions of the Rules of Procedure in December. At that time, I was saying this: that both the Socialist Party president and its summit wanted to establish a democratic regime without competing parties. I said they wanted democracy as a mere label, to prevent and prevent anything that showed a different opinion. I was saying that in this, above all specific historical moment, political dictatorship was covered up. In 1994, the year that fell into the saddest decade of our people, in a decade and at a time when it was crushed, crumbling, stretching and selling everything that was Serbian, both in Serbia and outside of it. It was done by the president of the Socialist Party then and the political summit. Why was this needed then, and why was every question from 1994 to 2000 national, then why was it necessary to narrow down the right to the word? It was necessary not to know, and these were major historical moments and major historical events that had to top the Socialist Party to cover up. So it wasn't parliamentary work, such as today's issue and the subject of these changes and additions. The object was something else entirely. At that time, in 1994, the Serbian regime raised fences towards its brothers. It shouldn't have been known to speak publicly, that's what it was. However, it was expected and it was the task of the policy of many more bad things to be done, which should not and should not be spoken of at that time by this speaker. Let's just remind ourselves of 1995, the fall of Krajina, the fall of Western Slavonia, the fall of the western part of Republika Srpska, the Dayton Agreement, remember the electoral thefts and remember the Albanian issue. These are national issues that most of the Socialist Party at the time should not have been allowed to talk. That's the living truth. The way it was then narrowed down and the reason it narrowed down was that no serious national question before this parliament was opened. That was the reason they shut down the transmission. Those who know here, and there was the DSS, there was the DSS, there was the SRS, the majority at the time not only allowed to speak, but to lead and to put a serious debate on the agenda. That was why I spoke like this, because they were current and vital issues of state and national interest. Someone said at the time that the President of the Assembly worked and worked for this pay phone behind me with a measure. Yes, at the time Tomic worked with a measure, but he knew that he had ahead of him a sacrifice of the Socialist Party's votes, which would vote any positive criticism or anything that would say about the country's future. But the opposition at the time was the same as the measure. At that time, we were not offended, ministers did not spit, colleagues did not spit. The Democratic Party, and by completing this recapitulation of the situation, and then as it is now, it remains principled. The principle was even then and now the protection of goodwill. Simply, the Democratic Party of Serbia's reaction to something called torture, then tortures the majority, which simply allowed nothing in parliament or in the media, or in any city of Serbia. And now, the principle is the same, it's a minority torture. No one can claim enough rights to violate other people's rights. The rights of an individual MP cannot be absolute, as if there were nothing but that right of MPs. They have to face each other somewhere, hide with the rights of others. That's what we need to find a measure. That's when I said one more sentence, and I'm going to finish it, I said the word is like water, the tighter you tighten it, the more pressure it gets, the more it always passes and finds the pore. However, that was true of words. What is happening today in the Serbian Parliament, these are ugly gestures that do not actually allow it to pass something that is the legal proposal of the majority, which is legitimate and legitimate obstruction, but that this assembly does not exist at all and does not work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12776	Replica, then Mr. Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12777	Dear fellow Members, the basis for notification is Article 96, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly - right on behalf of the parliamentary group. In fact, here we have now witnessed a failed attempt by fellow MP Jocic to justify something that cannot be justified, that in a period of seven years he has so radically changed his mind about the same thing, which is called the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the rights that this Rules of Procedure gives to Members of the People, of course based on the Constitution. This attempt to cover up some data related to the general situation in 1994 is not logical, as this too shows the situation from 1994 was given in an extremely subjective way from the point of view and from the point of view of the party to which Mr Jocic and then and today belong. It was mentioned in 1994, and it was not mentioned that we had been under UN sanctions for two years. It should be recalled that the sanctions were imposed on May 31st 1992, that for two years already there was some raging civil war in both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, that for two years the columns of refugees had been coming to Serbia, several hundred thousand people, that for two years already, the regime of the then-democrats had been helping its brothers on the other side of the Drina, and what is the essence? It's a story that belongs objectively to the past and historians will give their judgment on the story. We Socialists have no reason to take any of our moves, related to the state policy that was then led and for the help we have then provided to our brothers in other parts of the former Yugoslavia, we have no reason to be ashamed. On the contrary, we are proud of it. Anyone who thinks differently, say the arguments and let them give the data. Here's the story of the Rules of Procedure. Taitzv. The non-democratic Rules of Procedure gave every MP the right to speak for 10 minutes. The workman gave all MPs the right to speak 2,500 minutes of unspeakable agenda. Consider some law. The current proposal from the party, which is also a member of Mr Jocic, gives the right to speak about some 300 minutes' agenda, 5 hours. Please, 42 hours and 5 hours - what kind of democracy is this? At a time when we were making the congregation majority, the member of parliament had the right to submit an amendment to any member of the law. (President: Time. ) The Democratic Party, as one of the opposition's parties at the time, gave 1,300 amendments under one law in 1997. Guys, what are you talking about? Say it loud and clear - we want to prevent the opposition from speaking in the National Assembly, we want to prevent the opposition from making its proposals on some law, we want to prevent the opposition from being able to quality and qualified to criticise some law. Call things your name. Why are you afraid of that? You're talking efficiency, you're making other arguments. You talk about obstruction, you make other arguments. The Parliament's awareness of what you're bringing it to means abolishing democracy in Serbia. But it's your right. And it's right for us, out of the opposition's order, to criticize. The citizens will understand both, so your efforts to abolish democracy and end the opposition will be rewarded safely and quality in the next elections. And it won't be long till the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12778	Mr. Michael, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12779	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to compare the situation behind us with that which we now have and to pull the parallel between the high standard of democratic rights, which you have guaranteed to the citizens in terms of water cannons, tear gas, beatings, beating students, arrests, harassment, closing the media. It's really hard to reach those high standards. I guarantee our citizens that we will never try to make those high standards of democratic order that we have achieved. There our citizens can be safe, and you are almost certain that you will remain the only one in history who has served in Serbia with these democratic means, so that in this direction we will not respect you at all, and we will not talk about this period as a period of great, high democratic achievements. This is certainly the fact that these high democratic achievements and the abolition of direct TV transmissions, which we will never end. That is also true of the way you put those 1,200 amendments or how you voted on them - by grouping them, and then all the amendments on certain points of the agenda together discussed and decided. That's how you treated those amendments. You broke the Rules of Procedure, there was no direct TV transmissions, there was nothing. Let us ask ourselves how many sessions were held while you had your president, how many agenda points were there and how many working days did this assembly have, while you ruled this country over Serbia, and how many laws did you change and pass? It's all about the fact that you were talking, you were writing, you were writing, and the third was working. It's high time to stop that practice. We're going to do what we write, we're not going to think one thing, we're going to write another, we're going to do the third thing. We have nothing to talk about with you about these democratic achievements.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12780	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12781	Once again we had a chance to hear, not to use ugly words, a few ugly sentences that had nothing to do with content. The president of the DSS parliamentary group has made no effort at all to explain the current draft rules of procedure, which the Assembly has been discussing for several days. The president of the parliamentary group didn't bother to tell us what the efficiency of the new Rules of Procedure is, what does it look like when MPs' rights are violated, or the possibility of speaking on the basis of the Constitution, what are those solutions that give the possibility that the MP can't say what he wants, what kind of Rules of Procedure that introduces fines, what kind of Rules of Procedure that don't give the MP the right to submit an amendment? It's a great voice. () Of course, it is excellent, but then it is not called a Rules of Procedure that guarantees efficiency and prevents obstruction, but is called a Rules of Procedure that prevents the opposition from speaking in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Guys, look, compared to the words you said a few years ago and what you're doing right now, the situation is completely reversed. You can do it, and you don't have to admit it, but you can see it. You can't read a single line about congregation work in the media. You have to ask yourself a question, why is that? The media control, which exists, practically leaves the Assembly as the only local to hear a critical word from any MP. Then you must understand us, the MPs of the opposition, when we want to go out and say what we think about some bill. But it's not on the agenda. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly are on the agenda. So, the greatest act in this assembly regarding the rights of MPs. Unfortunately, from the chairman of the DSS parliamentary group, we have not heard any arguments in favour of the need for this businessman to improve parliament's work, in favour of improving the work of MPs. We've heard qualifications related to the past tense. Mr. Michael, today is October 8, 2001. It's been a year since the October events. You cannot, not because of us, honor us, but we will answer and disprove ourselves, but because of the citizens of Serbia, you can no longer use rhetoric and those things that were related to the past. We paid our political price to the government last year in the elections. If you think that the current situation, this decline in living standards, and all of this can be explained over and over again by that story, go ahead. I don't think the citizens of Serbia believe that anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12782	The People's Messenger Djordje Mamula has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Tomislav Kitanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12783	Such a parliament, such as the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. It is true that this proposal limits the rights of MPs, but does not make any discrimination. Those who so far because of their status in parliament, as speaker of the assembly, the president of the parliamentary group, a member of the government, will have privileges from now on. The goal is to increase the efficiency of work. The 1994 Businesswoman is completely pointless. What did the Rules of Procedure bring to Serbia? What laws were passed - for the sake of a more durable life, with such members of the Assembly, before and after 1994 - Unkovic, Bakocevic, Arangelovic, Tomic. Why didn't you propose them to be ambassadors, to remember those great days? There were remarks that the privatisation board was late as a proposal. Well, ten years of privatisation takes ten years in Serbia. Why didn't you propose a privatisation committee for ten years? So you don't see the privatization running. What are you looking at? Like, you're surprised. You knew what that privatisation looked like. (President): Please calm down a bit. Stop throwing. ( ) As far as reading is concerned, I think that observation is fully established. Indeed, it should remain the right for the speaker to read the talk, especially because of those people they write to. That's why you should leave the right to read. The sanctions that are proposed are nothing new. You shouldn't be surprised. These ideas exist in the European Rules of Procedure. Football is played here according to the rules of the European Football Federation, and when it comes to proposing a Rules of Procedure from Europe, that's not right. As for some MPs who connected the rules of procedure, intelligence and ignorance, to inform you that the former president was well informed last year, he would not have called the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12784	The People's Messenger Tomislav Kitanović has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Radomir Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12785	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, after President Vojislav Kostunica's convincing victory in the elections and after winning the election list he was wearing, there was a change in power in Serbia. By taking over the institutions of the system, we haven't introduced new ones, as you wanted to say some revolutionary congregations, revolutionary laws. We've taken over the institutions of the coffee system they used to be. We took over the congregation as it was. What was that congregation like? The assembly was one club for fun and entertainment. The congregation was everything but what it was meant to be. She wasn't in the Constitution, she wasn't in the law. Those things were moved elsewhere. These things were moved to certain cabinets, with certain individuals, resolved by regulations, in some other places, in some villas. The congregation dealt with itself. That is why such a congregation needed one of the rules of procedure, as it was at that time, which was only meant to regulate these human relationships. The congregation was comfortable, so it wasn't about what it was supposed to be. The MPs felt casually, made one host atmosphere, went out, made themselves comfortable and began to deal with personal problems and petty bickering. They also needed a Rules of Procedure to regulate the work of such a congregation, and we need a Rules of Procedure to regulate a whole new congregation, another congregation, a congregation that will deal with what needs to be done. The assembly will be the most legislative body of this country. That is why it is necessary that this rules of procedure be changed and that is why it is necessary that we change it, no matter how many times it is necessary for it to be in order. There's been a switch on why we're changing the Rules of Procedure when we've done it once before, several times. We haven't changed it a few times, we've only changed it once. It should be replaced until this Rules of Procedure puts this congregation in office to do what needs to be done and to deal with what needs to be done. This proposal to change the Rules of Procedure is primarily affirmative. He's affirmative of those things where he puts himself into the function of what the Assembly needs to deal with. He is restrictive, but he is restrictive for certain things that are beyond all civilizational standards of behavior, and for what the Assembly should deal with he is African. The obstruction exists in other parliaments, and we are not for it to be completely expelled from parliament. It was before, a being and beyond, but we're about to get some of the things that are cut off with basic civilization behavior out of this assembly. What happens in this congregation, the obstruction that happens here, I would divide about three types, three ways or three methods of obstruction. The first way of obstruction is the one most talked about here, which is a vulgar way of understanding obstruction. For this method of obstruction is the way of affirmation. So we have no other way of affirming ourselves except to make a mess, which we're going to do some things that aren't allowed, which we're going to interrupt and prevent from working. That's normal, that's how we came, with a weak team in parliament, we don't have strong players, and we have to use fouls, throw the ball in the car, roll around in the field. It's all within the limits of permission. But, let's just say, it's not allowed within the limits of someone taking football and cutting it off. It's something that goes beyond obstruction, it's something beyond anything other than all the standards of behavior. We have another kind of obstruction, and that's the one that calls for old methods, to try to get worse, and the worse, the better. So that's what we're trying to show the people that everything is the same, that nothing has changed, that these are the same as we used to be, that there's a spirit here from some MPs before. It's all basically the same. It's not the same. New people are here. I spent half my life trying to change the political system. I've spent half my life trying to change the socialist self-management system and the communist system. I didn't take advantage of this country, I wasn't pulling state and social property. I've been living my life the way I knew and knew, and now someone's gonna tell me we're all the same. We're not all the same. There is a third way, a third method to obstruct the Assembly, which is a method and an attempt to maintain the status quo. So, since there's a bottleneck here, there's not much that can be solved, and we're going to let some things get solved with some clumps, maybe some oil tanker, some cigarette dropper, but that's all pragmatic, and things are going to move on. In the end, I would call the Assembly to seriousness. Normally, sometimes you have to make a joke. I liked that amendment with those balls, the green, the yellow, the purple, but maybe it'd be nicer if it were a black jeep, a yellow jeep and a red Mercedes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12786	Branislav Ivkovic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12787	I report to the Rules of Procedure, Article 98(1). - that the MPs behind this speaker are obliged to speak of a point on the agenda and I object to the chairman for not warning the previous and the speaker before him. It's obvious when the argument is missing to move on to personal ground. I think, the chairman, that you should point out to the MPs, especially the MPs, that they are reasonedly explaining their proposal, rather than moving to the personal field and that they are dealing with issues that are not needed in this place today to be considered. I understand the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia that it is difficult to find an argument that a party that has a democratic prefix in its title reduces the rights of MPs to submit amendments on behalf of Serbian citizens, on behalf of Serbian citizens who have elected them, here represent their views, to speak for this speaker. There should be a point on the agenda, even if it's a suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12788	I couldn't agree more, by asking everyone to be consistent. The People's Messenger Radomir Naumov has the word, and after him the Messenger of the people is Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12789	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, MPs, I am one of those 41 MPs who have been signed as proposing amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which are being considered here on the fifth day here. The more the debate was on the ground, the more I became convinced of the need and need to adopt such a proposal for amendments and addition of the Rules of Procedure on our work and conduct in the Assembly. The proposal contains several essential and several formal changes and additions. We have heard essentially, although from a small number of MPs and concerns the fill-in of the government's labour control institute, which we have chosen here. So, it refers to the interpretation of government work. Some new nine members are being introduced. Secondly, the establishment of another assembly committee, the privatisation board, and here, in this part of the essential additions of our Rules of Procedure, I do not think there were too strong words, emotional performances, and most importantly – logical disputes. The formal additions and amendments of the Rules of Procedure came from experience in the work of this House so far, and they are aimed at making it possible for all Members of the National Assembly to work more efficiently and to make it possible for them to work more efficiently. They are therefore a reflection of the existing behaviour of one part of the MPs. Because for decent people, with a good home education, as well as for well-intentioned MPs, and that's the way most of them here, are proposed changes and they don't need to be tangled. From the impenetrables of the proposal, we have heard mostly several stereotypes, quasiarguments, which were usually spiced with syntagma - violations of constitutional rights, parliamentary terror, democracy failure, restrictive measures and others. If under constitutional rights and the Constitution means trying to prevent and endanger the mental health of most MPs in this home, as well as the viewers, then I am in favour of that injury. If, under the introduction of parliamentary terror, it is meant to prevent the immeasurable obstruction of Parliament's work, I agree with the introduction of this terror. If depriving democracy from this business is the denial of this democracy left to us by our predecessors in this country in the last 55 years, then I am to deny such democracy. If the restrictive measures also apply to the reduction of prosaclula, primitives and disquietings, here at this pay phone and in the O.R., then of course I'm airy for it. I urge you to vote in favour of this proposed Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12790	The word is made by MP Zeljko Tomic and then by Mr Dusan Budishin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12791	Gentlemen, in the course of the debate so far, we have witnessed appropriate and inappropriate criticism of the proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If you followed the content of the debate more closely, you could see the absence of comments regarding the introduction of impelation to the work of the Government and the Minister. These days, MPs who used to be in power are going out for a pay phone and criticizing, I think, just to criticise. They carefully bypass the introduction of interpretation and with few remarks of technical nature. I would like to stress, of course, that I support the introduction of this new concept into the work of our republican congregation, with an inevitable brief reference to the relationship between the Parliament and the Government in the last ten years. The former government, among other things, is well-known for having a mere voting machine in parliament that was not interested in the work of the Republic government, which has reduced its relations with ministers, so to speak, to the law and acts of law that have only run through this home, and we know well what the results of such work are. Today, however, some opposition MPs say the interpretation is a good intention. I ask the question of their good intentions in the last decade, which is why they did not find it appropriate in one way or another to show their good intentions. From television broadcasts and when asking certain questions about the work of the government and the ministries to us MPs, but all Serbian citizens are getting closer to the government's work, and that kind of interpretation is a very important newspaper in our work. The proposed Article 200v, the second point reads: "If the text of the interpretation contains offensive and other expressions of the unworthy Assembly and MPs, the President of the Assembly will ask the Interpletion Proposer to comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure within 15 days. "This avoids the abuse of this approximation of the Rules of Procedure to the work of a government or a certain ministry, and we all know what offensive expressions are and what kind of diction was adorned, for example, by some proposals for the resolution of certain republican ministers. This avoids today's inappropriate approach to the government and ministers by individual MPs and parliamentary groups. That is why I think it is a good solution that at least 50 MPs can put up with the interpretation, as it also prevents the possibility of abuse of obstruction, i.e. the possibility of seizing the government and ministers with various non-visible issues. In this way, it is possible for MPs from different parties and different parliamentary groups to be interested in a particular issue on the work of a government or a particular ministry. It is logical that such a solution will be considered seriously and properly, including the work of the Government, because 50 MPs can hardly agree on the insublime or infancy proposals that we have had the opportunity to hear and see. All in all, I think it is important that the importance of interpretation and its introduction into the Serbian parliament be clearly highlighted. The public must be more familiar with the work of the government, which in the past decade we have not had the opportunity to see, and I even find it inappropriate that someone who, at the time of Radmilovic, Zelenovic, Bozovic, Marjanovic and their ministers had no more serious insight into their work through this parliament, today is opposed to having a serious and appropriate debate on the work of the government or a certain ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12792	Thank you. I give my word to MP Dusan Budishin, and the next one is Mr Igor Soldatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12793	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is taking a long time to discuss the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure, so I will submit my presentation to that. There's been a lot of words, you'll only allow one sentence, everything and everything that has nothing to do with the rules of procedure, but whoever loses has the right to be angry. Democratic Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, was born. She's taking her first steps. The steps are initially insecure, but you won't return the wheel of history. That can't come back. (Glasses: - Theme. ) So, the topic, we have proposed to the National Assembly of this change, believing that they can speed up the work of the Government while at the same time allowing MPs to have appropriate articulation of positions in parliament. All the laws of the world have one of the basic tasks to create a balance between rights and abuse of rights. The rule of law is not good. The abuse of rights is even scarier. I understand these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, just like my friend from the Democratic Party of Serbia, as something temporary. Maybe the basic grudge is missing. In my opinion, this should have been done a long time ago. It was supposed to be working on a new rules of procedure, because this one has, as someone has well noticed from this pay phone, a lot of old relapses. There'll certainly be a new rules of procedure. It will be done, and it will enable the messengers of the people, and thus also the people's congregation, to work both properly and quickly. Many amendments have been submitted to our proposals. Of course, you can't blame that. But only that all these amendments were too much and that they served their purpose. Since I've had the opportunity to read all these amendments very carefully, to exchange views with my fellow board members, I could put them in three groups. The first group were the amendments that helped us, which indicated that no one was sinless, of course, except for the former ones, so there might be a gap. The second group of amendments are those that could not be accepted for reasons why if they were accepted, then we would lose the basic thread of what we wanted to achieve here. I'm not talking about the third kind of amendment. There was talk of it. But these amendments speak for themselves and may best reflect those who have proposed them. If the main one, and that's how I realized the objection to these proposals, refers to disabling the work of the MPs, I must immediately say it is not true. The work of the MPs, ladies and gentlemen, is not exhausting in parliament alone. The preparation of the law requires a hard work, and MPs have their own parliamentary groups, and they have committees, and that's where the good work is done. Whoever wants to work will work in those two groups, and the final act should be here. If, given my profession, I am asked to participate actively in the debate of the bill in the field of medicine, health, energy, etc., then I admit in advance that I would certainly not have so much to say, as my colleagues are from this profession. Therefore, if the parliamentary group is doing well, it can always ensure sufficient articulation of its views in parliament. Therefore, this basic grudge simply does not apply. I think that we have given these suggestions to the need for a new Rules of Procedure to be made in due course, to enable the work of the National Assembly to be faster, and you know how, those who love to talk in Parliament to remember that Latin: wave of eloquence, a drop of wisdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12794	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vojislav Seselj appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12795	Report on the work of all committees responsible for each legislative project, rules of procedure, resolution, declarations, etc. it is submitted before the start of the debate on amendments, and then individual committee members, who have singled out their opinion, can give reasons for their opinion. We have just listened to the General Debate report on the committee's work and a subjective interpretation of that work, which, in fact, is now not possible. It is one testimony to the methodology of working in this congregation. It was the chairman who was supposed to respond and that Budishina instructed him to speak when it was time to talk about it, and not now that he couldn't answer. Budishin puts himself here as a man who divides the amendments into useful and useless. They are good amendments that are useful to the promoter. In what democratic parliament can it pass? This qualification has run out of response. Budishina's argument is that democratic Serbia was born. Maybe she was really born. As soon as she was born, you started rocking her (President: Please do not replicate, but explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now, in that swing of democratic Serbia, you've gone too far. If you've rocked democratic Serbia in a cradle, the cradle has turned long ago and democratic Serbia has broken its head. If you rocked democratic Serbia in a boat, the boat turned over, and you drowned that democratic Serbia a long time ago. What you're proposing, no authority has dared to propose in the past 12 years. It's a democracy for you when you stop the opposition or make her help you. When will you realize that the opposition is here to avenge you, to attack you, to prevent power, not to help you? You'd make a nice opposition in your image and opportunity. The opposition is what is useful to you and what helps you. The best one would be the opposition you'd give advance orders to keep in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12796	Replica, Mr. Budishin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12797	My exposure is misread. I didn't expose myself as some sort of arbiter, Mr. Seselj, because I've never been in a position to be an arbiter. I was a citizen of the second order for 40 years. That's what this is about. I didn't mean to take anything away from anyone or explain anything except the Rules of Procedure. I'm not full of democracy, you could say that to someone else. You know what the people say: Disabilities always talk about war.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12798	The word is by MP Igor Soldatovic, followed by MP Milan Radulovic. No more registered speakers, please, if anyone wants to answer the word to sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12799	Dear colleagues, as you can see, with the Rules of Procedure we currently have and who we're working on right now, there's really something wrong. Only in these three or four days, as far as we're talking about on this subject, it seems to me that 50% of the people who spoke on the subject of the Rules of Procedure have called for the Rules of Procedure. Is this about Art. 98, 99, people generally call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There are two variations: either the chairman of the Assembly constantly violates the Rules of Procedure because it allows him to be violated or people who are calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure abuse this right. And in one version and another, indeed in any case where someone called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, we had a real breach of the Rules of Procedure. Every community, every body, every organ that works has some internal norms and some rules that it works by. Whether it was a meeting where the leader of Karadjordje was elected leader of the First Serbian uprising, or if it was another community or if it was the National Assembly, there was a norm in each of these communities. The norm that regulates the rules of the work of certain bodies, including the National Assembly, must comply with the spirit of a particular community. If the National Assembly, if those of us sitting here today are breaking the Rules of Procedure all the time, then there's something wrong with them or there's something wrong with us. If we cannot change ourselves, it is a decision that the people make in the elections, at least we are able to change the Rules of Procedure and make our work as effective as it can be. That's why the debate we're having is, even though we're talking about it for the third time, it's meaningful and it makes sense. The amendments proposed by this Decision amending the Rules of Procedure shall, in part, concern an increase in the control of the government's work process. So, first of all, I am referring to the interpretation of the privatisation committee, whose purpose would be to control the privatisation process, which is extremely important for Serbia in the coming period. The second part refers to improving the efficiency of the work of the Republic Assembly. These are the standards relating to the invitation to the Rules of Procedure, where this right is limited to the head of the parliamentary group, then the issue of amendments, where a parliamentary group of law that has, say, 10 members can submit 10 amendments and a principle debate, which will no longer last as long as it takes, but seven, eight hours. All these changes in a certain way, as you've all found more - are restrictive by now, but they will significantly reduce the time in which we will discuss certain laws, in some period of two or three days, and we will transfer the emphasis on these texts, on the texts of these laws and on the texts of these decisions to committees. So, also on extraparliamentary work, in terms of the meeting of the Republic Assembly. Some colleagues have discussed the changes ahead of us are not democratic. The Democratic Party will vote this time for a proposal submitted by a group of 41 MPs, but will not give up the basic principle in its work -- democracy. Anarchy is not democracy. The right to act in a certain way and the freedom to act in a certain way is not unlimited. The freedom of each of us is limited by the freedoms of other people in this room. Also, if this Rules of Procedure is more restrictive than the previous, and it is realistic, we need to realize that it is because we are, but being more restrictive does not mean that it is less democratic than the previous. Thank you. [[Branislav Ivkovic seeks the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12800	So don't, please, don't mention either you or the MP group. Well, don't recognize yourself. There's no such thing in the Rules of Procedure. Neither the name nor the party, nor the function, nor the parliamentary group are mentioned, only the assessment is given. There are absolutely no grounds, some colleagues have spoken, but that is not the basis for replication. There was a replica on the line today, but don't, please. There is a word from MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12801	The honourable MPs, the citizens of Serbia and the people of Serbia have long expected us, and are asking us to make our relations in this room more effective, to demonstrate political culture, to show what democracy looks like. These demands and these demands seem to be entirely acceptable to each of us, because they are fully justified; there is, I believe, no MP who sits here, who would not want us to work more efficiently, to treat each other more culturally and to have more democratic rules among us, in the work itself, to be represented and applied. It was all she had in mind when she proposed to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly - and nothing else, and nothing behind it. If you'll excuse me, I would just give a brief look at the current work of Parliament, not accusing anyone and not justifying anyone. It seems to me that the basic problem in our work is our problem together, and the position and opposition -- in that we do not understand enough that the Assembly is a legislative body, which does very specific work, and that it is only in a different plan and in a special way the political parties are applying for their programmes. We all came here as representatives of our political parties and everything, in one way or another, propagating our party programs. However, in this we seem to have completely lost the measure, so occasionally this home does not appear to be the place where laws are passed, but that the arena where political parties do their election and post-election campaign. It is natural for parties to represent their party programmes, but it is not natural to blur and suppress the basic function of the Assembly. Hand-to-heart, in the same way, some opposition parties that are now in power acted earlier. That should also be mentioned. That's what created a bad atmosphere in that parliament, it creates a bad atmosphere in this congregation. The proposed changes offered by the DSS that are not, of course, perfect - are going to determine: we are putting legislative action into the first place from now on. All parliamentary groups will have the right to express their views on each legislative proposal, and all parliamentary groups will, thus, lead their pre-election activation in a more subtle way, in a more discreet way, in a more reasonable and cultural way. By criticising a law, which we make amendments to one law, which we speak specifically of one law, not abstractally and beyond the topic of the agenda, we indirectly affirm our parties. Such a performance in the Assembly also leaves its very specific impression on voters, so the rights of political parties to these changes are not really questioned. Something else has been questioned. The DSS believes democracy only recognises a responsible freedom. These changes sanction irresponsible and destructive freedoms; and freedom that is not responsible cannot, after all, enter the composition of a democratic culture. The freedom that comes down to this: I'm going to say what I think, and I don't have the obligation to think what I'm saying - is not a useful freedom, is not constructive freedom and is not acceptable freedom. It does not belong to parliamentary culture and political rights. Only that kind of freedom is sanctioned by this Rules of Procedure. In return, for a part part of the right of MPs has been formally reduced, one fundamental freedom has been given to MPs. Data allow them to participate much more actively in the control of the executive authority, and they are given the opportunity to put on the agenda the questions raised by the people, the problems, the state and the social ones, so they are given the opportunity to work in an extremely constructive way. To conclude, on the one hand and at first glance, this is a proposal that introduces some restrictions, but this is also a proposal that tries to raise political culture to a higher level and that our mutual relations to human beings. And if relations between us were to be courteous, I guess it doesn't bother anyone, no position, no opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12802	There is a word from MP Dejan Mihajlov, and Mr. Mihajlov has not called for a single time as president of the parliamentary group, and he has not even used another announcement, as a proposing representative. That's why I didn't notify on what grounds. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12803	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here, after several days of exhaustive debate, we came to the end of the debate in principle, and I would try briefly to sum up what marked this debate and to say what DOS did, which amendments were accepted, and in which direction the debate will take place, i.e. voting on amendments. Democracy in any case, as one of its most important features of the democratic institution, has a procedure. The existence of a procedure precisely means the precise rights and obligations laid down for everyone and the restriction for the abuse of those rights. This is the Rules of Procedure which will determine the rights and obligations and share the responsibility. We used to have a Rules of Procedure that clouded responsibility and where everyone could do whatever they wanted, without any responsibility. It may have been some time that we needed and some people were responding, but it doesn't suit us. We want everyone to know how and what he does, so that every citizen knows how his MPs and the parties they voted for represent him and how they will be responsible for the next election. We are not afraid of responsibilities, we are not afraid of choices, we are ready to take responsibility for everything we do in this country, and our responsibility, or our irresponsibility, we will not defend ourselves by bad legal order, tanks and beatings, but as it does to democratic institutions, in democratic elections, we will know that we are dealing with the citizens' decision and their will, expressed in the elections. What is particularly important and what is a special benefit in this Rules of Procedure is that it is finally given the opportunity for experts, i.e. committees, or people who are expert in this area, to discuss and discuss certain issues and to propose accordingly to the Assembly how which decision is to be taken. We in the DSS, and I believe in the DOS, are ready to release all those parties that do not participate in the Committee's work, or open the doors to all committees, to join the Committee's work and to certainly contribute to a more quality discussion in committees. What DOS and DSS will accept from the amendments is to set up a committee on Kosovo and Metohija, which is operating as a subcommittee already now, should formalise the situation. In any case, one Security Committee should be proposed by an amendment adopted by the Administrative Committee. It is necessary to form a Security Committee to establish what we all talked about this year, which is civil security control of public and state security, civil control of the spending of funds going for these purposes, simply, civil control of what was the character of the previous regime, the image of protection not of the citizens, but of the authorities from the citizens and of the will of the people. That's where we need to establish control so we never have what we had in the past. Also, the privatisation committee that is scheduled is one good thing. The formation of these three committees, the Kosovo Committee, the Privatisation Committee and the change of the responsibility of the Security Committee, surrounds one picture of the assembly bodies where a good part of the jurisdiction is returned to where they belong, in the Assembly, where the national representatives sit and where there will simply be conditions to work quality. It is therefore important that all parties, regardless of political commitment, participate in the Committee's work because we need to hear all the different opinions in order to make the decisions of these committees better. The DSS and DOS are in any case against the abolition of TV transmissions, it's the fluid of our struggle for democratic institutions. No matter how much attention it costs, to delay the debate and everything else, it's simply a liquid, we will remain faithful to it, and on that side the opposition does not have to worry, it will have the opportunity to present its arguments in direct TV transmissions to all the drafts of the law. The DSS as a promoter in front of the DOS accepted an amendment relating to Article 9. The motion for a decision - to delete the part relating to the ban on reading. Note-reading will be allowed, many MPs insisted on it; we accepted this suggestion as well as some other suggestions that are less relevant in this motion for a decision, which came both from the opposition and from the side of the position. What we are doing now is creating conditions for a quality legislative work of this assembly and giving the opportunity to the Government of Serbia to bury the Assembly with its legislative proposals, to bury the Assembly this fall and spring next year with a multitude of bill proposals so that the system changes are faster, more efficient and that what we promised citizens last year will begin to realize in a way that is in their interest, and to make fundamental, fundamental changes, so that the relics remain part of the past, and that the time to which we aim is part of the future and to pave the way for a new Serbia. This parliament should become the face of a new Serbia; this Rules of Procedure will allow, to the extent that these changes make it possible for this Parliament to become so, but also fully agree with all MPs who have commented on the development of a completely new Rules of Procedure, which, in a new way, will, in accordance with all world traditions and with the experiences of modern parliamentaryism, establish rules of conduct in this Parliament where an excellent word will be given to expert committees and where MPs will work in the way that is determined, not only the rules, but also to moral norms. That's what we at DOS, at the DSS, want to do for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12804	I'm concluding a unique search and we're moving to a decision on the amendments. I remind you that amendments to the proposal for a decision were made by the MPs: Stevan Gudurić, Rajko Baralić, Branko Ružić, Ljubomir Mucić, Milos Nešović, Zoran Radovanovic, Jovan Derević, Radojko Petrović, Rade Bajić, Dragan Tomić, Slobodan Pavlovic, Toma Bušetić, Išpanović Istavan, Hranislav Perić, Joca Arsić, Živodarka Dacin, Jovan Todorović, Miroljub Želović, Milorad Mirčić, Tomislav Nikolic, Velimir Simonović, Miroslav Kristović, Aleksandar Vučić, Golubžan Rajić, Vladimir Gravan Žrić, Nebojša Jović, Zarko Obradović, Natasaša Jovanović, Stanko Kovačević, Bora Stanko Kjemirović, Stevan Kjeljovrić, Milić, Milisak Kjeljić, Milišović, Milić, Milišč, Milić, Miljan Žlažović and Žaljan Žović, Dragjan Žradžar, Drag, Dragžar, Drag Žradnović, Žradan Žradić, Drag, Žradić, Drag, Drag Žradić, Žradić, Žradić, Žradić, Žradić, Žradić, Žradić, Žradić, Žradić, Žradić, Žrad. The amendments were withdrawn by the MPs: Tomislav Panajotovic and Dragan Pavlovic to Article 13 of the amendments and to Article 15 of Amendment 1 and Zoran Radovanovic to Article 1. National MP Milan Jankovic submitted an amendment to Article 3, which is untimely because it was submitted on 8 October 2001. I remind you that the Administrative Committee and the Legislative Committee, considering the amendments submitted on the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, have found that the writings, which have been designated as amendments to individual Members of Parliament, are rudely insulting the dignity of the National Assembly, the MPs, individual state officials, as well as other persons. The committees pointed out that the provision of Article 99. The Rules of Procedure obliges MPs to behave properly not only when speaking orally, but also when preparing written texts, such as amendments to the draft laws and other acts. In view of Article 99, paragraph 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are not permitted by MPs to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and that according to the attitude of the 3rd member of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to use offensive expressions, by entering into a debate on writings that harshly insult the dignity of the National Assembly of the Assembly that would violate its own Rules of Procedure. The committees therefore decided to propose to the National Assembly that this letter be rejected: Tomislav Nikolic, Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17. Branislav Blažić, members 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13. Dragan Colić, members 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12 and 16. Petra Jojic, members 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15. Bozidar Vujic, members 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 17. Ljubomir Kragovic, members 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 14. Serbia's Zivanovic, members 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16. Alexander Vukic, members 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16 and 17. Goran Cvetanović, members 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16 and 17. Slobodan Janjic, members 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14 and 15. Dragoljub Stamenković, members 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17. Lazar Marjanski, Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 14. Bozidar Vučurovic, members 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17. Natasha Jovanovic, members 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 16. Zlatan Jovanovic, members 6, 8, 12, 13, 15 and 17. Miroljub Veljkovic, members 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14. Milorad Mircic, members 9, 10, 11 and 17. Stevan Kesejic, members 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16 and 17. Veroljub Arsic, members 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12 and 13. Zoran Radovanović, member 9. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12805	It's obvious here in full light that all of your democracy is manifested. This is the democracy that Boudujin just, here, rocked behind a pay phone. You have no legal basis in the Rules of Procedure to do this. Every amendment must be discussed. If the amendment is offensive, then the MP who has submitted an offensive amendment in the course of the debate is given a disciplinary measure. That's possible. The Legislative Committee shall assess only whether the amendment is legally possible or not. There, the Legislative Committee overstepped its powers. Instead of going back to the Legislative Committee for review, in order to put it back in the framework of its powers, you want to vote. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure again. You want everything. I know what you want. Thirty thousand citizens attended a rally by the Serbian Radical Party. Laugh, laugh. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] The more restrictive measures you carry out here, the more parliament on the street will happen. You cannot appeal to Article 99 here, because there is no sanction for refusing or rejecting an amendment to Article 99. First you put in a rejection. It says how incompetent you are and know nothing. And the federal interior minister's advisor has no idea of the right, so he put it -- he's being rejected, like he's getting something or he's refusing something. Then he sent the credentials in which he put it - he rejects. It cannot be dismissed without an individual vote on each amendment. According to this Rules of Procedure, each amendment must be voted on in particular. You have to convince the National Assembly here that the timing is really the way you qualify it, so you have to give the MP the right to defend his own amendment, which you qualify, and you have to give it to the heads of the parliamentary groups, if they want to make a statement on this matter, in order to move to a vote. You can't have a block this many amendments all of a sudden. Let's see what Taiwai Budishin says now, who swears here by his 40-year anti-communist struggle. Did the communists teach you to take these acts here to the National Assembly and vote like that, all hands up? This wasn't even with the communists that the amendments were being voted on by the bloc. (President: Time. There was no such thing. Once, the Socialists, as I recall, failed to vote on very similar amendments at once. But here all the amendments are different. You want to vote on all amendments to the various members of the business project. That's impossible. But anything is possible with you, because it's useful to you. What's useful to you, it'll break your head.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12806	We won't discuss the same things. Reporting to the Rules of Procedure. The Assembly's decision does not open a debate on this. So please keep that in mind. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: By the Rules of Procedure. ) Before you get your word, I suppose you know the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to answer. Mr. Seselj pointed out a serious remark. We're not gonna get past that. He probably wants to hear the answer. He's already got the answer. He was read with a call for members of the Rules of Procedure, I will add another, as he challenged the Committee's right to declare this and to propose, in this way, that in Article 67. The Rules of Procedure states: "The Committee shall monitor the application of this Rules of Procedure, consider and make proposals for its amendments and additions and give an opinion to the National Assembly, on its request, on the application of certain provisions of this Rules of Procedure. "Therefore, the Committee is authorised to give an interpretation and to propose to the Assembly, which he did with the proposal not to reject one vote, but to reject as acts which cannot be by the Rules of Procedure to be their turn to declare the MPs. That may be the case for the National Assembly to make a statement, and it will be declared, for I have begun to put it to the vote. (Alexander Vukic, from the post: By the Rules of Procedure. ) Unless it's a similar remark. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: Was there a vote? Don't open the discussion any further. I put to the vote the proposal of the Administrative and Legislative Committee... (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: I had a complaint about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. What kind of behavior is that? You need to be clearer. Not louder, but clearer. I ask the People's MPs to plead to Mr. Seselj's objection that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. For 60, against 126, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 8, a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has assessed that there has been no damage to the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Vukic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12807	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is not true what the president of the National Assembly just said, even though they tried to prepare him. It is not true because entirely different members, even sections of the existing and current Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, speak of the preparation and inclusion of amendments in the agenda, and how they will be discussed, and the very course of the session. Article 99, which has been called upon by the Legislative Committee, does not regulate the same matter at all, like that member or that section that speaks of amendments. (President: Mr. Wolf, we've already decided this. We didn't decide. Please be patient. (President: The remark is the same as Mr. Seselj, which the Assembly has declared. I'm talking about a completely different member and don't show any anxiety. Do not insult the MPs of the people, for I will now quote some of my amendments to the entire assembly, and let someone come out and tell me what is offensive here, to say one word to me. Namely, I have submitted an amendment asking that, in view of the proposed rules of procedure, instead of the privatisation board, the opposition's destruction committee is being formed. What's the word ugly, rude, what's offensive about it? What is it that bothers someone, if that's already de facto done by the draft Rules of Procedure? Then why don't we just be open to the end, not be transparent to the end and do it? I would ask someone to tell me, because I was working on this Rules of Procedure and writing amendments, and someone like that wants to play with someone's efforts and to throw them away, what bothers Amendment number 12, in which I say, "that the distance measure from the session is applied for the next three days of the session, in order to give it back to the insubordination and otherwise thinking MPs, and to obtain the conditions for confiscation of property and sentence of a five-year prison. "What is offensive if it's not offensive to take one, two, or three salaries, where you go with a fine? So, you're saying it's good and democratic that someone goes with a fine, but that's why it's offensive if they say they're going to go on a property confiscation. Is that your democracy? How is that even possible? What act makes it possible for you to speak? Who in the world would have thought to play with both the National Assembly and the MPs in this way? How does someone think they can come out in front of the public and the citizens of Serbia? What is offensive about this amendment? Come out and tell us. Who's the wise guy, on any committee, who called it offensive, so he threw it out? (President: Time. ) He rejected Article 16, in which I say, believe it or not: "to authorise the Secretary of the National Assembly to establish a consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure, and in this business will be assisted by the President of the National Assembly. "Please come out and tell me what's offensive, and even if it is, it can't be done here and in this session in this way. Somebody come out and tell me what's offensive about it. My change is that it's not the president of the National Assembly, it's the secretary of the National Assembly. You say it's offensive. I've read the entire contents of the amendment. I may have offended the secretary because he would never act as president of the National Assembly. Maybe, but someone needs to give an explanation. You may have made progress or not, but what you're doing is not only legal, but political and human savagery. Try to explain to me about any of these amendments in any way they're offensive, anyone, who rated their weight.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12808	We heard another complaint concerning the basis of the business proposal for a decision, the proposal of the Administrative and Legislative Committee. Does the Assembly need to make a statement? I ask the Parliament to plead, although we have already spoken of this. For 63, against 129, there were no abstentions, no four votes, a total of 196. (Natasa Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. We discussed this question. I won't let that happen. Make sure I don't let that happen. You will, of course, be able to contact on some other basis to object to the violation, but this is what the Assembly has declared. (Vojislav Seselj: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) I put to the vote the proposals of the Administrative and Legislative Committee. You'll get your word when I finish my sentence and vote. For 127, against 57, two abstentions, did not vote 11, a total of 197. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of the Administrative and Legislative Committee. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12809	You have now once again demonstrated typical legal violence. According to our Rules of Procedure, any advertising of the violation of certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure shall give priority to the MP when going out for a pay phone. Now, in front of the entire National Assembly and in front of the entire Serbian public, the president of the National Assembly demonstrated the willlessness, unscrupulousness in the violation of the Rules of Procedure and did not allow Natasha Jovanovic to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because he knows in advance what Natasa Jovanovic is going to say and you all know. Is there a problem in you that you all know everything in advance? That's your problem. You may violate the Rules of Procedure until the next election, but we will constantly alert the public about your violation of the Rules of Procedure. The fact that you've already had enough of the people knows everyone in this country and that's already a final fact. That's why you're running away from the election. You don't know who more than DOS parties avoid new elections. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure, and we will constantly challenge you to break it as much as possible. You must give each MP, or you will bring out one MP at a time, or you will allow them to use their business rights. Natasa Jovanovic has the right to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12810	Its right is not even questionable to her, but it says in the Rules of Procedure - when the previous speaker finishes his presentation. The previous speaker was me, and I said he'd get a word when I was done. I'm done, we voted, it can't apply to what the Assembly has solved. Here you go. If he can, he'll get a measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12811	If I'm gonna take your measure or one of the Serbian radicals, it's not gonna be good for you. When we start taking measures, that measure is the right thing to do. As far as I'm concerned, I'm used to everything, and I've already explained to you on several occasions who needs, which branch of medicine and what area to deal with you and your behavior. As far as I'm concerned, you've violated Article 1. Rules of Procedure. I'm not going to call a member who says you had to give me your word right away. You lied to all the MPs facelessly, I don't mean those common people who think like you, but members of groups of MPs who know how to interpret this current Rules of Procedure, as well as the entire Serbian public at the moment you said, and that was a minute ago, that you started the presentation, and then I asked you for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which simply, Mr. Martian, is not true. As far as I'm concerned, you've violated Article 1. The Rules of Procedure, which says, "This Rules of Procedure regulates the organisation and work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as the National Assembly) and the way in which the rights and duties of Members of Parliament are exercised. "The moment you read the reports of the Legislative and Administrative Committee, which say that because of offensive, I don't know what expressions, the amendments, the 250 amendments of the Serbian Radical Party MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12812	This has been decided and I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12813	No, we haven't decided on a member of the First Rules of Procedure that you're violating. (President: This is what the Assembly decided, and I gave you a warning. The congregation did not decide that because there is only now a discussion in detail. So, at the moment when the debate in particular begins, you should tell me, as a People's MP, whose rejected amendments you have read, which consists of that injury on my part, what is offensive and why the amendments I have made on time, in accordance with the current Rules of Procedure, have been rejected. Tell me what is offensive in the fact that I asked for a committee to be set up to control drug addiction and drug trafficking, where I also assigned you a very large role and where I asked Cedomir Jovanovic to be appointed president of that committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12814	I give you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12815	I think Cedomir Jovanovic would be honored, and on your part, you must explain to me what the breach of the Rules of Procedure consists of.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12816	Okay, I see you all have your Rules of Procedure in your hands, but I will not allow this kind of behavior in parliament. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Would you like the National Assembly to make a statement about yours, at least to me, to a completely vague objection? I ask the National Assembly to plead. For 62, against 120, one abstention, did not vote 8, a total of 191. (Stevan Kesejic: According to the Rules of Procedure. We've discussed these things and I won't give you my word. I won't let the National Assembly of Mockingbirds be thrown out. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. (Vojislav Seselj: According to the Rules of Procedure. I didn't finish the presentation. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. A representative of the Proposer andAdministrative Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. This is where it stands - when the promoter agreed. I don't need to ask. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. (Zagor, MPs ask for a word, MP Seselj insists that he receive the word. Please, please, let us finish. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. (Zagor, MP Seselj insists on discussing the amendment. It's a unique search. (Cheeselj, from the place: Since there is no debate on the amendment, why is no word given. I'll explain how - easy. It's in the Rules of Procedure. No one, against 116 abstentions, voted 73 and a total of 189 MPs. Please be quiet. [[Sagar.]] What's the problem? I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, he has the word Mr. Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12817	To vote on amendments, they must be discussed. A single debate is being held in principle, and any amendment should be discussed prior to the declaration. There must be arguments for and against. The one whose amendment is to declare the Board's objections. The Committee’s opinion cannot be relevant only to the National Assembly. This is how you interpret the Rules of Procedure and how you act best to testify that you don't need the National Assembly. This is the president of the National Assembly who doesn't give MPs a word when they advertise violations of the Rules of Procedure, with your noise. If you're going to compete here -- who's going to make more noise, we can participate in that competition, but you're imposing such a competition on the National Assembly. You want to vote exclusively because you're afraid to argue. What's it cost you to put an end to the principle debate? You can do that, too. What's it cost you to end the opposition? You can do that. The voices, we agree. I know you agree. You can do it. You wouldn't be the first to do it, but be aware of the consequences it causes. Of course, your awareness of appeal is not worth it, because you have no conscience or conscience. What I'm saying about your lack of consciousness and conscience is because of the Serbian public.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12818	Mr. Seselj, please let us not go to this thing indefinitely. According to the Rules of Procedure, which you have called the most democratic in the world for three days, the provision which has not been amended by the new proposal states in Article 153: "The draft rules of procedure, declarations, resolutions, recommendations, decisions or conclusions may be submitted by the legislator, in writing, with an explanation". Position two: "The proposal for an act under Article 1 shall be previously submitted to the MPs and a single search shall be opened for them." Mr. Seselj, do you know or pretend you don't know or really don't know what a unique search means? A unique search has been conducted and completed. In the context of the Single Search, the draft act was considered in principle and in particular. If you have maybe a different knowledge, then really... Don't, please, keep jumping for a pay phone here, accusing someone of non-democratic behavior, of torture, of not knowing what else out there, and you can't read the Rules of Procedure that you yourself wrote. Please. Here you go, if it's not about the same subject. Please tell me about the same subject... Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. I spoke to Mr. Ivkovic. Okay, here you go, but I'm really not gonna let you guys discuss the same things all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12819	Don't let me do anything. I didn't ask you to let me do anything. I don't need you to let me do anything at all, as I don't understand why this number of police officers in this room is going to happen right now. I can't understand that. I love the police, but I don't understand why you brought them in this number. Whether they're scaring us or something else. They won't scare us. I'll tell you right now. And secondly, let me tell you, I asked for one explanation, and I ask you to give it to me. And I didn't ask to just vote, because the National Assembly could break the Rules of Procedure. I asked you, from the representatives of the board and everyone else, to tell me, I quoted my three amendments, which you took away from me, not to be spoken of...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12820	Mr. Wolfie, you can't demand anything from a pay phone here. You can only object that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's no discussion of anything. The debate is over. Please come to yourself a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12821	Please listen carefully to what I'm saying. All the time, I've been very specific about members 138 to 142. I don't understand how, in any way, it occurred to someone that my amendments, which I quoted here, were cast out and said they were offensive. Well, tell me what was offensive about it. To tell me Mr. Pajtic or who wants what is offensive in that the secretary of the National Assembly determines the consolidated text...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12822	Mr. Vukiæu, I warned you not to abuse ( Ambassador Vukic speaks at the same time with the President)... I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12823	And what did you warn me about?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12824	Because you're disrupting the work of the Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12825	You gave me a warning because I'm telling the truth, because no one in the O.R. can say it's not true and because the truth hurts you. Now, that's your problem. You can always say that what you're doing is democracy. That's the worst insolence. It is the worst dictatorship, which has never existed in Serbia since 1988. I'm not a demagogue, Broz's time was certainly worse, but this is getting closer to Broz's time today. This I am not sure that it occurred to the late Josip Broz to work, because no one in Serbia ever dreamed of happening under the democratic, legal and transparent regime of Vojislav Kostunica and his wife.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12826	Mr. Ivkovic, and then we move on to the amendment decision. We're not playing here, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12827	Mr. Chairman, I am convinced that we are on the verge of a very ugly event. It would be good to interrupt the session, take a break and have the presidents of the parliamentary groups with you hold a meeting. Is this open as a unique search? It is a unique search for declarations and resolutions, but so far in Parliament's parliamentary practice, a single search for a document in which amendments exist did not prevent lawmakers who submitted amendments, according to the rules of discussion in particular, and presidents of parliamentary groups from talking about amendments. It is true that you have applied the form of a unique search. But it is also true that this form of a unique search is applied to text parts where there are no amendments. If there are amendments, never before in the practice of this Parliament (find a single example) has a single MP been prevented from talking about the amendment by the rules of discussion in particular. Please, as president of the parliamentary group, give a break and we will sit down and discuss the situation with you. Because we estimate, if you keep insisting on this, that we will no longer be in the O.R. by this point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12828	Believe me, if I were very inclined to agree on parliamentary groups, I would arrange that meeting if I knew that it would have all the presidents of all the parliamentary groups. We don't have that problem. We have another problem. In addition, we had meetings about when something really needs to be arranged, about how to interpret something that you yourself say is written in the Rules of Procedure. The past practice has passed, I don't know why it was so interpreted before, but in the Rules of Procedure, don't argue yourself that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and at a time when it was written I suppose it was in mind and why it was singled out, opens up a unique exaggeration and then decides on amendments in general. (The People's MP, Stevan Kesejic, answered the words. ) Have we discussed what you're going to advertise, please don't put me in an awkward situation, if there's anything new, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12829	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the most obvious violation of the Rules of Procedure by the President of the Assembly is that I've been holding the Rules of Procedure for half an hour now and I'm announcing a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I'm not getting a word. The president of the National Assembly doesn't know why I'm reporting a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, I'm not reporting the same members as my predecessors, I'm not reporting, although I can also talk about it, but I'm reporting Article 134 which is talking about the discussion in the particulars that are being conducted by members and which are being submitted in the amendments. So as President of the National Assembly, you have injured the Rules of Procedure by giving other MPs from the DOS to quote my amendment, that this amendment is being published in public, but not in the full text that I have submitted as an amendment. In this way you distorted the picture of the amendment that was meant to help the congregation work more successfully. You do not allow me to explain that amendment to my citizens, or to my voters. I also believe that most of my amendments that you have rejected only citizens can evaluate, assess whether they are offensive, in which part they are offensive to whom. If you allow these four amendments, which I suppose are not offensive, you continue to claim that this is why they are rejected, as it stands here, then the citizens will therefore judge what democracy is in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12830	Mr. Keseiæ, I warned you not to put me in an awkward situation. You're still doing it. Please, the Assembly has decided on this and do not interfere with the work of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12831	You're not letting me say...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12832	Of course I don't, because it's against the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12833	You have deceived the citizens that I have submitted offensive amendments. Now I want to deny it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12834	You address the means of information, make a press conference, but do not interfere with the work of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12835	I'm a national MP representing certain voters...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12836	I give you a warning, Mr. Kesei.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12837	The voters expect me to represent them here. You have no right to take away my word, to warn me because on behalf of Serbian citizens, or voters, I speak. I have submitted amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12838	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12839	Well, you took half my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12840	You didn't even start talking about what you called for, and you insisted on it so much. Please do not disturb the work of the Assembly, to move to decision-making according to the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12841	This really doesn't make sense. The citizens have now fully convinced themselves that you do not allow MPs to speak, that you do not allow them to speak the truth, because you consider the only truth to be what you say. Once you tried to show it to your strength, to show what this DOS majority could do, you kicked me out, you beat me up. Here, I'm staying here, Mr. President, to see if you're able to apply any other measures. If you won't let me...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12842	I remind you, Mr. Keseiæ, it's been four minutes. Do you have any idea why you went out or why you went out just because you had a warrant?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12843	Because you hurt the Rules of Procedure and you wouldn't let me...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12844	Mr. Keseiæ, we've already decided that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12845	And secondly, because you do not allow me to present my amendments to which I have tried to present them better and more crediblely here to the MPs, because I believe that if the Legislative Committee did not accept my amendments, that most MPs from the DOS of that amendment would even accept them. I also got some assurances about it from the MPs of the DOS. Therefore, which is why you are violating the Rules of Procedure and do not allow me to explain these amendments the way I have prepared them...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12846	In five minutes, you were able to explain why you called.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12847	I failed because you wouldn't let me. I was just talking about the obstruction that you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12848	Mr. Kesei, I take your word. The emissary didn't leave the pay phone. I'm taking a break until 3:30. [[After a break.]] I suggest we determine the quorum first. I find that we have a quorum to continue the work of the Assembly. The word is Mrs Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12850	In accordance with Article 1. The Rules of Procedure, a little more valid Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, as you will soon vote on this anti-democracy, anti-civilisation proposal by the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Group, the DSS legislator, I would like to inform the general public that the SRS MPs will not participate in the follow-up of this session, this farce. The reasons for leaving the session by the MPs of the SRS are that the six-day session on the proposal for a decision on amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure has shown that the largest possible totalitarianism is at work, that the DOS majority is most brutally counting on political non-skillers, primarily with the MPs of the SRS, that you are abolishing the constitutional rights of MPs, who, in your opinion, are no longer MPs, but that you are not members of the parliamentary group, that you are making it impossible for the national representatives to talk about your radical legal projects, and that through such a proposal of the Rules of Procedure you actually want to show and to confirm, by whom you know that you are no Democrats, but that the greatest dictatorship is at work. Since parliamentary democracy was established in Serbia, such a dictatorship has not been in place, as it is now under DOS rule. This, of course, will not make it impossible for us, the MPs of the SRS, to continue against the will and dictatorship of the DOS regime a decisive struggle. We'll do it with the people. This assembly, this farce, is no longer worth anything to you here, how you conduct the Rules of Procedure, how you violate the Constitution, how you break the law, what the act of breaking all legal norms is, by the President of the Assembly and all MPs of the DOS. We, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will go into the people, to a people who are severely saddened by your narcissistic policy, we, as we did on Friday, October 5th, at a magnificent rally in Novi Sad, will continue to visit our voters throughout Serbia. On Friday, October 12th, at 5:00 p.m., at the central town square in Prokuplje, we will also tell the citizens of Prokuplja what we think of your dictatorial, autocratic government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12851	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that a meeting with the presidents and representatives of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, except for representatives of the Serbian Radical Party, who have been invited, has been held at the meeting. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Mr. Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's Democratic Party of Serbia Group, Dragan Markovic - Palma, president of the parliamentary group of the Serbian Unity Party, Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Democratic Party of Serbia, Mr. Marko Petrovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Nova Serbia and Mr. Vojkan Tomic, deputy president of the DOS-Dr. Vojislav Kostunica Group, Movement for Democratic Serbia. At the meeting, the consultations jointly concluded that there were no violations of the Rules of Procedures of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which opened a single search, as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was jointly found to have applied the Rules of Procedure differently in earlier practice. We also agreed that, as the strict respect of this Rules of Procedure represents a sort of surprise for certain parliamentary groups, because the practice was different, in the follow-up of the session we are working on the following way - each parliamentary group will have the right to present its arguments in favour of the amendments, which as a parliamentary group, to point out, of course, and repeat objections, remarks on the basic proposed text and to participate in the debate within 45 minutes of the parliamentary group, as well as the parliamentary group itself. This is a joint agreement and I ask you to continue our work this way, so that we can then move on to the amendment decision, with suggestions that with the work of the National Assembly, if time permits, we continue until the end of this agenda. I ask the National Assembly to confirm by its decision this agreement by the president of the parliamentary groups at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that for 129, against four, abstentions of five, there was no vote of 23, of a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision on how to proceed in this session. I just may not have mentioned - therefore, within that 45-minute time period and speakers from the parliamentary groups and the length of exposure that some of the speakers will use within that time, they will determine the MP groups themselves. The first was the president of the SPS parliamentary group, Mr Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12852	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked, at the end of the afternoon debate, to interrupt the session and to hold a meeting with the President of the Assembly, because I understood and realized that all of us in the opposition parliamentary groups were surprised by the decision and interpretation of what it meant to be a single debate. In fact, what this is about (I apologize, I will not speak directly about the amendments, it will be those who will come after me from the SPS to talk) - it is that in February we had a similar situation, when we adopted an emergency session of the Rules of Procedure's amendments. Here are the stenographic notes which clearly show that, under the chairmanship of the same Assembly, we have had the opportunity to explain the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we were all caught up in the fact that this time it's not possible, we asked for a session and we got 45 minutes to explain the essential elements of our amendments to the Rules of Procedure, convinced that you might understand certain amendments and accept them. Otherwise, I stress that when this Rules of Procedure is adopted, we from the SPS will not take part in the vote because we believe that this Rules of Procedure drastically reduces the rights of MPs and brings them to a 10 times worse position than was foreseen by the 1994 Rules of Procedure. The truth works and history, for the record, the Rules of Procedure adopted in November 1994, at a time when the SPS had a majority in parliament, allowed MPs to discuss twice in 10 minutes, propose amendments to each member of the law that is under consideration and participate in the debate on the amendments of their colleagues. So, these original Rules of Procedure, we MPs were in a position to really make a full contribution to the congregation's work and to improve the proposal for legal projects. It is not good for most in the Assembly to assess, according to the conduct of a number of MPs or a smaller group of MPs, that it is necessary, using their behaviour, to reduce the rights when it comes to the presentation of MPs for the assembly speaker, especially when it comes to the restriction of the presence of MPs of opposition parties and at all opposition parties in the media today. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would like to say that we have also submitted an amendment to the Privatisation Committee, assessing that there is such a assembly committee, but by default the following - that it is a matter of ex-post mind. Why did not the Privatisation Committee be introduced immediately during an extraordinary session on the amendments to the Rules of Procedure? Why was no privatisation committee introduced when the Privatisation Act was adopted? It is clear, in essence, that relations between the DSS and the DS have now made a proposal to amend the DSS Rules of Procedure essentially form a privatisation board as a kind of mistrust for those who are now in the government of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, MP Dragan Tomic will speak. I just want to point out the satisfaction that the amendment has been accepted regarding the establishment of a committee on Kosovo and Metohija, and that it is still not responsible for our request, by parliamentary groups, to open a public debate here in the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly, particularly regarding the registration process and the election process in Kosovo and Metohija. Our position is to make sure that the census of the population is carried out in the Republic of Serbia, in the SRJ. We are not Burundi and Budjumbura, this is Yugoslavia and the city of Belgrade. We have the land books of our citizens from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, we have a copy of the birth certificate and we, with the census of the citizens of Serbia from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, can join the land books and enter negotiations where a limited period of return will be defined, which is, under Resolution 1244, a member of the 9th obligation of the Security Council of the United Nations. This committee on Kosovo and Metohija, which has been accepted as an amendment to our MPs, is essentially tasked and should be tasked in this direction to act uniquely on behalf of all parties in parliament, because national interests must be assumed by party interests and in this direction we want to act. I give my word to Master Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12853	Here you are, Mr. Obradovic, I'd like to speak with you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12854	Dear fellow Members of the People, I have submitted several amendments, and I will say more than just an amendment to Article 4 of this proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I have suggested that this member be deleted for the simple reason that this Member - the motion for a decision by its essence - shows the non-democratic character of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. it makes it impossible for the MP, or the MPs of the National Assembly to participate in the work of the National Assembly. In this article, it is very detailedly limited to the right of each MP, or parliamentary group, to speak and to determine the time of the presentation. This is directly contrary to Articles 2 and 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the rights that the Constitution lays down, and concerning the MPs. What else is there to say about this member, or the motion for a decision? The right of MPs is tied to a parliamentary group, independent of the president of the parliamentary group and each parliamentary group has the right to speak for 30 minutes, which practically means that compared to the time established for the work of the entire Assembly on one item of the agenda, the time is five hours, three and a half hours has the right to speak seven parliamentary groups in the republican assembly. When we share the rest of the time according to the number of MPs that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has today, which is 250 MPs, we come to one frantic data, believe it or not, on average the MP has the right to speak for 21 seconds. That's what one of our colleagues calculated, and I'm sure according to this information, the possibility that the MP will speak for 21 seconds, we'll enter those Ripley data books, "Believe it or not." The fact is that the limited time of debate of the MPs is most affected by the opposition MPs, since they have the greatest need to step forward in the Assembly, because the assembly majority, in any case, also helps the government they have formed. That this restriction of rights applies not only to MPs belonging to MPs, it also shows the content of this mentioned member, where in the last opinions it is said that from MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, they have the right to speak only the three. I think that the contents of this article, especially these last opinions, are ridiculous and pointless, because it turns out that if there are several MPs who do not belong to any of the MPs, if only an agreement is reached between them, three of them who agree can speak, and the rest of them, if they do not agree, will, of course, prevail or the speed factor that is closer to this speaker or the physical device, who is more willing to come running and to register as soon as possible. This article shows, in its essence, that it is practically the rules of procedure of restrictive character and that it makes it impossible for MPs to speak. And another detail -- you can imagine for yourself what will happen, and how many MPs will have the opportunity to speak, when on the agenda there are more points of similar content. Then the National Assembly, probably, as it did last time, will decide to bring together a debate on multiple agendas. Practically, then the MPs will not even be able to speak about what is on the agenda, let alone point to the quality or the negative side of those proposals that will be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12855	The word is from the People's MP Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12856	Dear fellow Members, giving their contribution to the debate on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work, I have proposed a number of amendments. Of these proposed amendments, two amendments were adopted. According to Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, MPs have been elected by the voter's will and cannot be denied the right to take part in the debate on any matter, to present their views and opinions that best represent the interests of their voters. This right cannot even be restricted and replaced by the right parliamentary group. It was one of the proposed amendments. But a key amendment to forming a committee of the Republika Srpska Assembly to deal with Kosovo and Metohija issues has also been accepted. I have the right and obligation, as an MP for this assembly that comes from Kosovo and Metohija, to, regardless of the current relationship between political forces in our country, say about what we have from the SPS, our MPs - Djuru Lazic and Sreko Mitrovica, led us to propose this amendment, i.e. the amendment on the establishment of a committee on Kosovo and Metohija, as a vital national interest of the Serbian people. If, as the National Assembly and this year, we have unanimously defined ourselves, for the sake of Hekerup's paper, to demand a consistent fulfilment of all the provisions of Security Council Resolution 1244, so much before we have to formalize ourselves what we insist on with the international community. If Kosovo and Metohija are really still part of our state territory, which is not disputed that UNMIK and KFOR are currently in place, then the least we can do is form a committee in this parliament, whose primary task will be to deal with issues related to Kosovo and Metohija. This means that our assembly, as our largest representative legislative body, has the right, but above all, the duty to show, by forming a special committee for Kosovo and Metohija, the degree of its continuing interest in this national issue. Namely, all those who show any interest in political developments in our country know that problems related to Kosovo and Metohija last not only for the past ten years, but 120 years, since the formation of the Prizren League. The dark forces of the anti-civilisation alliance will not give up so easily on the creation of a jihad state in the heart of the Balkans. These European Taliban have just educated and supported those who have now felt in their most brutal sight the fact of the art of evil, from whom - of their students. I guess they figured out what monsters they created. Let's remember Madlen Albright and her adjutant Richard Holbrooke, who did not hide their sympathy for the Balkan Bin Laden Parliamentarians, because they took pictures of each other in Kosovo and Metohija together, but also at many official meetings throughout the United States. Part of what I'm talking about, and maybe it shouldn't have been said today, and maybe it is, sure it is. This should be addressed and these issues should be addressed by American secret services, which seem to have not been understood, but continue to stick their heads in the sand, not noticing in Kosovo and Metohija hundreds and thousands of Bin Laden's Balkan Taliban. I don't want to be a prophet, but history as a life teacher says that the Shiplars have always committed the greatest atrocities against those who supported them. I wouldn't be surprised if one of their targets were Bondsteel. The formation of the board also needs to answer questions about the violation of the resolution of the idelaration, the return of the exiled, the fate of the kidnapped and the remnant and the survival of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. So I propose that we now show the greatest wisdom and, by forming this committee in the Serbian Parliament, allow all of us to deal with issues related to the southern Serbian province, taking care of our country's Serbian national interests and state interests. Thank you. (Stevan Guduric, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12857	You're wasting your time with your MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12858	Play along, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. There were 162 cards, and 10 people didn't come out when I left. So the question of quorum - Article 80 and Article 114. Time can't go because it belongs to the MP's group. This is beyond all of it. This is a matter of basic discipline and relationships to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12859	Please confirm the quorum. I figure we have a quorum. (Stevan Gudurić, from the site: We had 152 cards in the moment. ) Here you are, from the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12860	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, convinced that extreme solutions are never the best solutions, I have suggested improvements to certain members, all in order to get an optimal solution which in my vocabulary means that either we are all equally satisfied or all equally unhappy with this solution. Apparently, a lot of people who are happy can't be. So, my pledge went in the direction of Article 4 to be changed in a particular way, and especially in the part where the rights of the MP have been limited, who has set out his opinion to speak for more than five minutes, in a part where it is said that the president or representative of the parliamentary group cannot speak for a total of more than 10 minutes and that, in part, the term of the parliamentary group is introduced and the right of the parliamentary group to discuss for at least 30 minutes, while suspending the right of the MP to report by the procedure and that, when he is given the right to speak by that procedure, he then speaks for at least 10 minutes. Of course, I'll explain it, regardless of the marble in the O.R. I'm sure that won't distract me. It just seems that we've already started to act on our new rules of procedure, as far as we're concerned, that everything comes down to that old famous joke when Hodja lost her watch, and then she doesn't know how to get to him and say, you know, brothers, I lost an hour in the sermon, if a Muslim brother finds him, she can bring him to the mosque; if a Catholic brother finds him, bring him to the mosque; if a Serb brother finds him, I talk for nothing. What I'm saying, I feel like I'm talking for nothing. Whatever I say, you will vote as you vote. For the sake of the public, for the sake of yourself and for the sake of truth, I want to say what these amendments are about and what these amendments are meant to do. So, I suggest that the right of the MP who has singled out his opinion and who had earlier the right to speak for 10 minutes, and now he is limited to five minutes, return to 10 minutes, because that act of dissuasion deserves to be explained in detail and argued, so it is necessary to give the reasons to present themselves with evidence of claims, and that usually takes more than five minutes. As for the time in which he can speak under the proposal of this new Rules of Procedure, the head of the parliamentary group, which comes down to 10 minutes, I think it should be 30 minutes, because the president or representative of the parliamentary group must be able to take part, in addition to the opening presentation, by affirming his group's views during the debate and, of course, in the final statement's final consideration. I also don't think that the right of the MP to speak in the Assembly to be transferred to a parliamentary group and that within that parliamentary group and within the positions, which take place in that parliamentary group, his right to discuss is limited, because that MP, regardless of what he is elected by a proportional system, is also a region, is also represented by a whole and probably because of that he has the right to speak on behalf of that continent, and not that within the parliamentary group, he determines the timing. Of course, before we had the opportunity to talk about a certain point of the agenda, and now it's said to be five hours, without giving an argument as to why, what is the basic criterion, and I said in my discussion in principle, that how much this will be talked about depends on the importance of the subject. So, the subject initiates the number of debaters. The number of debaters in some timing gives some time, which normally doesn't have to be five hours. So let's do it a little bit more elsatically, and that's where I think Article 5 is supposed to be deleted in general, or the gabar should rephrase differently. I also had a proposal to delete Article 9 as a whole, because Article 9 is said to be unable to read the written concept or not to read the written text when it comes to a pay phone and when it's spoken of. Let's not argue too much about it, and not usurp right to my colleagues, future speakers. Of course, the individual thing is how and how much anyone can say and how it can bring about in the context of discussion and public address. Finally, I have an objection to a member who says only one amendment can be submitted to one member of the bill. I think that it should also be deleted, because it cannot take the right of MPs to present their reasons and objections through amendments to individual proposed members, and that this right may be limited to the submission of only one amendment to one member of the law, since voters did not choose a parliamentary group but MPs, and the group would agree, just an organized form of integration of all elected Members from that option.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12861	National MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12862	I must say, as a serious political party, that we have accepted this rotten compromise in 45 minutes to explain our amendments, for the simple reason that we believe that the citizens of Serbia should also in these three-bit 45 minutes, to understand the execution of such a proposal by the Rules of Procedure. I've submitted seven amendments, and I'm going to make it very brief, and I'm going to taxfully state for what reasons they've submitted. First of all, as regards Article 4 in the amendment, I asked that it be deleted, given that it maintains the restrictive and non-democratic character of the Rules of Procedure's proposal. It prevents any MP from expressing his opinion on the agenda, according to his obligation as a MP of the people, whom the people chose, and that people chose him, of course, to represent him adequately, because I consider the people to be the supreme political arbiter. Of course, none of these members in the Rules of Procedure are in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but this is the basic feature and manner of the well-known legalist Democratic Party of Serbia, which is otherwise the proposer of this Rules of Procedure. As far as Article 3rd of this proposal of the Rules of Procedure is concerned, it practically requires MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group to be very good athletes, because only the first three can get a word, so it wouldn't be a bad idea to make an athletic trail here and see who will be faster. I also suggested that Article 5 be deleted, because it is not clear to me by which methodology you have determined that the total time of the debate in principle for the parliamentary groups takes five hours, given that there is a possibility that these small parties and parties from DOS will begin to create their own parliamentary groups and reproduce as amoebes, and then by the logic of things, and technically you will not be able to classify them in those five hours. It is, of course, a reflection of the restrictiveness and indemnity of this Rules of Procedure. I also asked for Article 7 to be deleted, given that it prevents the case that the issue is not sufficiently discussed on the agenda, the right of the MPs to get the word back, and to contribute to a constructive debate, in order to bring the issue to an end and to find adequate solutions. As for Article 8, for which I have also suggested that it be deleted, narrowed down and violated the right of every MP to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, only the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary group are already granted exclusiveness. If you feel that only the presidents and representatives can do this to you, then an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, that is not the case with us. All 37 MPs can advertise their rules of procedure. I also suggested that Article 9 be deleted, given that I do not understand why it would not be possible to read the written text, if the president of this party, who proposed the Rules of Procedure, and unfortunately also the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, could read the written text. I also suggested that Article 11 be deleted, since I do not understand on what basis you are imposing fines and thus trying to silence the opposition. I'm sure our socialists won't make it. The last amendment I submitted was to Article 14 and I also suggested that it be deleted, given that the provisions of this proposal for a Rules of Procedure relating to the principle debate are not enough to discuss in the Government, and all of this is related to Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure where the rights are narrowed down, and restricts time for parliamentary groups and MPs to present their arguments against the Government or a certain ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12863	The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12864	I apologize in advance for probably repeating in one part of my discussion a part of the argument that I made during the previous debate on the draft amending Rules of Procedure and I will pay your attention to the two groups of amendments submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia. The first group refers to the proposal to delete Article 13. The Rules of Procedure, i.e. Rule 139, which suggests adding a new position 2 which reads as follows: "People's MPs who are members of the same parliamentary group can only submit one amendment to one member of the bill". In addition to the argument that you have so far had the opportunity to hear and presented by my colleague Slobodan Tomovic, I would like to remind the public and fellow MPs that it is Article 80(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribed that the law's right to propose should be given to the government, the Parliament of the AP, 15,000 voters and every MP. So any MP can propose law to parliament, can propose law on amendments and amendments to the law to Parliament, and under this Rules of Procedure will not be able to propose more than one amendment to one member. I think this solution is really in stark contrast to the Constitution. Unfortunately, this solution is not only contrary to the Constitution. We have been assured of this by many of the acts that this Parliament has brought, where retroactively the decisions of the Assembly, where the Government has deeply infiltrated its decisions and regulations into the legislative jurisdiction, where, under the Law on Extraprofit, the Law on Privatisation, we have also passed out many provisions of the Constitution, and then a little wonder is the story of the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because why change the Constitution when we do not have one now. As for Article 15, which introduces the interpretation, I will repeat my opinion. Each opposition party should be interested in having as much control and mechanisms as possible to control the government's work, and it is good that the interpretation was found in the proposal to amend this Rules of Procedure. It's for all praise. We have proposed a few amendments that this institute needs a little bit closer to reality and life and some restrictions that are also written in our Constitution and our Rules of Procedure. Interpletion is by its nature the institute, which is somewhat more difficult than the parliamentary issue, and is significantly less relieved than the launch of the procedure for confidence in the government. That's why I think the censorship that has been given, up to 50 MPs who can initiate impelation, is too high, team before being in Article 93(3). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says 20 MPs can raise a question of trust with the government. If that's the case with this harder institute, then it doesn't make sense for the interpretation, which is a milder form of government control than the question of trust, the censorship gets bigger. But that seems to me to be a minor problem for the interpretation as it is given here. A much bigger problem is the position of 2nd of this Article 200a, which says that at the time of one meeting of the National Assembly, a maximum of five interpretations can be submitted. I'm not against restrictions in principle. Neither must the opposition's right be misused by an excessive number of interpretations, but as it is given it is truly not known who will decide, nor whose interpretation will be on the agenda, nor will it be decided in any procedure. We are left to believe that the President of the National Assembly will take some of the criteria, whether the time is coming, or something not written in this proposal of the Rules of Procedure as a criterion, to determine whose interpretations will be seen by light days. I'm afraid it may happen that the interpretation, as it's written here, will allow part of the DOS in the Assembly to control part of the DOS that is in the government. It reminds me a little of the interpretation that was present in our legal system in the Constitution in 1974, when the one-sided assembly through the interpretation controlled the work of the one-sided government, or executive council as it was then called. I would like to be denied the practice and application of this Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12865	Mr. Rajko Baralic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12866	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have filed 11 meaningful amendments to the law. Two are accepted. I'll talk about one that's not, and that's an amendment to Article 11. The explanation I have given for this amendment is contained in one sentence - in the interest of the promoter of this shameful text, it is for the proposal to withdraw and save the honor and dignity of the National Assembly. This is a member who predicts that MPs can be pronounced, for a word spoken for in this pay phone, for fines. There is no one who is authorized to impose mandates on MPs, and that thing, if you will, is not just against the law, not just something that has to do with the suppression of rights and freedom and democracy in the Assembly itself, that question is bordered by good taste. In the explanation which you have given concerning the amendments and the additions of the Rules of Procedure, it is said, the Messenger of the people to whom the warning has been given is punished. That verb, gentlemen, does not stand in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It can't be found. It can be written - the measure is expressed, but it cannot be written - it is punished, if we really want this home to be worthy of us as the highest legislator in this country. Article 103b states that the final decision on the pronunciation of these measures shall be taken by the Administrative Committee. What happens if the Administrative Board does not take such a measure, and the President of the National Assembly, using this right under Article 103a, does so. You haven't solved in a legal and technical sense how all this is going to work. The National Assembly will be called today if it adopts a member of the 12th proposed Rules of Procedure. We won't be able or -- you won't be able to explain to Serbian citizens that this was possible to propose and that it was possible for the Serbian Parliament to adopt it. The SPS will respond strongly if this Rules of Procedure is adopted. We will find instruments and we will find and adjust the direction of our political action to new conditions, because the Rules of Procedure that you are about to adopt today will not allow MPs to perform their role here, and their own mission, if you will, in accordance with the law and the Constitution. The proposed Rules of Procedure are in stark contrast with Articles 77 and 80. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When you finally select the sufficient number of judges of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, we will ask that the court declare the constitutionality of this act, which is being adopted here today. There is still time for the National Assembly to withdraw all this from the procedure, for the president of the National Assembly to call once more on the heads of Parliament's clubs to make a new draft of the Rules of Procedure, which will be reached by consensus. The Democratic Rules of Procedure are only one based on the consensus of all political parties in one parliament. As you have suggested, the National Assembly will act in a way that is directly contrary to the Constitution, parliamentary practice, and regardless of the arguments you offer, there are not many experiences in Europe, the Rules of Procedure of a Parliament is at stake. You, of course, can do much more. Here, Mr Batic quoted Masarik several times, he said -- 100 years ago, Masarik said the essence of democracy was in the debate, not in the vote. I agree with what Masarik said and with what Mr Batic quoted. I think that really is the point. If this goes through, as suggested, it will turn out that we are only here to vote. The SPS will respond once again in a way that will obviously be in the post of further promotion of parliamentary democracy and democracy in general in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12867	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12868	In the act of democracy and by joining the debate into a single one, you were able to shorten the time of the discussion from 10 to five minutes. So you said all of this was supposed to be colochous and collective, so then you cut down on the heads of collective colchos the double right to talk. I've submitted a number of amendments and none of them are characterized, not even by you, either as offensive or rude. The only thing that's rude and offensive here is this proposal of yours, called the amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure. You will have to explain in which way the salary can be removed, for the MP in the working relationship in the Assembly is a worker. How can you take off two salaries all of a sudden, you'll have to explain it to me, because I know that a worker can take off 20% a month, it's a disciplinary measure, and 200 percent, I haven't heard that yet, and you'll have to find some law that you'll get into. So far, such a law has not even been written by you. You've put on only one amendment to put up a parliamentary group, and when we get to what's very important for everyone in Serbia, when we talk about the budget, so everyone comes from some environment and community, and they'll have to explain their environment. This way he won't be able to explain. You won't be able to explain yourself, who count as some kind of position. You've put an opportunity in an interpretation that's not a bad idea, but as it's been addressed, it's a question of whether it's good; if we can discuss bringing a minister here and talking about his 20-signs resolution, and we're asking for some information from the government's representatives, and maybe that same minister needs 50 signatures. The explanation that this should be a consensus of several political parties is a big question and I'll tell you one more thing -- there are various rude answers to this kind of a rude proposal. Therefore, we in the SPS will consider what is an adequate answer to your lame proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12869	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this debate, in accordance with the agreement of the heads of Parliament, shows in some way all the absurdity of the proposed amendments and additions to our Rules of Procedure. We Socialists have 45 minutes of time, and we still haven't been able to say nearly as much as we could say about the amendments. Imagine what it'll be like when we have 30 minutes for a full debate. I've submitted several amendments, and now I'm going to telegraphly comment on them because otherwise and I can't, I'm just going to explain them a few, first of all, those amendments concerning criminal provisions to the MPs. On the other hand, it is absurd for MPs to be fined, even by any other penalty, I would ask here: if the MP is punished by a fine of 20%, 50% of the salary or the full salary, unless he is constantly working on whether the fine will be denied by other receipts, including the parliamentary allowance. I remind you that the parliamentary supplement is not the personal reception of the MP and does not serve him personally, but the parliamentary supplement serves to cover the costs of working Members on the ground. Does this mean that the sentencing MP will be prevented from working in the field? Secondly, if 15 or 20 points of different legislative projects are found on the agenda of one session, which, in their form or essence, have no common links, but are on the same agenda of one session, what is the logical follow-up to the fact that an MP who has been punished by taking away the words at the first point has no right to participate in the debate on the points in the future work of that session, let's say by the fifth or sixth point, which refers to the matter that this MP knows best. What quality do we gain in the future work of the Assembly, except that this clearly indicates the proposing's intention to prevent the opposition from talking about these proposals that would be in the course of the session. I have no intention of accusing anyone, but it can be assumed that even those who chair this assembly can be at certain times and subjective, so deliberately make two warnings or, even, taking away words from one MP to prevent him from perhaps talking about another topic. Finally, when it comes to the right of MPs to propose amendments - please, in our experience so far, we have witnessed that several constructive, quality proposals and amendments under one member of the law can be found within a single parliamentary group, because there are variations on certain topics and there are variations that, perhaps, for the parliamentary majority in this House, might be acceptable. If a parliamentary group must be defined for just one solution, it prevents the quality of the debate in this parliament, as some other solutions that might be acceptable are lagging behind as a proposal by the parliamentary group. Therefore, I think that restriction is absurd and should not stand in this Rules of Procedure. I suggest that you, as most of you, be reasonable and accept those amendments that go in the direction of eradicating these proposals, which are criminal provisions and which prevent MPs from taking their own personal position and the position of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12870	I'm going to sum up this part of the debate in these I don't know how many minutes it's been. I must say that my participation is also about the very absurdity of how we will work in this House in the coming period, with the disabling of Members of Parliament to speak, to propose amendments, to explain proposals (and not their proposals, these are citizens' proposals) because there is part of the electoral body that has given these citizens the right and guaranteed by the Constitution that the rights of Members of Parliament can explain their proposals for this speaker. Many different things from different parts can be treated differently in this House. We are now at a time when many of these rights will definitely be abolished, and people's MPs will be prevented from presenting these rights in this house and talking about what is the greatest point of this moment, and that is how the Serbian government works. I've given some amendments that primarily concern the work that talks about privatisation. Why did I give those amendments? Because there's a lot of marketing, like we're advertising "son" coke, and on this side we're talking about privatisation, and it's nowhere to be found. There are stories of privatisation, there are talks about privatisation, there are various moves, and we have said privatisation = dollars or stamps for Serbia, for Serbian economy, for crafts, for the employment of young people, for social programmes, etc. None of it does, we still have a story. The Privatisation Committee should exercise control over the privatisation process. I was against it, for the simple reason that we already have a Committee on Finance and in the Privatisation Act, we said that we would control the privatisation process through the Finance Committee. Maybe it's good to have this board, too. I was prepared to withdraw that amendment, however, now it makes no sense for me to present it, nor to withdraw it, because it no longer concerns anyone. Finally, to say that I have the impression that this home is slowly and becoming less and less relevant to what is in Serbia, what about Serbian citizens? Why are miners in Lazarevec and Serbia strike? Why are the student demonstrations announced for tomorrow? Why are citizens protesting these days? I guess it's because they're pretty. Maybe what's ugly or hard for them. We're talking about how we're going to talk to each other and how we're going to communicate. Nothing's good. Perhaps we missed the topic in this session, we should talk about what really is the topic in Serbia, about how we will welcome February, March, how we will live in Serbia next year? Is there going to be any of that privatisation? Will there be a banking system in this country? Whether production in Serbia will rise from 11% to some higher level and whether prices will remain at least at this level that now exists in Serbia. Of course, no one will impose these subjects on this House. I have to say we won't take part in the vote. In the end, it is impossible in this way to complete this session. For the sole reasons of collegiation, we will listen to colleagues from the Serbian Unity Party, and after that we will leave this session, because we really don't think this makes any sense at all, and that's the only way for this session to end anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12871	It was the final presentation of the SPS representative. He has the word Mr. Pelevic, deputy president of the Soviet Parliament group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12872	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Union will not vote for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, because we consider such a Rules of Procedure to be unnecessarily democratic and we consider it restrictive in relation to the rights prescribed by the Constitution by the MPs. However, aware that the DOS majority in this assembly will vote in this Rules of Procedure, we have submitted 12 amendments, in the best intention that such a Rules of Procedure, which is really not good and which is restrictive, will improve if possible and if this majority adopts it. We must realise that today's meeting of the heads of parliament groups has a purpose, it only makes sense if they are carefully heard at least the most important amendments to the opposition and if these amendments, which are very serious, are adopted today at this session. If that doesn't happen, then this whole session, or this sequel, becomes an ordinary farce, which has no purpose or purpose at all. But let it be on the soul of the parliamentary majority in this assembly, or MPs of the DOS coalition. What is good in this Rules of Procedure is that the amendment will be accepted to set up a committee on Kosovo and Metohija. I sincerely hope that by establishing this committee on Kosovo and Metohija, this assembly will exercise control and influence on the functioning of the Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Centre. I think it is high time to exercise parliamentary control over these centres both for southern Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, since both governments, the Serbian government and the federal government have given too much authority and too much responsibility to the individuals leading these centres. I don't think it can be allowed for individuals to have so much responsibility and so much authority in managing the fates of hundreds of thousands of Serbs and other non-Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija. The Soviet Parliament also welcomes the adoption of amendments, which alters the work of the Defence and Security Committee several times, and which carries out parliamentary control over public and state security. I sincerely hope that this assembly, or the Defence and Security Committee, will in future exercise control, but indeed control of public security and state security, and I hope that Police Minister Dusan Mihajlovic will no longer dig up the mass graves of Albanians and will no longer find coolers. I hope that this committee will prevent it, and also this committee, hopefully, at least do everything to find murderers for many crimes in Serbia over the past years and to work to reduce the rate of crime in Serbia, and not just to arrest in the absence of the arrest of the defendants, the perpetrators and the perpetrators of the murders, to arrest the psychic Zorka, or to, say, arrest some insignificant individuals, in order to achieve the function of our police. Likewise, this Rules of Procedure, as good as it is not, and if adopted, will have no purpose at all, if the amendment of one MP is adopted, which suggests that this assembly works without a quorum and that this assembly makes decisions, or votes without quorum. What, then, is the existence of the National Assembly, and what, then, is the purpose of the MP? All comparisons of such rules of procedure, i.e. comparisons with the rules of procedure of some Western parliaments, do not stand, because we are not in a situation where France, Germany, England, we are in extraordinary circumstances, and at least for the next ten years we have to work as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, very intensively and much more than the parliaments of those countries, where there is no clause that there is a quorum in the vote. But there are clauses everywhere that when voting, there must be quorum, unless there has to be a debate. Therefore, I do not see the purpose of sitting in this assembly at all, because what will it mean if we, on the agenda, are having a debate in front of several MPs, what does that mean? Should we all fire our people's messengers and deal with something smarter than sitting in the National Assembly without any obligation? Dear gentlemen and ladies of the People's Parliaments, I hope, after these painful days of debate on this Rules of Procedure, that in the future we will address issues concerning citizens of Serbia, which is that very quickly we will talk about it, even if I hope - how will we deal with the elections in Kosovo and Metohija; how will we address the issue of Serbia-Montenegro's relationship; how will we resolve the awakening of separatistism in Vojvodina; how will we raise a common, all together, standard of living for our citizens; and how will we adopt the right system laws that our society should move forward? Therefore, the Soviet Union will not support this Rules of Procedure, but we hope that certain provisions of this Rules of Procedure, of individual amendments to the opposition, will consider the majority of the DOS carefully and will accept them, and at least thus allow as much of the fundamental right of the MP to speak on behalf of the citizens who elected him to the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12873	He has the word National MP Dragan Markovic - Palma.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12874	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Unity Party considers this Rules of Procedure, which will be adopted tonight or tomorrow, to be very harmful to all the MPs in this assembly. Because how are we going to discuss, in five minutes, say what's the problem in the city where we're elected and what's the problem in the county where we're elected? We think that ten minutes is a little time for the head of the Parliament Club, given that the old Rules of Procedure has given the head of the Parliament Club the right to discuss three times in 10 minutes, and how will the head of the Parliament Club criticise the government and the government in 10 minutes, and also, at that same session, discuss any new law? We also believe that 30 minutes per parliamentary group is little time, and that all MPs are saying what they think is wrong for this assembly speaker. And even if we remind ourselves that there are currently seven parliamentary clubs in this assembly, and what is the situation in Serbia, economic and social, and dissatisfaction of citizens, I think there will be another three or four parliamentary clubs in this assembly by the end of the year. The Serbian Unity Party has proposed several amendments. I personally suggested five or six amendments. I have proposed an amendment - unless 20% of MPs from one parliamentary group attend the session, that the same parliamentary group be punished 20% of those funds received from the government. If MPs do not come and are not present at the session, why would the parliamentary group have the same receipts, as well as those of MPs who regularly attend the session, such as the Serbian Unity Party. As far as impelation is concerned, the Soviet Union considers it, and I have proposed, personally, an amendment -- unless a government or minister report is accepted, and the report concerns what he is in charge of, that this assembly vote mistrust with the same minister. If there were a report on the work of the Minister for Agriculture at the meeting of the Assembly, in any case a report on agriculture, the minister in charge of the resolution himself would not have been given the trust of this assembly, I don't think even his own brother would vote for it. If we listen to his report these days on various TV stations, that agricultural producers live much better today than in 2000, and that they are satisfied with the price of grain, and the price of grain was in December 7 dinars, and from December to the day today we know that the electricity price went over 240%, that the fuel was then 20 dinars for agricultural producers. Here, now begins the autumn sowing, no regressed oil, no one talks about the autumn sowing. The report on the minister's work may well be how many deer he killed in poaching. It is also about interpretation, if the agenda was tied to the finance minister, his work report and the result were as he gave the blood. If there's a human being, he doesn't need to take 10 cameras to the hospital and take pictures when he's giving blood. Also, the report on the work of the finance minister is that he gives children ice cream in Alexinco. Let him make sure their parents buy their children ice cream, good wages, fatter envelopes, not like now. They say 80 marks were paid in 2000, and today the salary is on average 200 marks. For what we had for 80 marks in 2000, we need 410 marks today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12875	Mr. Markovic, please return to the amendment debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12876	How come I'm lucky you're the one who presides when I speak? (President: As if it were a free topic, such is your exposure. Please talk about the amendments. Obviously, you weren't listening. Also, if the report on the work of Mr. Minister is how he lifted the TV subscription - these days we get a new TV subscription, which will be three stamps, gentlemen, and before it was a stamp and something - but at all the sessions and all the conferences, he says the result was up to four months ago and there's no more TV subscription, because he says that citizens paid TV subscription and on buildings used as stables, on buildings that are used as knock-offs and that he's introducing it now, and he's just going to pay whoever has TV. But he doesn't know, because he lived in Paris, and Paris is a modern city, and I'm gonna buy a computer, and I'm gonna watch TV over the computer, so he won't be able to charge me a TV subscription.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12877	Mr. Markovic, amazing. The word is Petar Petrovic, a National MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12878	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, before I move on to the amendments that I have made to this proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to say that I was one of those unscheduled members of the task force who was to make a proposal for a new Rules of Procedure, but unfortunately, my colleague Lukic and I have come from Jagodina twice to this assembly and this working assembly has never started working. In addition to us, representatives of the SPS regularly attended meetings, the only DOS representative was not. When we looked at this proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure, me and my colleague knew where the wind came from, that is, why DOS representatives did not want to come to scheduled working groups meetings to draft a decision on the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, in front of the Soviet Union, I have submitted only three amendments, wanting to improve the text of the motion for a decision as much as possible through these amendments, knowing that the majority in this House will adopt what is proposed. I have tried, regardless of my knowledge and my belief that this proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is not good and does not satisfy the basic democratic principles, both Serbia and Europe, to improve it as much as possible and to improve how much democracy and democracy there is in the proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have suggested that in Article 8 of the amending and supplementing the Decision, the text is added, i.e. the new text, reads that -- besides the president and vice-president of the parliamentary group, the right to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure has two other representatives, or the MPs of the parliamentary group; because the president, or vice-president of the parliamentary group, may not be present in the hall, at the time of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and that the parliamentary group would have as many opportunities as possible to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, with each parliamentary group prior to the beginning of each session, each day, having to submit a list of these MPs who, in addition to the President and the Vice-Presidents, have the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure. I believe that nothing is lost, even I think it is obtained and that it gives opportunity to all the MPs present in the hall (if their MP group has appointed them) that they can pay attention to controlling whether the work at the session takes place in accordance with the established rules of procedure. I also suggested that Article 10 and Article 11 be deleted. Proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The reason for this proposal is very simple. I would not like to quote the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia which, in Article 23 and Article 124, says very clearly when fines can be provided and for which actions fines can be provided. That's what many speakers used to say before me, but I'd like to draw attention to the next one. The Rules of Procedure on the work of this National Assembly, as well as the Rules of Procedures on the work of other bodies and bodies in the Republic of Serbia, such as the Rules of Procedures on the work of municipal assemblies, such as the Rules of Procedures on the work of various boards of directors and the like, are, allow ladies and gentlemen, a technical means to regulate the work of that body and thus simply standardise how and how it will work, how it will regulate discipline and so on. So, it's not a law that prescribes fines, because right after that, it has to be prescribed who enforces those sanctions. There's no such thing here. Secondly, in this Rules of Procedure, or in the proposal, there is no two-stage decision-making in Articles 10 and 11, which is the basic democratic right and democratic obligation that if a person is punished for something, or given any sanctions, he must be given the opportunity to protect his right with a competent authority. Whether it will be with the Administrative Board of this Assembly or with some authority of the municipal court or other body of this State, that is the question and should have been foreseen in this Rules of Procedure. Third, if this DOS majority adopts such proposed solutions, how do you charge a fine from an MP who is not on permanent duty in the National Assembly? Simply, there are many MPs who earn salaries at work where they work, and there their wages are much higher than the pay of the MP, so they have the right to a flat. You'll allow it. The cobwebs aren't paid. Paushal is a supplement on the salary, as well as many other supplements that are received. Maybe there's an MP who receives a disability or receives a child's allowance or something, which doesn't make everything a basic profit, doesn't make a salary. It's simple, it's a reception. Those receipts must be protected. On the other hand, it conflicts directly with the law of a proposal for such measures in the Rules of Procedure, as some positive regulations provide that on the salary of an employee, and whoever is on permanent work in the Assembly or an MP who is identified with such an employee, may be suspended until a certain amount. So it can't be someone's family, because he's been disciplined in this congregation, to be left without food, or without the right to provide for the existence of that family whose family he's the feeder. I find it particularly worrying that there have been many comparisons here of this proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, with the Rules of Procedures of France, Germany, Italy and I do not know which developed European countries. Blessed are we, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, and especially the Proposers, when we have reached that point to compare the Rules of Procedure with the rules of procedure of these developed countries, which is not compared by the gentlemen who are proposing something else with these countries. And finally, what I particularly want to point out, and let the public hear, on the Legislative Committee, one of the legislators who proposed these changes and additions said that these changes and additions were with OSCE experts and that they agreed on these changes. Well done, and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12879	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe the last time I speak before, perhaps, a hundred MPs. It is since the next session, when this Rules of Procedure is adopted and that the quorum is not required either at the time of the vote or during the discussion, that I may speak only to the Madam Chairman. I have submitted three amendments to the draft Rules of Procedure. Fortunately, after ten months, something was accepted, my commanding member of the 9th proposal (which regulated the reading of the written speech) was accepted, and this was a suggestion and a proposal from the Soviet Parliament group and I would not waste this precious time. Article 13 of the Rules of Procedure states that the amendment to individual members of the law can only be submitted by one member of the parliamentary group, or by one MP from the same parliamentary group. In this regard, I would like to give an explanation: the proposed solution is contrary to the provisions of Article 76. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to which the MP represents the citizens of the electoral unit in which he is elected; it turns out that it is the right of every MP to submit amendments expressing the will of the voters. The proposed amendment does not restrict the right of MPs, and the proper rationalisation of the work of the National Assembly is being carried out, which was also the aim of reducing the time of work of the National Assembly, as well as preventing possible obstruction in the work of the Assembly and so on. So there is no interference with the work of the Assembly that, from the same parliamentary group, individual MPs can submit two or more amendments. But I agree with the fact that these amendments can't be the same text, so that only three or four MPs come out. In my opinion, maybe that would be unnecessary. In Article 15 relating to the interpretation, I, in principle, said in my previous announcement in the discussion that we welcome and that it should be, but I also pointed out then, and this time I want to underline, that 20 MPs are enough to submit a proposal for interpretation. I support this - 20 MPs are enough to be signatories for the impeachment of the Minister and Government, which I believe is not at all of the greatest importance, but when it takes 50 MPs to sign a proposal for impelation. The purpose and purpose are the same. Therefore, my command suggests that in the new article 200a, the words "at least 50" are replaced by the words "at least 20 MPs. "Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12880	The word is made by MP Jovan Deretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12881	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to article 11 concerning the punishments of Members of Parliament. I suggested that this member be deleted for reasons he opposes the Constitution of Serbia, four members of the Serbian Constitution. For this to be in front of your eyes, I'll read those articles. It is a member of the 77th indent 2) - "The MP cannot be called to criminal responsibility, detained or punished for his opinion or voting in the National Assembly. "Article 80th indent 2) - "The right to propose laws, other regulations and general acts has a government, every MP, an autonomous province assembly or at least 15,000 voters. "Article 48. "The citizen has the right to publicly criticise the work of state and other bodies and organisations and officials, to submit performances, petitions and proposals to them and to get an answer if he asks for it. "Article 23. "No one can be found guilty of a crime until it is found by a judicial decision. "Lords, we give the right to one of the colleagues who presides in this House to impose penalties that are contrary to the four members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If this businessman is adopted, we must publicly say that with today's day parliamentary democracy ends in Serbia and that this will be the first day of DOS-manley dictatorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12882	The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12883	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia. It is known that the aim of adopting such additions and amendments to the Rules of Procedure is precisely to prevent obstruction of work in the National Assembly. However, another question is being asked - did it take a little more and a little bit more and a little more thought and a better and a fairer way to deal with this problem? The problem is not just the ruling majority. This is the problem of all of us MPs coming to this home with serious intentions and having a serious part in the work of this congregation and who are responsible for our constituents. Lately, and especially since this session started, I have often had opportunities for citizens to meet me and ask what is actually being done in the Assembly, why is the atmosphere so unserious? This also applies to the previous assembly, which discussed quite insignificant topics. You must understand that we from the opposition are also responsible for our voters, that each of us represents 20,000 - 30,000 citizens and that each of us is very difficult to explain to the citizens that he does not really participate in everything that is happening here. Your position and opinion that it is only the opposition who embarrasses himself in this assembly and that the opposition is the only one who can be blamed for the ineffectiveness of the work of the Assembly, does not stand. Perhaps you are not aware of this, however, the dissatisfaction of the people is also directed towards the ruling position, for the very reasons that are stated, these are: putting on the agenda of insignificant points, holding discussions on quite side issues, and leaving aside those issues that the citizens are most interested in. When it comes to this amendment and the addition of the Rules of Procedure, there are several objections that are principled and that have not come at all from our parliamentary group to obstruct, but to correct this text. The limitation of the time of discussion is quite unconstitutional and completely affecting the rights of MPs and we need to look at it from another aspect. What to say to that MP who went out for this pay phone 5 or 10 times since the start of this session, that MP who was constructively involved in the work, who was making constructive proposals and amendments that improved the text, and now that MP gets a minute - two or two and a half minutes and is practically limited as a man and as a representative of so many citizens. If it were to come from the assumption that all of us in the parliamentary groups are equally responsible and that we all have the same rights, it would be quite incorrect if one group of MPs, of them hundreds, represented two or three after this speaker. The other MPs can practically go home and I think the work of this assembly, which will in practice show, will be very problematic since the next session. It is clear to us that this text will be adopted and we are sorry, because we have not at all contributed to such a text. It is also pointless for only the president of the parliamentary group to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because we simply think that it is a moment of attention when one of the MPs before the breach of the Rules of Procedure, we do not see a single reason why the other MPs cannot use it. I have the opportunity for my colleague to tell me that some MPs abuse should have been resolved in another way, not by punishing all MPs, and you, too, fellow Members, are punished in this way and you must be aware of that. In the event of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you should run quickly to your head of Parliament club, Cedomir Jovanovic, to whisper it to him, to do so before the president of the Assembly moves on to something next, which will be extremely impractical if the head of the parliamentary club has not noticed it. You're fast, so you'll get out of there soon. The fine is extremely humiliating for these MPs, and I'm only going to say that those MPs who came here to receive that salary and if they came for pay should seriously consider their appearance in this room, because I think we came here to give something of ourselves, not to take and that's our only goal. By doing so, my colleague Petrovic explained very closely that there is no point and legal basis to punish MPs in this way. I'll just say two more things. I've submitted two amendments. One amendment refers to Article 12, and that Article 12 is actually a correction of Rule 105 of the Rules of Procedure. Article 105. The Rules of Procedure extremely correctly edited this matter and I see no single reason to introduce this way, as these amendments and additions were given. Article 105 votes out: "The measures put forward by the President of the National Assembly shall be applied as a search takes place at the point of the agenda in which they are spoken, and the measure given by the National Assembly shall be applied for the session at which it is given." I think this introduction to apply the measure for 20 days, so if the session lasts longer or shorter, it brings one big confusion and quite unnecessary and for no reason complicated and such a complicated situation. As far as the amendments to Article 15 are concerned, I have proposed that the Government declare its interpretation within 15 days. If the government knows what it's doing, I don't think there's any reason why we're leaving it for 30 days to respond to the interpretation, because that's the problem that's being relativated, and the question becomes insignificant. Maybe after 30 days, it's not happening anymore, and it's losing all that to the point. I'm just going to say one more thing, and it seems to me that the objective of all these unserious proposals and unserious discussions, and in this I'm not singleing out anyone in particular, that this assembly appears to be unserious, irresponsible, and that seems to be the goal of many, and the goal is to show that the government is expert, valuable, smart, loyal to this state, and that the Assembly is irresponsible, irresponsible, and that it is not doing its job well. I think anyone who's involved in this should find their part of the guilt and actually have to apply the current Rules of Procedure, but go with the right topics, and we wouldn't come to this situation that we've come to.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12884	Does anyone else in the parliamentary group want a word? No, I don't. ) Before you begin the presentation, I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum to work with. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Zirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12885	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course we're working on the edge of the quorum, but that means I'm going to have disciplined listeners or maybe I'm optimistic for no reason. In any case, I welcome the agreement of the parliamentary groups to adopt by consensus that, in finalising this item of the agenda on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, all parliamentary groups receive equal treatment, so that they can explain their amendments for 45 minutes, i.e. participate in a single debate. The New Serbia parliamentary group has proposed five amendments. The Legislative Committee gave the green light to the amendments, or in polite form, said there were no legal interferences for them to adopt. The Governing Board did not give the green light, but that does not mean that you will listen to the decision of the Administrative Board, but that you will simply judge by the argument that I shall make for the individual amendments, whether the amendments are simply opportunised and useful in our matter. It is certain that the amendments of the Rules of Procedure have been extorted. Had it not been for obstruction but for the destruction of the work of the Assembly, the old Rules of Procedure could have fulfilled its obligation. If you'll excuse me, I will be taxing on all the amendments submitted by the DOS-New Serbia parliamentary group. So in Article 5, paragraph 1, we predicted that the changes were made and said, "The total time of the debate is in principle obtained by a collection of time of 30 minutes per Member's group plus one minute per MP." I am sorry that the representatives, or MPs of the opposition, are not present now, I believe that they would support this amendment, because in this way all parliamentary groups are being placed in one treatment, and, of course, the time of the presentation depends on the number of MPs forming one parliamentary group. So, for example, the SPS would have half an hour and how many are 37 she would have 37 minutes left. It's 67 minutes - enough to explain their position. Of course, in proportion to that, other parliamentary groups would have guaranteed a quota. This fixed quota of five hours would have been modified, so the duration of the debate in principle would have been proportionate to the strength of a particular parliamentary group, but, of course, it was taken into account and so on. serious discrimination, so that each parliamentary group has a time in which it can explain its amendments, i.e. it can explain the debate under each law. So these were our motives that fit into the general intensity of the change of the existing Rules of Procedure. So the general intensity is to simply strengthen the efficiency of the Assembly and that legislative work, for which this Assembly is competent, is given its primary part, i.e. its primary importance. In the second amendment, we proposed that Article 11, and in relation to Article 103a, the first and second positions be deleted and in paragraph 3 instead of the words "in the height of one month's salary", the words "half a month's salary". Our intention was to halve the existing penalties in some way. Although a fine of one month's salary for a taken word was intended, we believe that the punishment would be appropriate and would achieve its purpose and if it were half a month's salary. In that part, the concern of some speakers that certain MPs could not be sanctioned simply does not stand. Everyone can be sanctioned, if not from a salary they don't receive here, because they have a bigger job, they'll be punished by the cobwebs. Finally, if MPs perform in an inadequate manner, then the penalty is justified and appropriate. So, in the position of 4th of the same Member 103a in the part where the disfellowshipping from the session is sanctioned (which basically ends here in a parade made up of a single parliamentary group, and now not present) the moment when the MP was disfellowshipped from the session was the punishment of two months' wages, we believe that one month's salary would achieve its purpose. Generally speaking, we've managed that penalties should exist, they should be appropriate, but they don't have to be very drastic. In the third amendment tabled by the DOS-New Serbia parliamentary group, our intervention refers to the same member, and with the new member 103b, the position of 2 changes and reads: "The people's regular working MP is being taken away from his income for the current month." We're basically just fixing the existing text, because it says it's being taken away until the purpose is fulfilled. Of course, one who is in constant labor can be taken in one piece. Paragraph 4. We suggest that it reads: "The MP who is away from the session has no right to any compensation as long as the session from which he is disfellowshipped is." It's simple, if it's a violation of that kind, then the punishment must be sharper. So, while we generally advocate a milder punishment for those who are prone to the most serious offenses, we foresee the punishment that no income can be achieved during the period of its duration. In the fourth, the latest amendment, the DOS-New Serbia parliamentary group, decided to intervene in the proposed text. We say that after Article 12, a new Article 12a should be added, which reads: "In determining the quorum, present MPs in the hall are obliged to identify themselves. If they do not register their presence, the president of the assembly shall give them a warning. The measures are being taken during one session, and after three warnings, fines are foreseen in the amount of punishment for taking away words." Of course, when we did this, we simply had in mind that those people who are prone to offense must suffer the consequences. If the relapsers are, of course, if during one session it becomes chronic with them, they must also suffer certain fines afterwards. Thanks to the fact that the debate is unique and we speak both in principle and in particular, I will complete my presentation that I had at the beginning of the session, when we spoke in principle debate. I will speak simply of the Institute of Interpletion, which was first introduced into our parliamentary practice in times of communism and post-Communism. Thus, the New Serbia parliamentary group believes that the Security Committee can get greater powers and that during the transition period it is dealing with the work of the State Security Service or Udba, as it continues to be popularly called. I had a chance to read my file in the regional Udba in Užica and saw that I was closely monitored from 1980 to 1991. There's about 200 pages of text there. Of course, reading that file was attended by their operative; the government regulation forbidded me to record, copy, simply register everything that was written there. Here, in a random and informal conversation, I was told that there are people who also have a record. I certainly don't belong among the champions, but, let's say, Mr Jacimovic of DOS said he read his file for three days and that he has over 500 pages. This is a convenient opportunity for all MPs in this assembly to reassess the work of the State Security Service, regardless of which MP group they belong to, or foreigners, make one common interpretation to review the work of the National Security Service, and of course the appropriate address is the MUP. I also believe, and I suppose the other people who have a record, that in that interpretation we should demand the following... I don't see any need... I can't see, sir, why you're angry. [[growls]] I take it you weren't an operational employee of the State Security Service. There are people here who have been victims of communism, but I guess we're not their trabs. So, I suggest the Czech model: when the Czech national security files were discovered, all the names of the suppliers, snitches, tasters, etc. have been made public. Of course, the victims were not told, but in the place where the local Ubiquit was working, their list was made public. For example, by reading my file, I found ten conspiring names of spies who followed what they themselves were talking about. So one martyr named Bora, I don't know who that is, 80% of the reports are his. Well, there's a Noka, so there's a fisherman, so there's a Bijic, so there's a Master, etc. So, I suggested that, using the Institute of Interpletion, we make enough signatures to review the work of the State Security Service, and to act on what I suggest. Of course, it will only be current once we've done it in writing and processed it. I'm going to finish this presentation and I'm going to say one of our general views. The New Serbia parliamentary group will vote for changes and additions to the Rules of Procedure. We hope that later, in the declaration of amendments, the existing text will be corrected. We believe that this proposal is quite enough to improve the work of the Assembly, as the Supreme Legislative Body.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12886	There's a word from MP Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12887	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Movement for Democratic Serbia has submitted a few amendments to the following members: on Article 1, it has proposed the introduction of a new member of the 3a and to Article 4. First of all, on Article 1st of the Movement for Democratic Serbia, Mr Kovacevic submitted an amendment erasing the introduction of a privatisation committee. Not because we are against the Privatisation Committee, but because we believe that resolution committees are already dealing with this problem and that in this way they are taking part in empowering certain committees. For example, the Industry Committee is involved in privatising companies and businesses, and what about those committees in which the information business is, for example, privatising a cultural institution. We believe that the resolution committees must participate in this process, in the control of privatisation. The second amendment refers to Article 3a, which requires the introduction of a quorum only at the beginning of the session, when the agenda is adopted, then, at the time of the declaration, i.e. voting for the law, decision or any other decision that lies before the National Assembly. Article 3a does not need to be explained, so the purpose is not to seek quorum during the principle debate. The third amendment we have submitted is to Article 4 which speaks of the time and order of speakers, or participants in the discussion. What's this about? In Article 4(2) of the first indent, in the course of the search, the Member shall have the right to receive one more word over the order, when requested, for reasons of five minutes. The draft act, whether it is a government, a group of MPs or one MP, gets another five minutes when it asks for a word to explain the proposed law, or another act. The 2nd indent also increases time for the committee's rapporteurs by another five minutes, but after approval of the president of the assembly. In the third indent, the president, or representative of the parliamentary group, gets another 10 minutes, means 20 minutes in total. In doing so, 10 minutes at the beginning and 10 minutes at the end of the discussion when giving the final word. In the next indent, time increases by five minutes to the government's representative when the government is not proposing acts. It shall also, when requested through order in order to give reasons, i.e. the results of the discussion and the debate, if necessary. The following is: "If one MP says, time can be divided into three parts, ten minutes each. If more than one MP speaks, individual exposure cannot last more than 10 minutes." Why? To introduce dynamics into the discussion and not to let an MP who is an expert in a particular area be behind a pay phone for 45 minutes at a time and thus bring monotony into the discussion. His discussion, and if he is the only participant from his parliamentary group, should be broken down to different time periods, when arguments will oppose one another, i.e. in accordance with the proposed amendment that MPs of different parliamentary groups speak alternately. In short, these amendments to Article 4 aim to achieve and raise time for certain participants in the debate and to reduce the rigidity of the new draft Rules of Procedure, and to introduce a dynamic that is focused on the adoption of as high-quality and better legislative proposals as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12888	There's a word from the People's Messenger Miroslav Christodulo.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12889	I won't be long, just to remind you that I have submitted the amendment, so of the nine amendments that I have submitted, one is crucial, and that is the amendment to add Article 3a after Article 3a, which determines that the quorum is determined at the beginning of the session and continues to be evaluated by the President of the National Assembly when it is necessary in the function of the successful work of the National Assembly to determine the quorum. So, in practice, it would be when the debate was exhausted in principle and should be put to the vote in principle and in particular. So, unlike some other amendments submitted by other MPs, I do not require quorum even when voting, and that explains that the parliamentary groups, which are in the interest of having as many of their MPs in the hall, will decide. Not to choke anymore, since I've already talked about this in the debate in principle, to remind you, it means Article 3a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12890	Thank you. There's a word from MP Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12891	I will try to be brief in my humble attempt to contribute to the democracy of these proposed amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure on Labour. I have proposed four amendments, two of which are fully contained in the proposed amendments by Mr Panajotovic and Pavlovic. I will therefore say only a word or two for amendments that have failed to provide minimum support on the Administrative Committee, and one and the other concerns the rights of MPs who do not act within the parliamentary groups. So those MPs who belong to minority parties, parties that have fewer members -- so to enable them to have one such solution. With these proposed changes, if you've registered it, they can come up with a five-minute word by getting the first three word. Of course, in order not to have some race and not to lead the chairman into an uninvited situation, I have proposed an amendment that regulates that MPs acting outside the parliamentary group have the right to discuss for 10 minutes, with the right not being able to use those MPs whose parties have a parliamentary club. Thus, it prevents the abuse of this attitude. This is why you have to understand us, who act within the framework of the wider parliamentary clubs, and as small parties, can happen to figure out as a simple quantum. We could never explain it to our voters, that we simply don't have the opportunity to go out and react to certain things that our voters would think we should react to. I'd like you to support my amendment, but if it doesn't support it, we'll be looking for a solution for our actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12892	Is there anyone else from the Democratic Opposition of Serbia's parliamentary group reporting for a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does the Proposer’s representative want the word? No, I don't. ) Then we completed this part of the session, which ran according to the agreement of the representatives, i.e. the president of the parliamentary groups, and we move on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Please state by voting. It was not against 122 abstentions, there was no vote of 11, a total of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Stanko Kovacevic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Please state by voting. For four, against 119, two abstentions, 10 did not vote, a total of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Sreten Mitrovica, Đura Lazic and Ljubisa Maravic submitted to the 1st amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. (Employee Dejan Mihajlov, from the post: Proposer accepts this amendment. Then there's no voting, just to be clear. I ask you to strictly take care, since there is no debate, that you follow exactly what amendments are about. So, we don't have a vote here, because a proposaling representative has come forward. (Employee Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic, from the post: But the Administrative Committee did not accept, and then we must vote. So we need a vote. Please, let's go with the amendment again. National MPs Sreten Mitrovica, Đura Lazic and Ljubisa Maravic submitted to the 1st amendment. (It is about the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. ) The proposing representative agreed, accepted the amendment, the Administrative Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Please state that by voting. For 107, against 9, the abstention of three, was not voted by 14, a total of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Jocic submitted an amendment, which essentially suggested that a new member be added after Article 1, which amends Article 47. Rules of Procedure. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible and that the amendment has become an integral part of the proposal for a decision. The 2nd amendment was essentially submitted by MPs Dragan Tomic and Stanko Kovacevic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Please state by voting. It wasn't against 122, abstention three, it wasn't 9. A total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Please state by voting. It was not against 124, abstentioned three, it did not vote 8, a total of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Please state by voting. For one, against 129, two abstentions, four, a total of 136 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladimir Garčević submitted to the 2nd amendment. The representatives of the proposing, the Administrative Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Please state by voting. For it was not, contrary to 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The representatives of the proposing, the Administrative Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Please state by voting. For one, against 126, two abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Sreten Mitrovica, Đura Lazic and Ljubisa Maravic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment... It's a text that's bound, or... This is the subject of the Committee's work, which was accepted by the proposer's representative. I've got a mistake here, I'm sorry. The proposing representative accepted, the Administrative Committee did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 114, against 11 abstentions, 5 did not vote 5, a total of 135 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Velimir Simonovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new member be added to Article 78 after Article 2. The Rules of Procedure shall amend Article 3. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 14, against 116, two abstentions, four, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 3rd amendment in the same text, the people's emissaries Dragan Tomic and Milan Jankovic submitted. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For three, against 123, two abstentions, did not vote 8, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Živodarka Dacin, submitted to the 3rd Amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For one, against 128, the two abstentions, did not vote 5, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Branislav Blazic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For one, against 129, a abstentioned one, did not vote 5, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. There were no, against 130, abstentions, no 5 votes, a total of 135 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Rajko Baralic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For one, against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 8, a total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Milorad Mircic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For two, against 120, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 14, a total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladimir Garčević submitted to the 3rd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For there were, against 128, two abstentions, no vote was taken by 6, a total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 10, against 111 abstentions 8, did not vote 7, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For one, against 127, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 8, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Velimir Simonovic submitted an amendment to Article 3 proposing a new article 79. Rules of Procedure. The proposing representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 116, abstentions 8, two, a total of 136 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroslav Christodulo submitted an amendment with a supplement, proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a, which is being amended in Article 80. Rules of Procedure. The Management Board has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does the Proposer's representative accept this amendment? (No) I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 41, against 58, abstention 31, did not vote 6, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Stanko Kovacevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a, which is being amended in Article 80. Rules of Procedure. The proposing representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 108, the abstentions of four, did not vote 5, a total of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milisav Petkovic and Pal Shandor have tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a, which is being amended in Article 80. Rules of Procedure. The proposing representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 66, against 64, with five abstentions, two, a total of 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milos Nesovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The proposing representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 126 abstentions, the 6, a total of 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Branko Ružić, Rajko Baralić, Stevan Ž. Gudurić, Zoran Radovanović, Radojko Petrovic, JovanTodorović, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Dragan Tomić, Milorad Mirčić, Hranislav Perić, Vladimir Garčević, Golub Rajić, Zarko Obradović, Slobodan Tomović, Bora Stanimirović, Đura Lazić, Ljubisa Maravić, Bozidar Vucurović and a group of MPs: Stevan Lilic, Leila Ruždić - Trifunović and Marin Kresic. The proposing representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, v. 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, a total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12893	National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The proposing representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. There was, against 130, one abstention, no vote of 6, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The proposing representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 129, two abstentions, 5 did not vote, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The proposing representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 128, two abstentions, did not vote 6, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The proposing representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 127, three abstentions did not vote 6, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The proposing representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 130, there were no abstentions, no 5 votes, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 130, there were no abstentions, no 5 votes, a total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was submitted by MPs Ljubomir Mucic, Zivodarka Dacin, Nebojsa Jovic, Milan Jankovic and Zlatan Jovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 129 abstentions, four, a total of 136 MPs, did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 4 of the amendment, supplemented by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 101, abstentions 7, did not vote 8, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, versus 120, the abstentions of four, did not vote 6, a total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MPs Tomislav Panajotovic and Dragan Pavlovic. Since this amendment has been adopted by a representative of the proposings and the Administrative Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the proposal for a decision. The amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 107, against 24, a abstentioned one, did not vote four, a total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 108, abstentions 6, there was no vote of 8, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Stevan Lilic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic and Marin Kresic have tabled an amendment suggesting that a new Article 4a be added after Article 4a, which is followed by Article 87. The Rules of Procedure shall be added by a new member of 87a. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 104 abstentions, three did not vote 8, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Branko Ružić, Stevan Ž. Gudurić, Zoran Radovanovic, Ljubomir Mucic, Radojko Petrić, Slobodan Pavlovic, Jovan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Dragan Tomic, Milorad Mirčić, Vladimir Garčević, Rajko Baralić, Nebojsa Jović, Golub Rajić, Zarko Obradović, Slobodan Tomović, Bora Stanimirović, Đura Lazić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Dragan Marković, Dragan Todorovic, Milan Jankovic, Ljubisa Marović and Zoran D. Nikolic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 128, two abstentions, 5 did not vote, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Rada Bajic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 124, with four abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 126, two abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For, against 120, the abstention of four, was not voted by 12, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MPs Tomislav Panajotovic and Dragan Pavlovic. Since this amendment has been adopted by a representative of the proposings and the Administrative Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the proposal for a decision. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Petrovic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 105, with 5 abstentions, there were no votes of 8, a total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Istvan Ispanovic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 104 abstentions, 5 did not vote 12, a total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12894	The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 96, abstentions 6, there was no 13 vote, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 111 abstentions 6, there was no 9 vote, a total of 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 117 abstentions, 9 did not vote, a total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 6th amendment, in the same text, the Members of the People submitted: Stevan Gudurić, Ljubomir Mucic, Radojko Petrovic, Joca Arsic, Dragan Tomić, Vladimir Garčević, Rajko Baralić, Zoran Radovanovic, Nebojsa Jović, Zarko Obradović, Bora Stanimirović and Gordana Pop-Lazic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 11, a total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. No one, against 125, with four abstentions, voted 9, a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment were submitted by MPs Milisav Petkovic and Pal Shandor. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 26, against 95, with 5 abstentions, 12, a total of 138 MPs attended. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the national parliaments: Stevan Gudurić, Rajko Baralić, Radojko Petrovic, Joca Arsic, Dragan Tomic, Vladimir Garčević, Zoran Radovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Bora Stanimirović, Branko Ružić and Dragan Todorovic submitted the same amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 125, three abstentions, 9 did not vote, a total of 138 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. No one, against 127, with three abstentions, voted 9, a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 121, a abstentioned one, was not voted 15, a total of 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Istvan Ispanovich. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 106, abstentions, 9 did not vote 13, a total of 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Proposal to add a new Article 71 after Article 7. National MP Miroslav Christodulo submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 7a be added after Article 7a amending Article 93. Rules of Procedure. People's MP Miroslav Christodulo is giving up the amendment. National MPs: Stevan Gudurić, Rajko Baralić, Radojko Petrovic, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Dragan Tomic, Milorad Mirčić, Velimir Simonović, Vladimir Garčević, Zoran Radovanovic, Branko Ružić, Nebojsa Jović, Zarko Obradović, Hranislav Perić, Bora Stanimirović and Dragan Todorovic submitted the same amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 118, two abstentions, did not vote 16, a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 8th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 124, a abstentioned one, was not voted 12, a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 121, a abstentioned one, was not voted 14, a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 8th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For it was not, against 123, abstentioned three, not voted 12, a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven, against 106, with four abstentions, he did not vote 21, a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs: Stevan Gudurić, Ljubomir Mucic, Rajko Baralić, Radojko Petrić, Istvan Išpanovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Jovan Todorovic, Joca Arsić, Dragan Tomić, Miroslav Krisodulo, Velimir Simonović, Vladimir Garčević, Branko Ružić, Nebojsa Jović, Zarko Obradović, Slobodan Tomović, Bora Stanimirović, Đura Lazić, Zivra Selaković, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Dragan Todorovic, Ljubisa Maravić, Zoran D. Nikolic and joint MPs Milisav Petkovic and Pal Šandor. Since this amendment has been adopted by a representative of the proposings and the Administrative Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the proposal for a decision. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 117 abstentions, there was no vote of 20, a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Joca Arsic proposed to delete the article with one amendment. 10, 11 and 12. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Four, against 118, with four abstentions, were not voted by 12, a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs: Stevan Gudurić, Rajko Baralić, Radojko Petrovic, Jovan Todorovic, Dragan Tomić, Velimir Simonović, Hranislav Perić, Vladimir Garčević, Nebojsa Jović, Bora Stanimirović, Boris Drakulović, Petar Petrovic, Dragan Todorovic, Zoran D. Nikolić, Zivanko Radovančević and Zarko Obradović submitted the same amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 119 abstentions, two did not vote 14, a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To inform the MPs, since there has been some illogicalness about the order given at the meeting of the National Assembly, that the Legislative Committee will hold another session tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. to resolve these issues. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 122, abstentioned three, was not voted 13, a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milisav Petkovic and Pal Shandor. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Please state by voting. For 7, against 112, abstentions 6, there was no 13 vote, a total of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The proposal to add a new member of the 10th to Article 10 was submitted by MPs Milisav Petkovic and Pal Shandor. It shall amend Article 103(1). Rules of Procedure. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Please state by voting. For one against 120 abstentions, 6 were not voted 10, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 11th amendment, in the same text, the MPs : Jovan Deretić, Stevan Ž. Gudurić, Rajko Baralić, Radojko Petrić, Slobodan Pavlovic, Jovan Todorovic, Toma Busetic, Dragan Tomic, Velimir Simonović, Hranislav Perić, Zoran Radovanovic, Vladimir Garčević, Branko Ružić, Nebojsa Jović, Zarko Obradović, Bora Stanimirović, Đura Lazić, Borvoje Drakulović, Dragan Todorovic, Petar Petrovic, Zoran D. Nikolić and Zivanko Radovanevic submitted the same amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Please state by voting. For 5, against 120, a abstentioned one, was not voted 11, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Rada Bajic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Please state by voting. For one, against 126, a abstentioned one, 9 did not vote, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Please state by voting. For 8, against 111, four abstentions, 14 did not vote, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The representatives of the proposing, the Administrative Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Please state by voting. For one, against 122 abstentions, there was no vote of 14, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic. The representatives of the proposing, the Administrative Committee and the Legislative Committee have not adopted this amendment. Please state by voting. For two, against 121 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Petrovic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Please state by voting. For 13, against 106 abstentions, 5 were not voted by 12, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Pavlovic and Dusan Budisin. The proposing representative and the Administrative Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the proposal for a decision. On Article 12, the amendments were submitted in the same text by MPs: Stevan Ž. Gudurić, Rajko Baralić, Radojko Petrovic, Jovan Todorovic, Dragan Tomić, Velimir Simonović, Vladimir Garčević, Zoran Radovanović, Zarko Obradović, Bora Stanimirović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Borisvoje Drakulović, Dragan Todorovic, Milos Lukić, Dragoljub Stamenković and Zivanko Radovančević. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Please state by voting. For 6, versus 120, a abstentioned one, was not voted by 9, a total of 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The emissary is giving up the amendment. ) I find that the applicant for the amendment has given up, or withdrawn the amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Stanko Kovacevic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Please state by voting. For it was not, against 121 abstentions 5, voted 11, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marko Petrovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 12a be added after article 12. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 15, against 109 abstentions, two did not vote 10, a total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Velimir Simonovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 12a be added after article 12. in Article 133, the following paragraph is added: The Rules of Procedure add a new position. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 10, against 116, the abstention of four, did not vote 6, a total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs: Stevan Gudurić, Rajko Baralić, Radojko Petrovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Jovan Todorovic, Živodarka Dacin, Joca Arsić, Toma Busetic, Dragan Tomić, Velimir Simonović, Hranislav Perić, Vladimir Garčević, Zoran Radovanović, Zarko Obradović, Slobodan Tomović, Bora Stanimirović, Đura Lazić, Dragan Todorovic, Ljubisa Maravić, Zoran D. Nikon D. Nikolic and Ljubomir Kragović submitted the 13th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For four, against 122, the abstention of three, was not voted 8, a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav Panajotovic and Dragan Pavlovic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee has assessed that this amendment with the interventions made at the Committee's session is legally possible. I put the amendments to the text that the Legislative Committee has assessed as legally possible. (Goran Vesic, from the post: The Committee's amendment has been accepted and has become an integral part of it. ( ) So he was accepted by both the Committee and the Proposer? It's okay, then, why the vote? He has to go to the vote for a change on the Legislative Committee. We repeat the vote on this amendment. Therefore, a representative of the proposings and the Administrative Committee accepted it, but there was a correction of the text and we put to the vote this amended text which was adopted by the Legislative Committee and established as legally possible. I'm putting you to a vote and I'm asking you to plead. For 128, against one, abstentioned two, four, a total of 135 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 13th of the amendment is the international MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For one against 129 abstentions, two were not voted by three, a total of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 13th of the amendment, he is a member of Parliament of the People's Republic of Zivko Selaković. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For one, against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, a total of 135 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 13th of the amendment is Ambassador of the People's Republic of Croatia, Zeljo Huric. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 6, versus 114, with five abstentions, it did not vote 10, a total attendance of 135 national MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milisav Petkovic and Pal Shandor. I find that the applicants of the amendment have withdrawn the amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Stevan Lilic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Marin Kresic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 19, against 104 abstentions four, did not vote 7, a total of 134 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Now it's seven hours and 10 minutes, or 19 hours and 10 minutes, I suggest that, I have such a suggestion, and we'll make that clear, tonight we're working on the following way: to give a 15-minute break to the Legislative Committee to sort out these issues that have led to doubt, and then to continue to work, to the end of this agenda. Please make this proposal known. I ask you to plead, but indeed as you will, with the obligation to meet me after this break in the O.R. and to continue our work. Please make your statement on this proposal. For 108, against 9, the abstention of three, was not voted 12, a total of 132 MPs present. Please, at 7:30, meet me in the O.R. and end this item on the agenda. [[Resume session at 19.55]] Please confirm the quorum. I find that we have a quorum to continue the work of the National Assembly. We're continuing our decision-making by amendment. National MPs: Stevan Ž. Gudurić, Radojko Petrovic, Dragan Tomic, Zoran Radovanovic, Vladimir Garčević, Branko Ružić and Zarko Obradovic submitted to the 14th amendment. The proposing representative and the Administrative Board did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 127, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 6, a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. A representative of the proposer, the Administrative Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For it was not against 129 abstentions, there was no vote 5, a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Bora Stanimirović and Goran Cvetanovic, the Proposer representative and the Administrative Board did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For the Nka, against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 5, a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav Panajotovic and Dragan Pavlovic, after a representative of the proposings and the Administrative Board accepted this amendment and the Legislative Committee believes that this amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft decision. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. A representative of the proposing, the Administrative Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Together, against 131 abstentions, there were no votes, two, a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The proposing representative and the Administrative Board did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. There was, against 131, a abstentioned one, not two, a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The proposing representative and the Administrative Board did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Together, against 129, there were no abstentions, no four votes, a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The proposing representative and the Administrative Board did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Together, against 129, there were no abstentions, no four votes, a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladimir Garčević submitted to the 15th amendment. The proposing representative and the Administrative Board did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Together, against 122, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zarko Obradovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The proposing representative and the Administrative Board did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 122 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The proposing representative and the Administrative Board did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 116, the abstention four, did not vote 12, a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Stevan Z. Guduric, Golub Rajic and Joca Arsic submitted to the 15th amendment in the same text. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 125, two abstentions, did not vote 6, a total of 134 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Before this amendment, I should have read the amendment submitted by MP Rajko Baralic to Article 15. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 111, three abstentions, 9 did not vote, a total of 134 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran D. Nikolic. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, a total of 134 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Stevan Lilic, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović and Marin Kresic. I find the amendment has been withdrawn. National MP Zivko Selakovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For it was not, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 9, a total of 134 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Stevan Kesejic submitted to the 15th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. There were no, against 120, abstentions three, no vote 10, a total of 133 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Markovic. The representatives of the proposing, the Administrative Committee and the Legislative Committee have adopted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For it was not, against 123, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, a total of 134 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milos Lukic submitted to the 15th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For it was not, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 9, a total of 134 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Administrative Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For it was not, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 9, a total of 134 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. This was the last amendment declared by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before I put (in general) the motion for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I ask the President of the Administrative Committee to inform us of the findings of the Administrative Committee on Harmonisation. He'll be here, so please let's wait a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12896	In a double capacity, I speak as a member of the Legislative Committee and as a representative of the Proposer. Of course, the Legislative Committee has intervened in accordance with the order of the President of the Assembly, i.e. with what has been observed by professional services, so that the amendment to Article 4. The motion for a decision is - Article 87 is amended and it reads: "After the opening of the search for each item of the agenda of the National Assembly, the right to speak in accordance with that order and duration shall be: (1) the acting representative, or the authorised representative of the group of motions, who receives the word when requested and does not refer to it for the duration of the hearing; (2) the rapporteur of the committee responsible, who has the right to speak for up to 10 minutes and during the search shall have the right to receive one more word over a 5-minute period, if the need for a search is required, which shall be decided by the President of the National Assembly; (3) the MP who, at the meeting of the Committee, shall have the right to speak once for a period of up to 5 minutes; (4) the President, or the representative of the parliamentary group, who has the right to speak for up to 20 minutes, by means of 10 minutes for an opening session and the final statement; (5) the MPs, shall submits, in question, shall submit. The Prime Minister and members of the Government shall be given the floor when requested and shall not be subject to restrictions on the duration of the exposure. National MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups in mutual agreement shall be determined by up to three participants in the debate who have the right to speak, each to five minutes each. Unless mutual agreement is reached, the right to speak within one to five minutes has three MPs who first apply for the word. Statements for a word, with the order of Members of Parliament, shall be submitted by MPs and MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups in writing until the opening of the search, and by the other participants in the hearing orally after the opening of the search. "Article 5 would read like this - Article 88 changes and reads: "The total time of the debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours. The time referred to in Article 1 shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament, members of the Parliament group. The President, or representative of the parliamentary group, shall have the right to propose for a longer period of time the debate on parliamentary groups set out in paragraph 1 of this Article. The National Assembly is deciding without a search. "Here, about that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-10-08-0.u12897	The first amendment to be added to Article 2a of the motion for a decision, Mr. Michael, where, after the word "republics", instead of a comma, the rest of the text is deleted. (The People's MP Leila Ruzdic asks for a word. On the basis of what you've heard, I'm putting before the National Assembly to declare... We don't have an argument, Mrs. Ruzdic. There's no argument. We're going to correct the style thing through a technical text editorial, but this is the text of the board, and I can't open a debate about it right now. We therefore have two amendments to be decided, on a proposal from the Legislative Committee, in order to remove the disagreements arising from the amendments adopted to Articles 1, 4 and 5. It's a motion for a decision. The first amendment, in Article 50, paragraph 1 after the word "republics" instead of the comma is the point, and the remaining text is deleted. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare this amendment. For 120, there are no, abstentions 7, there was no vote of 6, a total of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this amendment. The next amendment of the Legislative Committee is an amendment to Article 4. It's a motion for a decision. That's what Mr. Michael read to you. I am putting the amendment of the Legislative Committee to the vote. For 126, two abstentions were not voted by three, a total of 132 MPs. The third amendment of the Legislative Committee is related to Article 88. Please state by voting. For 127, against one, the abstentioned was not voted by three, a total of 131 MPs. This concludes our decision on the adjudications. I'm concluding a unique search. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 125, against one, three abstentions, two, a total of 131 MPs attended. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The invitation to the next session of the National Assembly, which will discuss serious legal proposals, will take place this week. Until then - working on committees, gentlemen Members of Parliament.
