ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10010	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 135 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I understand we have a quorum and no cards from the Serbian Radical Party MPs. I inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Dusan Tubic, Dragan Marsican, Vojislav Došen, Nenad Bogdanović, Dragan Janjic, Milorad Stanulov, Leila Ruždić - Trifunović, Vladan Jovičić, Nada Kolundžija, Branko Gligorić, Ljubvoje Slavkovic, Karolj Kermeci, Istvan Išpanovic, Petar Misic, Momcilo Trajkovic and Bora Stanimirović. Only in the morning is Bora Stanimirovic and Miomir Ilic, the afternoon of Predrag Bajcetic. The delay was announced by Marina Stamenkovic and Vasilija Pavicevic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. I would also like to inform you that the sittings were invited to attend Nenad Canak, the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and Dr Predrag Filipov, vice-president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, as the authorised representatives of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, who submitted amendments to the draft laws on the agenda of this session. Before we continue the debate in principle, I'll read you a note. You have received notice from the Serbian Unity Party that the MP Vojislav Obradovic, elected from the election list of the Serbian Unity Party, is professor. Borislav Pelevic, a member of the Serbian Unity Party and a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this notice, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88, point 1 and point 2 and 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the term of office of this MP on the day of termination of membership in the Serbian Unity Party. In accordance with Article 88(1) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the time he was elected, to MP Vojislav Obradovic, elected from the electoral list "Serb Unity Party - Prof. Borislav Pelevic", on the day of the end of membership in the Serbian Unity Party. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. We continue the joint principled search on.... Vojislav Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10011	In accordance with Article 67 of The Rules of Procedure, the Administrative Board and the National Assembly must act in an identical manner on all the same matters. We have a notice from the Social Demectrati party about the termination of the term of office of its former members. The Governing Board has not yet forwarded this to the National Assembly. It happened long before the Serbian Unity Party case. The Administrative Board should have responded immediately, because there is no point in applying one archaic to one case and another to the other case. Especially since the Justice Minister here told us it was a single DOS list. Yes, but the public has been informed that DOS had a pre-election agreement and that each party has its own mandates under the agreement. That is why Slobodan Vuksanovic too had to give up the mandate of Belgrade's city councilman. In a whole series of other cases, that's how it's done. It should be in this, too. If the Social Democracy excluded a number of MPs from its membership, the National Assembly should have found that immediately, not that DOS behaves like some other parties used to, when they had a majority. The case of John the Glamocan, which for the 100,000 marks and apartment he received, sold both honor and face and remained to act as a federal MP. We had here and Miroslav Derrett and some others in the Republic Assembly. Of course, there are negative precedents. But you're not going to call for negative precedents. We have to stick to laws, principles, mutual contractual relations. If we do not stick to it, then we question both the legality and legitimacy of the National Assembly. I therefore ask the Vice-President of the National Assembly to insist with the Administrative Committee that this issue be resolved immediately, and if the President of the Administrative Board does not schedule a session, she has the right or the President of the National Assembly has the right to schedule that session and that the Assembly act strictly in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10012	Mr. Seselj, we're not gonna stick to negative precedents. I think we've done everything legally. As for the mandate of members of the Social Democratic Party, there is no report by the Republic Election Commission. So there's this formal obstacle, and I don't think we should be getting into that right now. Who's answering the Rules of Procedure? (Vojislav Obradovic, from the place: I. Your term of office has ceased. I'm sorry, but you can't get the word. I've established that your term of office has ceased. We can't discuss your mandate here. (Vojislav Obradović, from the post: You have a memo. We have a memo. We can reply to the memo in writing. I'm sorry, but I really can't give you my word. You have no right. The word is Mr. Ivkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10013	Your Honor, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 95. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly and on Article 45. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, which I consider directly violated. Namely, all citizens of Serbia and Yugoslavia know the fact that a completely unconstitutional regulation has been adopted by the federal government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10014	Please, Mr. Ivkovic, Article 95. ....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10015	Please, let me speak to my business for three minutes. Article 45 has been broken. It is that a completely unconstitutional regulation has been adopted, which is very important for us, members of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, because it includes the activities of the executive bodies elected by this assembly. The assembly was also elected by the Supreme Court of Serbia, this assembly was elected by the district prosecutor, this assembly also elected the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Each government body of the Republic of Serbia, under the Constitution, Article 119 of the law, the statute of an autonomous province, another regulation or a general act, must be in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This is Article 119. The regulation and other general act under which the executive republican authorities work must also be in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I expected Mr. Marsican, as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of this Assembly, under Article 45, to arrange the work of the Committee, and to discuss the issues of the application of the Constitution, to the immediate start of this session, as the non-constitutional regulation comes into force today, to appoint a Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It's not just about one, two or three people. It's more than 380 people employed by the Ministry of the Interior, more than 700 who used the right of self-defense against NATO aggression. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure - Rule 45, as it is not immediately scheduled today for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to consider how it is possible for the executive bodies of this assembly, which are the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the District Prosecutor and the Supreme Court, to work on the basis of an unconstitutional regulation of the Federal Government, past both the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10016	Mr. Ivkovic, I think that, and you know it well, there is no violation of Article 45 at all, because you know that it is not in the jurisdiction of the Republic Assembly or the Government at all. You filed for a constitutional assessment at the Constitutional Court. There's no room for discussion here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10017	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this interpretation of article 67. The rules of procedure are not good, because RIK has no role and does not report when establishing the end of the mandate of MPs. It is about the termination of membership in the political party ahead of which they came to the National Assembly. The RIK report is only required when verifying the mandate of new MPs, which should come to their place. We have such a case with other parties, for example, the DSS lost those MPs who resigned. There's nothing to be asked for. So that's one of the conditions of termination. Nothing's asked of RIK. When the mandate of new MPs is verified, the RIK then submits a report in which it insists basic conditions are met. It means these people were on the list, fulfilling other regulations. As far as the previous issue is concerned, it is the duty of the National Assembly to draw attention to all the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia in order for any attempt to implement the anti-constitutional regulation of the Federal Government to constitute a criminal offence, both prosecutors and judges who would act under that unconstitutional regulation should go to prison and each of them should be aware.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10018	Mr. Seselj, do you want us to vote, since I've already answered your breach of the Rules of Procedure once. Would you like the National Assembly to declare an injury to Article 47? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? (Employee Seselj, from the place: Read it, do not mind to answer it. Don't you want to make a statement? No, I don't. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure? The violation of the Rules of Procedure stands out, MP Mr Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10019	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Rules of Procedure, Article 95, paragraph 3, has been broken, which says that the President of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation, and if he does not give an explanation that the Assembly must plead. I'm unhappy with the explanation, for your sake I'll ask for a vote. Please listen to me. Article 119. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says, the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10020	You won't repeat, this is now the second reporting by the same member, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10021	It is very important, this assembly is responsible for implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10022	Mr. Ivkovic, I will not allow you to speak again about the same Mr. Ivkovic, please, he will plead, and you have requested the National Assembly to declare the violation of Rule 119, and I will put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10023	Please democratically allow me to use these three minutes...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10024	You can't, Mr. Ivkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10025	These are very serious things.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10026	Mr. Ivkovic, I give you a warning, first warning because...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10027	These MPs must say whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia... [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10028	Mr. Ivkovic, you have no right to report to the same member twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10029	Whether or not the Government of the Republic of Serbia can work past the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10030	Mr. Ivkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10031	Will you get me out of here?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10032	If we have to, what do we do?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10033	Here you go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10034	I would like to vote on Parliamentarian Branislav Ivkovic's proposal that he is a broken member of 119. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and Mr. Ivkovic, is it 119 or is it Article 95(3)? (Employee Ivković, from the post: Article 119. The Constitution and 45. Rules of Procedure. This is where you went out and said Article 95(3). Okay. I would like to put Mr. Ivkovic's motion to vote that article 45 has been broken. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I ask the Members of Parliament to declare themselves by voting. For 50, against 118, one abstention, two of the 171 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the Rules of Procedure in Rule 45 have not been broken. I ask the MP, Mr Vojislav Obradovic, who has stopped his mandate to leave the National Assembly Hall. Thank you. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: - PROPOSALS ON PRIVATIZATION, PRIVATION AGENCY AND ACCTIONAL FONDU (addition) The word has a People's MP Zivko Selaković, and the next reported for the discussion is MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10035	The respected presidency, honourable MPs and representatives of the government, the Privatisation Bill, followed by two other laws governing the continuation of property transformation, deserves special caution and attention during the debate. It is a law governing property relations, which is the basis of not only the economic but also the political system. The institutional solutions to be regulated by this law were to come to the Assembly's agenda at the end of the discussion and adoption of all other reform laws, including the Constitution. Given that the draft law is included in the agenda of this session, I feel the need and obligation as a MP to make several principled remarks and suggestions on this proposal, before considering in particular. I believe that, before moving to considering the provisions contained in the bill, it should be more comprehensively considered whether or not the provisions of the bill disagree with the constitutions, federal and republican, as well as federal laws. By consulting certain experts who are experts in this area, I find that several provisions in the bill do not have this agreement. I'll point only to some of those provisions. In Article 9. The bill provides for the privatisation to be carried out through the application of the model: the sale of capital and the transfer of capital without compensation, contrary to Article 6 of the Federal Law on the basis of a change in the ownership of social capital. In addition to the previous two models, the Federal Law provides for others, such as: capitalisation, investment conversion and demand into permanent stakes, company sales, etc. In Article 115(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is prescribed that the laws in the Republic must be compatible with federal law. It is undeniable that the agreement is not reached in the proposed law, nor can it be assumed that the federal law will comply with the republic's law, since the relevant law in the Republic of Montenegro is compatible with the federal law. In Article 19. The draft law provides that the Agency may decide that before privatisation, the undertaking is required to implement a restructuring process involving, status or organisational changes, the alignment of debt confidence relations and other changes, contrary to the provisions of the Company Act. In Article 20. The draft legislation provides that in the course of the restructuring, creditors cannot take action for the purpose of forced collection of their achievements, which is contrary to the provisions of the Law on Bond Relations. Article 31 of the Law provides that an undertaking may not make decisions to reduce or increase capital, to reorganise, to restructure, to invest, to sell part of the assets or to conclude long-term arrangements, which is to restrict the rights of undertakings under the Constitution and the Company Act. When it comes to social property, it is a very delicate question of fate, i.e. the status of agricultural cooperatives. Agricultural cooperatives have been declared by earlier law, social property, and we know that social property is nobody's property. It's the law when it was meant for farmers and farmers' cooperatives to destroy the land and property of peasants. Now and this proposal of the privatisation law, i.e. the sale of the social property of the agricultural cooperatives, remains in doubt, which leads to doubt that they will be struck by the same fate as by the law after the war that I have already stated, because they have the status of social property. As far as farmers are concerned, i.e. farmers, the bill promoter must know that Serbian peasants for all these past years of poverty, sanctions, wars and other disasters that have hit us were the main headquarters, which, in the shortest possible way, kept social peace in Serbia by working and producing cheap food. I believe that the peasants of this privatisation must be leveled, if not in a priority position, to participate in the purchase of the most competitive property, i.e. The most profitable companies and thus put an end to irregularities when it comes to peasants. It's not a rare occurrence of their neglect, not only in this privatisation law, but in anything else. These few provisions, which I pointed out, are sufficient arguments to assess whether a procedure for the assessment of the non-compliance of the adopted law on privatisation with constitutions ( federal and republican) and federal laws can be initiated after the adoption of the law. On the proposal for a law on privatisation, very serious objections can also be put in place from an economic point of view. I believe that, in order to continue the property transformation of social and state capital, an institutional solution should have been proposed to the relevant economic and political system, which would be this: - especially the adjustment of the property transformation of social capital, from the sale of state capital, because social capital has no owner, and the state capital is owned, so if the state decides to sell that capital, it should be regulated in a special law; - that the agency should be empowered to privatise a number of enterprises of special purpose, and as far as I know there are more than 150, as well as more than 7,000 enterprises and an unknown number of other legal entities available to social capital, privatisation should be carried out by these business entities. The bill promoter is too ambitious if it considers that state institutions can resolve mandatory procedures within four years, when they have not been able to carry out self-control and verification of the value of capital or half of these business entities within four years, which is negligible in terms of privatisation; - to allow economic operators to choose the method of privatisation, as prescribed in federal law: the conversion of liabilities (at all levels, whether they have arrived or not) with a discount of 30% on the burden of the value of social capital; the transfer of actions to employees without compensation of up to 40% of the value of social capital; the capital injection with a discount of 30%; the transfer to the Stock Fund of the rest of the social capital that is not transformed in previous ways. Based on the proposed parliamentary group of the Serbian Unity Party, it believes that the National Assembly should not pass the proposed law, which will be the subject of a mass protest not only by employees but also by the management structures of economic operators. The debate, which followed the publication of the text of the Privatisation Law and the proposal, left two laws in this area, can assess what kind of response will be after the proposed laws have been passed. This is potentially the most serious problem that can lead not only to the dissatisfaction of the interested but also to the most serious consequences. Given the possibility to initiate proceedings before the Federal and Republic Constitutional Court, the procedure to challenge the most important provisions of the law and the real assumption that the provisions will be contested. The MP group of the Serbian Unity Party therefore proposes that the proposal for a law on privatisation be returned to the promoter for completion. If this proposal is not accepted, and after the debate on its adoption, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party will not vote in favour of such a bill, for the reason that citizens and workers who have spent years, and their entire working life, would be the most damaged, i.e. The company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10036	Thank you. The word has a folk head Petar Jojic, and the next reported for the discussion is MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10037	Ladies and gentlemen, the assessment and objections to the Privatisation Bill was best given by the MP, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, estimating that this law is better than the previous ones for the following reasons: firstly, what privatisation is armed, secondly, which is allowed to sell more than 51%. However, the law should also be referred to serious objections because privatisation is not implemented under one privatisation law, but is implemented under the proposal of this privatisation law, then under the proposal for a law on the action fund and a proposal for a law on the privatisation agency. In my opinion, for reasons of efficiency, economic and celery, privatisation should be governed by one law, because it is best that these legal regulations should not be clashed, and that in different ways they are interpreted and applied in practice and that they make it difficult for one another to implement privatisation. This law does not require the sale of all enterprises and capital in the same way. Since we have companies of particular national and national interest, such as EPS, NIS and municipal enterprises, which in no way should allow the privatisation of these vital and very significant branches of particular social and national interest to be sold over 49%. What are the specificities of privatisation in Serbia. I'd like to get some. First, our country has been exposed for the last 10 years to outrageous and unremembered sanctions and external pressures and blackmails. Secondly, none of the countries in Eastern-European countries that went to privatisation and transition, such as Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria and others, were exposed to such pressures, sanctions, or war. Third, other countries had no problems with the occupation of their territories, had no problems like we did, and today we have the fate of the Serbian people and a huge number, with hundreds of thousands of refugees. These countries had no problem with Kosovo, which we have, we have had in the past, and we have it today. These countries also had no problems with such unemployment. To be able to privatise in a fair, efficient and economic way, the following conditions should be ensured. First, to provide legislation under which privatisation would be carried out without harm being suffered by any citizen of our country. Secondly, take a good look at and determine how many investors will be interested in our privatisation, as Minister Vlahovic said he had conducted numerous talks and contacts with foreign strategic partners. However, with which the partners did not give a single answer, which should have been given to MPs, who are interested in privatisation in our country, specifically to see which countries they are, what their legitimacy is, and for which branches of the economy the countries are interested and strategic partners of the out-of-country. For us, privatisation will depend to a good extent on restitution, privatisation will also depend on the development of our market, whether we will be able to compete abroad, how large there are foreign investments, how much support international financial organisations will be, what financial changes will be in our financial structure, and will depend on changes in our banking system, on securities markets of value, on changes in public finances. What privatisation will be in our country will also depend on parliamentary control to prevent any abuses in the privatisation process. Our privatisation will also depend on the external trade balance. Privatisation will also depend on preparations and the start of privatisation, because I think privatisation should begin as soon as possible. It is necessary to provide conditions for the establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises, as large enterprises have no chance of privatising themselves in a way and in a timely manner and also to specify the law of foreign investment. The position of the Serbian Radical Party, as well as mine, is that all companies should be classified as those with less than 100 employees and those with over 100 employees, allowing those companies up to 100 employees to be privatised by local self-government and at least 30% of the funds received and the sale of capital belongs to the local self-government of the daon can be granted on their own for the most important needs of local self-government. The sale of large companies and large capital should be made through bidding, through competition, by collecting offers, along with an ad on bids and competition, which must be published for 15 days, at least in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" and in one daily list. The comments on the Privatisation Agency's proposal are as follows: this proposal gives great authority to the Agency, and enables even the establishment of special agency exposures, thus increasing privatisation costs and increasing the administration on the ground, as it is known that privatisation needs to be entered between 6 and 8 000 enterprises, and asks the question of how many of these local exposures should participate and how many officials, officials, workers, perpetrators, artists and other institutions that need to implement privatisation, which absolutely increases the cost of privatisation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, therefore, it is necessary to, as Serbian radicals consider it, accept the remarks that Serbian Radical Party MPs have made on this bill, to supplement the law, in order to be in practice enforceable. Therefore, some lessons should be learned from those countries that have privatised, which have carried out the transition and, above all, the countries of East-European countries. On this occasion, I would like to draw attention to the fact that investment investments in transition countries have remained only on paper. The new owners sold out everything they could sell, took 10 times as much as they paid for companies, fired employees and announced bankruptcy, thus avoiding social costs and therefore must access the scope and implementation of privatisation with the greatest responsibility. Examples from some neighbouring countries, and above all Romania, which I warn and draw attention to, these examples are really for our instruction, because they owned it instead of running production, they were soullessly buying industrial enterprises, and then they fed them. An example of Bulgaria, which was a country exporting fruit and vegetables, and today has become an importer. An expert breakthrough in Romania is mainly based on exports of three products, old iron, raw wood and cheap labour. European and other steel companies today consume large quantities of old iron from Romania, and therefore it is well listed on world markets. Lately, Romania has become its major producer. Foreign investors buy Romanian factories and seduce them, quickly shut them down and rip them up, and slice them up a piece of inn like old iron. It comes to them more profitable than to be tortured by their rehabilitation and recovery. The same is true of massive forest cutting, and domestic labour in Romania is paid 5 to 10 times less than the land where foreign capital comes from. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are aware that throughout history, every form of ownership in the given socio-economic circumstances of development played a historic role and significance, each of which has its own shortcomings and advantages, which means that neither of them is ideal for solving any country's economic and social problems. A foreign strategic partner in the privatisation process of our companies will be interested in buying the company in which it will be able to make a profit. Privatisation in our country continues to be burdened by pressures and blackmails on our country, which come from abroad, and a foreign partner in these circumstances will not accept the legal participation of a possible partner. The merchants have their logic, because if the buyer knows that the seller has to sell something, then he blackmails and knocks it down. In any case, our companies shouldn't go for sale at all costs and for nothing. I therefore consider it necessary for our country to turn to the long-term strategic interests of the nation and the development of the Serbian economy and in no case should Serbia become an interesting sphere of strategic partners. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the privatisation minister, Mr. Vlahovic said no one will stay on the street. However, I fear that the largest number of employees after the sale of their businesses, which will be carried out through privatisation, country and abroad, will be found on the street and on the labour bureau, which is now called the labour market, as in some countries in transition. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we must not allow the distribution of resources and enterprises into depravity, because the perspective of our own development would be lost and workers would become gastarbaters in their own country. The new owner will seek to take all the results of the future work into account, and our workers are left with only one choice of wages as they consider it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10038	The word has a People's MP, Zoran Angelkovic, and the next reported for the discussion is MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10039	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vlahovic, today is on the agenda of one of those laws that we can certainly say are key in the overall package of reform laws. This law begins with giving up the socialist model of self-inflictedness. Transition or transformation is an unevolutional transition from socialism to capitalism. It is a complex process with serious economic and political consequences. After this law, there will be no more dominating of social interests over individual, collective property over private, non-equity capital management, administrative and directive regulation of the economy, rule of party nomenclature over economy. Entrepreneurship will not be replaced by political co-ordination and management by entrepreneurship and power centres. Replacement of the socialist model by a capitalist model does not automatically lead to capitalism and its essence. And it certainly is the creation of a market, i.e. the financial market for capital and labour. The economic foundations of capitalism are certainly private property, entrepreneurship and the market, and above all the capital market. The law that is before us begins the transformation of the found economic model by a market tool, in order to create self-regulatory mechanisms and market institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, our goal is, as I have already said, the capitalist economy with private property and the market, but I point out once again that the establishment of a financial market is the fact that the nervous system of our economy is in place. So there's no dilemma. Or at least it shouldn't be. The main levers are privatisation, i.e. individualisation of property and development of the capital market. Both processes are mutually stimulating, and the main thing is that there must be no delay in the realization of both of these processes. Both citizens and we MPs need to know, and I think we know, that this law interrupts the transformation that he had and some good intentions. But he wasn't determined and there was no shock wave of privatisation, so economic transformation created an economy in confusion and private capital of a new class of owners on privileged renting of social capital. We are fully aware that the proposed project is not miraculous and that it does not currently lead to recovery. This is a painful change. It is possible to increase unemployment, temporary of course, the current decline in production and the decline in living standards, that at the same time creates nostalgia according to past times of self-government socialism, can give birth to populism and demagogy, political opponents are forced to give up, etc. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is no other way. The success of the process in which we enter will be measured by the inflow of capital into transformed or new enterprises. We don't need to, and we won't brag about the number of transformed enterprises and the established capital. That's understood, there can't be any delays. The right measure will be, as I said, the speed of the new capital inflow. Whether or not an investment blindness should be eliminated during and after transformation. Privatisation can't last forever. And the estimated period of four years is even a long period. It will not be easy at the same time to fight and avoid economic stagflation, trade liberalisation, because it will certainly be a request of partners and the world, with a low-level balance of development, or as some say - yoga businesses, have an open economy, a neat balance of payments, a stable budget, tough constraints, without printing money and financial discipline. Dear MPs, the companies that need to enter the privatisation, as someone has already said, are the family silver of our economy. Among them are those who invested in these difficult times from their own accumulation, savings and depreciation. Dear colleagues, we will have socially sensitive businesses, the number of employees and importance in certain regions, lost with perspective and lost without a business perspective. The most important thing in my opinion is that the sooner we develop the capital market, because that's when the real capital comes. Workers need to give up working capitalism and action self-management as soon as possible and accept only possible and realistically possible civic action. Mr. Vlahovic, respected colleagues, September and December elections and October 5th events, Serbian citizens with DOS have made a kind of contract. Certainly, one member of the contract, which I consider most important, is the DOS's obligation to implement reforms in Serbia to the end. Serbian citizens have approved the contract by stamping a two-thirds majority in this parliament. And of course, what that means. We have no right to compromise when it comes to reforming anyone, and at least with the remains of the defeated forces in this House. That's for sure. The total reforms we need to implement are only a prerequisite for our European and Euro-Atlantic integration. A new democracy will vote for this law. The new democracy will put all its programming and personnel capacities in the service of general reforms and in the service of European and Euro-Atlantic integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10040	The word has a National MP Dragan Colic, and let Tomislav Panajotovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10041	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not disputed that there is a package of laws before the National Assembly to regulate privatisation and that it is vital for all participants in privatisation, for all citizens of Serbia. The aim of this law should be an efficient economy and the construction of an open liberal economy. And the fact is, right now, our economy is in crisis, with losses moving up to a few hundred billion dollars. Social property as a form of property has not proved to be effective, and in almost nowhere in the world exists except in our country. Privatisation is necessary, beyond need, as a means of getting out of the great economic crisis in which our country is located. Could we have gone into ownership transformation before? The Serbian Radical Party has always advocated privatisation, and the liberal market economy in the Serbian Radical Party's economic programme is a starting assumption of the development of society. Unlike Serbian radicals, we remember 1994 and Zoran Djindjic's efforts to prevent privatisation. I wish we'd gone back then, we'd probably have avoided the good portion of the difficulties we've been in today. Social property was characterized by weaknesses such as low growth rates, high unemployment of people and capacity, high inflation rates, high corporate and state debt, non-compliance with the law, weak and irresponsible state, low business morality, net capital outflow, etc. Social property is one of the greatest consequences of the system and the ideologies of one time that has gone to history happily. Privatisation aims to define ownership rights and introduce such a market system based on competition that calls for overall efficiency. Private property creates a more efficient corporate governance system based on the maximization of profits. In the proposal for a law on privatisation, issued by Minister Vlahovic, it is very important that there is a obligation to privatise and be public. One of the burning problems that comes with privatisation is the appearance of extra workers and the protection of their interests. The question arises whether the revenues achieved this way will go towards protecting workers' rights and whether this will eliminate negative effects. The lack of a clear, precise social programme represents what makes the Privatisation Act deficient and less quality. The figure of 700,000 jobless workers is a serious problem for which not only political demagogy needs to be addressed, but seriously concerned about the fate of every worker, the fate of every family. I'm not sure social funds will protect workers without a job. Tens of thousands of enterprises in Serbia cannot, and neither does the government and the Agency have to control. It is a good and rational idea for the SRS to control the sale and privatisation of smaller businesses, which employ up to 100 workers. The money obtained in this way would go into the municipal budget, and the agency would disburse, so it could deal with larger companies. What I'm most afraid of is that this job controls several powers, shut down the public, there's no control, and when there's no public control, the possibility of being tempted, the possibility of abuse is completely certain. I suspect that in the event of a possible robbery of money obtained from the sale of the company, the government will have enough planes, that one lousy flight, this plane of Cananet, could go to another country and advocate privatisation there, agency funds, according to DOS prescription. The time that lies before us will show who's right - theory is one thing and practice is another. More and more Serbian citizens say this government will not put together for two months. We have to make sure of that, and whoever survives will talk about how the worst government we have ever had in Serbia has implemented the privatisation law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10042	And you'll vote for the law? The word is by MP Tomislav Panajotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10043	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, what is wrong with the proposed law? He was proposed at the wrong time and in the wrong place. Isn't that right, socialist gentlemen? This was said on July 29th 1995 by one of the most elite economists from the Socialist ranks, at the time by a MP whose name I will not mention. He also forged the following thoughts - it is not true that social property is everyone's and no one's. Property, i.e. property, is a set of certain property rights, consisting of rights of use, fertilisation, availability, etc. Of course, in addition to these beautifully coined thoughts, the then head of the Socialist parliamentary group, whose name I will not mention, also draws on its side and on the Socialist side, and says - the Socialists are not against the transformation of social property, as is often attributed to us, but are against all proposals, which want violent, non-economic criteria to carry out the transformation of property and thus distribute social wealth, created through dozens of generations. Of course, the legislator is not mut, and I will mention his name - Zoran Djindjic corresponds to a man who drags aside the Socialists: supporting social property by maintaining a "black hole" in the economy of Serbia and Yugoslavia, the "black hole" through which the money goes. Social property is not property. Supporting this social property means destroying the substance for Serbia's economy. To what extent the substance is destroyed, we'll judge for ourselves. My predecessor also mentioned Mr Djindjic -- I will read a part of the scene from July 29th 1994, which has denied many allegations, which have been heard. Since the proposing representative, Mr Djindjic, was explicitly in this hall, when only MPs were members of the Democratic Party and the SPS, since our fellow members from the ranks of the other opposition came out of the hall, he said, given that a package of laws related to privatisation was proposed, he said something that Mr Vlahovic once already said: "These are four laws, which represent the continent and can only solve problems if they are viewed as a whole. That means, the separation of one or the other complex from that continent reduces the effects at all, and it can happen to create additional problems, not to solve the ones that these laws in general want to solve. "This is about one package of laws, it's not about individual laws. Repeatedly repeated untruth threatens to become true. It was heard from here that the Democratic Party proposed the Revaluation Act in 1994, which annulled all possible effects of what the Democratic Party wanted to achieve. I warn you of this part of Mr. Djindjic's exposure. And of course, I'm going to end up the way I started -- paraphraseing the man who forged the thought that I said ahead, I'd say, paraphrasing him -- what's wrong with the proposed law? The answer is: the proposed law is proposed at the right time and in the right place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10044	He has the word National MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10045	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, Mr. Minister, certainly that the law on privatisation, which lies before us today, we can freely characterise as the law which will be the most significant act this assembly assembly has in its term of office. With this bill, we can freely conclude, Serbia is definitely free of the communist corporate governance system. In order to understand the concept of privatisation better and more clearly, we need to know what that was, in fact, the strategic goal that the Government of the Republic of Serbia put before it with this bill. This strategic goal is certainly to reform our economy, but in addition to the reform, it is certainly also important to create a clear ownership regime in the Republic of Serbia. We had a law here a few months ago, or we stopped the Law on Our Inland Transformation, the part that referred to autonomous transformation, first of all we thought that this concept of division, free division of actions, was not good, and simply stopped the process of restructuring businesses. The question was, who with such a free share concept would invest in the company? Also, we almost have to realize that there are no businesses in Serbia, however many, we can say, according to our criteria, it works well without asking for investments and fresh capital. It was a legitimate question - what about the actions that were acquired in this way, i.e. by shareholders? Justified doubt, of course, was that those actions would indeed remain where they were published. Because it makes sense to expect that when you get fourteen or fifteen thousand marks, with nominal value, those actions will be very soon in secondary traffic. And, with the free division of actions, to be honest, we have to figure it out, only the illusions of employees were created. The story that workers could have gotten to sixteen thousand German marks was simply absolutely not true. Because when you have information that by selling shares, workers were given ten to twenty times less, you are clearly told what it was. This proposal makes a legislative levelling between the nominal and the real amount of actions. That's why it took a different concept of privatisation, which is, by this bill, out here. For the first time in Serbia, and I underline, for the first time we have spoken in a clear language -- the law is called a law on privatisation, not some ridiculous names -- the Law on its own in-house transition, as we have so far had the opportunity to hear from the Socialists, who have been able to baptize it nicely and nicely. The government is making this bill of law to create conditions for the efficiency of privatisation and that in four years we have a clear ownership regime, that we know that there is only state and private property and that there is no more social property. Social property is, by the definition of communist theorists, how this taught us the time of the 1970s and 1980s, everyone and nobody. And the definition itself speaks enough about how successful she was. The goal is also quite clear and obvious - to get a strong, corporate governance, to get better management and to execute the division as it really should be, to create strong, well-regulated financial markets, so-called. Exchanges, and that, simply, traffic stock is no longer in those places, as we had the chance to see them in the markets, in the streets, in the counters, but in the markets. The Proposer certainly provided for protection of minority rights. If there was no protection of minority rights, free division of actions would have absolutely no meaning. And what we need to point out and what is extremely important is that for the first time in Serbia, privatisation is said to be mandatory. It is obvious that this law wants the government of the Republic of Serbia to have one public and simple privatisation. When I say public privatisation, special attention in the law has been paid to informing all interested entities who want to participate in privatisation. There is simply no longer the possibility of making secret deals, secret deals, and that, as was the case in the previous government, we already know in advance who will privatise the company. And when there are no secret deals, the logical consequence -- no more corruption in Serbia. What's most important, what we need to conclude, and we need to know that we're learning, that privatisation in itself is not the solution, that privatisation is just a technique. To achieve economic reforms, we need to create a normal democratic society that respects the laws, which will be regulated in the Constitution and the law and be absolutely open to the world. That is exactly what the Democratic opposition of Serbia and this government are doing. Only so will the success of privatisation be 100%. On the other hand, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the majority DOS group are taking a step towards raising the value of the national economy and restoring its importance and influence. From all ahead of that, as a member of the DOS, I will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10046	The word is by MP Vlasimir Budimovic. Next reported for discussion is MP Milan Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10047	Dear Madam Vice-Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the Honorable Mr. Minister and members of the Government, the discussion that has been conducted so far in connection with the privatisation law, have largely relied on the legal and legal norms that this law carries. I would ask you to allow me, as a man who 50 years ago as a child, to survive the savagery of communist ideology and robberies unrecorded in the history of the world, in the case of the other side of the medal, to specify the human and moral norms that were then violated, which we are now beginning to correct. I believe the law exists and is based on moral and human norms. With the adoption of the privatisation law, which I will support, as well as other members of the DOS, we are starting to produce an entire system of restitution laws taken away by natural and legal persons. This will correct the historical error and show our generations that we are building a democratic and legal state. Young people could appreciate and apply basic human rights. So that young people can appreciate and apply basic human rights, including the right to private property, I ask them to hear my story, and it is similar to the stories of tens of thousands of other stories in this troubled country. In the dawn of the cold November morning of 1943, someone knocked on the window of Sremak's steamer Sima Paunovic from Surduk and invited him out. He folded his new gun, went out and never came back. His grave doesn't even know today. And the gun was later seen on the back of the father of a high-ranking communist official named Vojvodina. A few years later, his 220 acres of fertile Sremac land, 20 horses, perpetrators, buildings, salash was kidnapped, and his family survived by collecting dolls in the sremac dust. It's my mother's bio-grandfather. In the 1970s, the then-King Obrenovic invited three young graphic workers, gave them 10 ducats, and sent them to expand literacy and culture into newly freed parts of Serbia, to open bookstores and printeries. One of them was my father-in-law, Djordje Budimovic. In 1876, he rented a chateau in Krusevec, bought the first machine of a knife tigl and, working in wooden letters, opened the first printing works and a bookstore called "King's privileged bookstore and printing works by Djordža Budimovic". (Lowers from the O.R.: Theme. Yes, sirs of the Socialists, this is the topic. Ladies and gentlemen, for 53 years, I've been waiting for this day, the day when one great historical injustice will begin to be corrected against tens of thousands of our people who have created the basis of modern Serbia. By adopting this law, as the first in a series of return laws, taken away property by natural and legal persons, which will restore dignity, faith in justice, faith in the legal and democratic state, because the right to private property is one of the relative human rights from the original community to this day. No one should ever and should ever dream of the dreams I've been dreaming of since 1948, dreams of a nightmare where I see my father, Strahinj Budimovic, sitting on the steps of his brother's beautiful bookstores and printery. I see myself, second-class primary school student, looking scaredly at two big red stamps with a escrow over the store. I wonder why this wonderful man, who at the age of 15 as a volunteer, a student, a nurse, crossed Albania, passed over the typhoid, survived the Corfu, the Blue Tomb, studied in France, is now crying. Gentlemen, why is a man crying when he was 48? Why, as in the theatre piece about General Milan Nedić, this woman - the Aphesian woman, the game, she screams and gets into my father's face, telling him - go home, this isn't yours anymore. He, whose three older brothers left bones in Albania's gourds, cried. For nine years, I, a member of the DOS and the Civil League, and my friends walk the streets of Kruševac and Belgrade, whistle, slam into pots and swallow tear gas. But unlike my father, I've been waiting. (I'm sorry for my emotions. ) I welcomed this day after September, after October, which will wipe out the last traces of communist ideology. I brought this up as a memory of my father, as well as thousands of others in this country who have survived it, but also because of the future of young people who must understand that private property is uncircumcised and that it can only be achieved by honest, persistent and long-term work. Let the adoption of this law begin the process which we have promised our citizens in the pre-election campaign, which Mr. Minister, in the talks on the law on privatisation, cites as the next step which is practically already being started. Let me finish with the next quote. In Article 43. Dushan's 1349 code reads: "He is not a gentleman's own emperor, king, nor the queen's lady, to take possession of anyone by force, nor to buy it, nor to change it, unless he himself agrees." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10048	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milan Stankovic, and the next reported for discussion is MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10049	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased to hear last week that some DOS MPs gave the grade, that the SPS has been trying for 10 years to implement the privatisation and to break up with the past in terms of restructuring our economy. I'll remind you that in the previous SPS period, the first time after a 50-year period began with a serious promotion of private property. As a result, many private companies have appeared in the form of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is sufficient evidence that the SPS fully understands that private property is superior to other forms of property. Unfortunately, sanctions on the work of the international community, as well as the war against our country, have significantly hampered the privatisation process. Today, it is clear to all of us that sanctions have been imposed not because of human rights violations and the endangerment of the freedom of Albanians, but because of the exclusive interests of those so-called. strategic partners or rather multinational companies. Their interest was not to implement the privatisation law as supported by the SPS, and their interest is not that our economy is working and making profit, because it directly reduces their profits. The SPS did not run away from co-operation with the developed world, but provided that this co-operation is equal. All multinational companies were running away from it. Now that sanctions have been lifted and political ties with the world have been established, there is no reason not to establish economic co-operation, except that the interest of that part of the world has remained exactly the same. There's no reason our companies don't start working and export what's competitive. Unfortunately, economic growth has dropped since October 5th, and the only concern of the new authorities is to sell out what she didn't invest in. When you sell the skill you didn't build, then you don't really care what it's worth. The state has no interest in the fate of businesses and workers, and this is particularly not an interest in the leaders of the DOS. They want this bill as soon as possible because of the mutant companies, but also because of themselves. The fraud is now, as was the fraud in the election campaign, that citizens, especially employees, will be better off. This bill abolishes many of the rights provided by the previous law to workers, namely: 1. the right of the company to issue free shares up to 60% of the value of the capital; 2. in auctioning the right to free shares is limited to 30%, 20% or 10% of the capital, and everything in which the shares are sold at a rate of up to 60% of the value of the capital; 3. the right of employees to receive shares of 400 marks each year, is reduced to 300, or 150 marks depending on the speed of privatisation; in the tender privatisation the value of free shares, the total value of the capital is only 15%; 4 if the value of the company's capital is not sold, there are no free shares of workers, and this is said in Article 25; 5. The employees are practically limited to free shares, because the value of 10 to 30% of capital provided for free shares, provided for free of action, will not be paid to all employees. Regardless of the proponent's explanation regarding this law, however, employees and other citizens directly or indirectly participated in the construction of factories and other institutions, as well as countries in general. As a result, the first thing to do is to return the money invested in companies or to share free shares, and only then to make the sale as provided for by the law. If the government advocates justice and says that the law on nationalisation or confiscation was unfair, why is it that it lays down laws that will take away property for those who have received this property at the time of creation. There is another injustice, and it will happen that businesses or factories buy one of the foreign strategic partners, who will surely alienate a part of the workers and will fire those older ones, as younger ones are far more productive. That's how it's gonna happen that the job loses the ones who built that factory the most or the company they worked in. There are many vague solutions in the law, solutions that give the government great authority. For example, Article 5, which regulates the privatisation agency, is incomplete and says that the rights and duties of the agency will be regulated by a special act, with unclear sales models through tender, auctions and everything left to the sublegal act, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, to decide for itself. In addition to the fact that the law is unconstitutional and that there are other shortcomings that have been mentioned, it gives the government broad opportunities, or DOS, to implement the privatisation process in the way that most corresponds to the DOS individuals. Once the process is implemented, the DOS individuals will no longer care whether they rule or not, they will not be responsible for the further fate of all Serbian citizens. Like Mr. Milan St. Protic did the job, accepted the mayor's seat, then went to Washington, knowing he would not be able to solve the burning problems of Belgrade's citizens, so it will happen with this government as well. Citizens, and especially employees, will remain at risk. Finally, I will remind you of the presentation of the prime minister, Mr Djindjic, who said, quote: "We do not sell factories and machines, we sell to the West expectations". And Mr. Djindjic, if you're selling expectations, and you're not selling factories, which is the problem, then share free actions with workers about these businesses and institutions as the previous law predicted and there will be no problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10050	The word has a People's MP Branko Ruzic, and the next one registered for discussion is MP Borisvoje Katic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10051	The Honorable Presidency, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, ahead of us and Serbian citizens, is a proposal for a law on privatisation, which Serbian Prime Minister Mr Djindjic described as historical. I would not agree with that attribute, given that I consider the proposal of a privatisation law quite normal in one of the transition countries, as is our country. That's probably what Mr. Prime Minister wanted to score some marketing point, and that doesn't surprise me at all. However, the fact is that this is not the first law to regulate the problem of ownership transformation. In this case, the law also makes clear a reflection of the programme principles of individual political parties on the argument, the number and the outlines of this legislative proposal on privatisation. The SPS parliamentary group was first neither slow nor ever questioned the need to adopt a meaningful legal solution in the area of privatisation. However, according to the SPS programming principles and our constant efforts to bring a socially fair model of ownership transformation, we cannot accept such a bill for purely priscipial reasons and conceptual considerations. The disadvantages of this bill are numerous. Such a proposal comes with financial lobbys which are in the interest of incapacitating companies, defecating, closing, selling. This proposal confers on the Government a large number of powers for the adoption of sublegal acts and thus deprives the Assembly of the possibilities of control over a very important privatisation process, and paves the way for unlimited self-will of the Government. The law is unacceptable because it abolishes the largest number of inalienable and acquired company rights and employees, pensioners and other citizens. Among other things, the following rights are abolished: The right of the company to issue free shares up to 60% of the company's capital; then, when privatising through a tender for free action of employees in a given company, it is limited to a maximum of 15% of the company's capital; the right of citizens outside the specific enterprise to apply for free actions in each enterprise; the right of employees to receive free actions for internships in other companies is abolished; the right to issue free shares before the sale of 70% of the company's capital, and the right of employees to free action in cooperatives and agricultural enterprises, unless more than 50% of the company's capital has been sold; and the right of farmers to compete for free actions in cooperatives and agricultural enterprises. The right of the Republic Pension Fund to 10% of all corporate actions is also lifted. Such a bill also implies the possibility of a very dangerous situation, where the Privatisation Agency, according to Article 5 of the proposed law, would be a legal person who would only determine the course of privatisation without any valuable control mechanisms. Article 24 does not define or clarify the future method of assessing the value of capital and leaves it at the mercy of the Government, which brings a sublegal act on this issue. In the case of the sale of parts or assets of undertakings, Articles 3 and 23 of this proposal does not establish the obligation of the Privatisation Agency not to cause damage to the undertaking by the ownership transformation process or to prevent it from functioning. The basic principles of this proposal for the privatisation law are obligation and engagement, and are contrary to Articles 64, 55 and 57. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 74 The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which guarantees the business independence of the company, its equality on the market and in economic policy measures, and prohibits discrimination against certain types of enterprises. Do not delay the need to pass a law that will regulate the issue of property transformation, as a socialist, I do not think that the application of such a bill will create an environment that will lead to a socio-just ownership transformation in which none of the population categories in Serbia will be compromised. Due to a series of such counter-constitutional draft laws, as well as a shameful federal government regulation since Saturday, I will vote against this bill. I am taking the opportunity to invite all righteous citizens to the Republic Square tomorrow at 1800 hours to defend Serbia's dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10052	The People's MP Borisvoje Katic has the word, followed by the MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10053	Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of what others think, they have the right to do so, yet this law is historic and indeed in one specific way breaking up with all the decadent things we had in previous laws, allowing businesses to live and to thrive, finally and for the future. He's definitely breaking up with the current decadent economic system we've had. This law will enable investment for our businesses, enable the company to live a new life, enable our businesses to develop, enable the restitution and revitalisation of our businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, this law brings a strong management, a management that will make the owner a profit. It will be the only condition and the reason for this and such management to remain in the company. No more delusions, no more fraud, no more motive. The motive is a profit that will give workers good, pay and profit. This law does not allow the sale of enterprises, not at all. The privatisation law clearly defines criteria that prevent any sale, but rather that investment enters into a process that will improve the company itself. This law allows foreign companies to arrive. Finally, together with foreign investors, our economy will stand side by side with strong European and world firms. The law allows small and medium-sized enterprises to develop, which represents the future of Serbia and Serbia's economy. It's clear by this law defined. This law allows for the successful economic transition of our entire country, finally after so many years, we have come into a situation that we have come economically out of the difficult moments that we have been, not just in these last 10 years, but in the last 50 and 60 years. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the principles of this law is economic growth. Economic growth and social stability are here. This concept is far more socially acceptable than any of those laws we have ever had, simply because, compared to those previous laws, it is far more encouraging a fairer balance of interest between employees and unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is above all of us as political parties and as individuals. He's in the interest of the entire nation, he's in the interest of our Serbia, he's in the interest of our children, for which we're literally hitting the foundations of a society today where they'll be the bearers very soon. Ladies and gentlemen, this law represents one job that has no one else to do but us. No one but us can do this job that's defined by the privatisation law. So let's pass this law, roll up our sleeves and finish the work we're doing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10054	The People's Messenger Vladimir Garčević has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Rada Bajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10055	The Honorable President, honourable MPs, I have listened here since this morning as everything is legal, how everything works, everything is passed, all laws are for the citizens of Serbia's consent, and I urge the Serbian Government to consider applying the Law on Gross Salaries when it comes to educators, health workers, and probably some other categories, to find a technical solution and to get their salaries, so that people can eventually go on vacation properly. We swear it's all constitutional, it's all legal, and it's broken on every side. The Constitution of Yugoslavia is being violated on Saturday, the Constitution of Serbia and all acts are being violated, and we want to and talk about entering the legal system. As a citizen of the legal system, I mean that the law is as it is written until it is changed or agreed. They say privatisation. I have my word for it. Tell the citizens about the sale or the sale, so I don't use a term that can happen and that would say theft. Why is that? Privatisation, that term was used by previous authorities, used by this one. I'm sorry the Socialists didn't sell out all the property and secure the social programme, they could rule for the next four years. It was our mistake, the socialist, because we wanted to preserve the property and that the sale could be made, privatization, up to 49%. He says, strategic partners and you've already brought them to the agricultural good in Sremska Mitrovica, which can only work, and he's already been visited by strategic partners from Italy and England. What does that mean? We'll sell out, and then our people, our workers, will get shares there, in companies that have no value at all. I ask a concrete question to Mr Vlahovic: what do you plan to do with healthcare, education workers, public service, where and how will they get shares, will Serbian citizens have any priority to get in companies that can function or will you give them in those companies that can't function? That's what you can see from this, because when we give 70%, it stays 30% and only companies that can function will be bought out. Bad enough no one, strategic partner won't invest in them, only to close it tomorrow, so they can make the sale. Why didn't you, gentlemen of the Serbian government, make it possible for the firm to work, the ones that could have been realistic, to work these 7-8 months? Why didn't you allow construction firms to work, so when is the offer to have a higher price? You say money will bring great prosperity. Give us the budget and tell us -- and we expect that, and we want to invest in these and these companies, to provide that for our workers and for the citizens of Serbia. No one in this country can be trusted in advance, not even you. Why? See when you sit down, 8 ministers make a decision on behalf of the entire government. How can we trust you? When you gentlemen are doing things legally, when you're doing things by law, let me, I'll support that part. When you give me evidence that it will be invested in the economy, that we will develop certain economic organizations and then it can go support. And as far as I know, you ministers worked on an estimate of Beocin's assets for a foreign partner, and the other minister came to work for 300 marks. I ask the question, how does this love of this country suddenly arise for 300 marks of wages when they were far away? They say certain ministers were one of them and on the Gajdar team. The question is, you say, you're taking privatisation in Romania. I haven't been to Romania, but I've seen the text in "Politice" and if it's true, then that privatisation has not produced any results in 11 years and don't offer us as a model of such privatisation. On the other hand, it's given first rights to the Agency, which means I come and I say-- you have to sell yourself, so much will be the price of the tender, the 30 days, and there's no story. Where's your union role? You say we're establishing 6-7 unions. Certain trade unions, Mr. Vlahovicu, you founded, not you as a minister, but members of the government. These unions have broken the working class and we have 6-7 unions, and now you've eliminated them, and they have no right to protect their position and their property. Why did we do that? From who? Of those who will sell out this property, and in the end not to use the word, wait and see where it will come. Next, no rights have any companies, no rights have certain citizens, and it seems that all rights are concentrated with you in DOS authorities. You can, you have a majority in the Republic Parliament, but there's time, there's nothing I can hope for, and I don't, but I have to tell one of my friends. He spent 10 years working abroad in that communist system and I don't want to say if mistakes were ever made, but if they were made then and we accept that they are, then they're still being made, because the workers have invested in creating companies, and you're taking away the rights to the funds invested. Then where's the justice? She's gone, so why don't we protect certain companies? She's not in the middle of a flight of power and she says she doesn't need it. The thermal power plants are able to tell the population that they have to be sold because we need strategic partners. Guys, don't believe it, because it's about the sale of complete social property without a perspective for the working class in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10056	The word has Minister Vlahovic, as a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10057	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, more for the sake of the public, and I have no intention of really reporting in the course of the plenary debate over the law. First of all, this minister doesn't work anywhere except in the Serbian government. I was in "Delloyte and Touche" and I was a partner with "Delloyt and Touche". Since January 24th, I don't work there, I don't have any equity, all of my "Delloyt and Touch" shares have been withdrawn. This minister, while working at "Delloyt and Touch" only cared about the interests of the company "Delloyt and Tusa". Since he works in the government, he is exclusively interested in the predominantly interests of the Serbian state. If everyone in this country took care of their interests where they work, I think this country would blossom. So much for my job. I work in the government and whoever doesn't believe can check it out. As for the sale story, I don't think anyone in this country can be convinced anymore. After 15 years of inhumane and unscrupulous, quiet, gray privatization, read the robberies, which took place on the route from social capital to private property? What kind of sale are we talking about? Are you talking about the capacities built in the late '70s and early '80s? You obviously didn't hear the data saying how great our Serbian economy is. You haven't heard that the accumulated losses are 500 billion dinars. You didn't hear there's no trade capital of 650 billion dinars. You haven't heard of this country's foreign debt as $12 billion. You haven't heard that the debt to foreign currency savings is 7 billion marks. It's a Serbian economy today. So what do you want? To share free shares of capital that are not available and to take off responsibility in the simplest way, to say -- here, these are your businesses now, these are your private businesses, Mr. Workers, so when you don't have the money to pay because the situation is what it is, then don't come to the government, because, here, we have done this human gesture and by running social principles, we've divided our actions into social principles. No, we're not gonna do that. Because we are serious economic reformers. We're not going to do it because we're not here to stay for two, three, four or eight years and enjoy the benefits of the government as directors of private enterprises or social enterprises, but because everything we've done means we've left our previous jobs to do something from this country. So this project can work. And it'll work. Don't worry so much. We're not gonna sell out, because it sells out when there's something, but we're gonna open the door for investment, for real money. We're not going to finance trade capital by printing money, so we're going to tax good businessmen, and we're going to tax the citizens. I'm sorry, that time has passed. This printing of money and everything else that was going on was a reason to pass before this law the Taxation Act on Extra Assets and Extra Profit. It's gone. We are entering the right, root, deep economic reforms that need to finally bring us one stable economy and stable social conditions. We don't want to share illusions with the workers and say -- the choices of actions that aren't worth anything. And then we'll wait for them on the stock market, on the corner, and then over the brokers, we'll have all this money, which has been eyelessly robbed in this country, to legalize over the stock market. Well, I'm sorry, it won't be. It won't be. So, gentlemen, we need real investment. [[Applause]] The state won't invest. It's past the time when he took money from Telekom, so then two or three people decided who would get what, in a supereconomic way, if his firm was closer to his heart, or party, or business -- well, what do you think the principles were used? The result of such a policy can be learned today in the Development Fund. Find out. They're gone. Money went down through the sand industry. That's not what we're gonna do. The creation of a stable economic environment implies the arrival of capital, and that is possible in a way, when the question of who owns social property is definitely solved, which will invest in this economy and open the door for new investments, and that is the new economic structure that we seek. And we will succeed, no matter how many suspects there are, not only in this room, but outside. And we have not taken the example of Romania, nor Bulgaria's example, and it is not only corruption that implements privatisation, but corruption is what methods of privatisation, or the method of selling, are used. I'm sorry. We didn't consider these examples. We will. And let me tell you, that we no longer distract the people with unnecessary patriotism, why I came here, for a number of reasons. First, this is a professional challenge. I didn't come here to steal and make money in the Serbian government, but to build this project. That in two years, the whole world says, well, look what those guys down there have done. Excuse me, my price behind that goes up. I'll get back to my job. Well, that's why I'm here. Of course I love my country, and of course I care about my children living in a stable country they'll be proud of, not waiting in line outside foreign embassies. But believe me, there are also very clear motives, and these are to really do something that the whole world will admire us for, and when the world admires us and our price on the consulting market, where we came from, will jump and these are very simple and fair reasons. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10058	The word has a folk MP, Rada Bajic, and then Dragos Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10059	Dear Madam Vice President, honourable Members of the People, I hear among you that you are interested - what they will now say, after the Minister. Well, I'll tell you right now that... I'm certainly smarter than you, but let's get this over with. First, to be clear, you just don't have to be so angry and angry that you spill if you hear of anything else. There are two concepts here. You have your DOS concept, and we have our own SPS concept. Gentlemen, how's the concept going to pass? That's what the future time will say. At that moment... They'll come and then we'll talk about your concept. I'm simply not going to say that your concept is the worst, as I won't admit that your concept is better than ours. I'll start with real facts and documentation that throws a different light at privatisation. You fight for your concept and you will be in a position to vote it, and those who decide will eventually be all those who are touched by this principle of privatisation. Therefore, according to how many members of the government were present here when Minister Vlahovic submitted an opening statement, I have estimated that this law is of paramount importance to the government. They were all there. If it is known to be an important part of the government's privatisation policy, as well as some other lobbies, then it is no wonder that everyone was present while Minister Vlahovic and the prime minister discussed the privatisation law. In our opinion, or in my opinion, when a man reads this law he sees that he is quite soft, vague, and in many parts vague. If I tell you that in many parts it is unclear, I will explain it later, but in those parts in which it is clear it leaves much, in fact, to the Government, and the inalienable rights of business and workers, pensioners and citizens are taken away. In those areas where it is deliberately unclear, the Government is left with its hands free to arrange and put this matter through sublegal acts, which should be a measuring grader, out of influence and out of control of these events that the government will carry out. So the rights that are abolished -- the fundamental right that we have insisted on for years and which has been a key element of the concept of privatisation -- is 60% of free actions to divide workers, and I will immediately say why that is. Take it from you that dozens of companies led honest and honest people, led by the knowers. (I would beg this gentleman of white hair, who says he follows closely, to follow very closely, for I have never interrupted him, when he was behind this pay phone, just Kovacevic, yes. ) So there were many hosts who invested in the company and did not share through the salary. You must have had a friend who said-- well, you know what, we got paid, we bought some machine from abroad, which is the most modern, and the others, who simply didn't take care of the development and promotion of the company, shared everything that could be divided into wages. And now, be careful, to what extent we lead to the absurdity of a particular company. Those who invested, those who were developing, those who were getting into the embargo to get a machine, to get parts, that the company was making progress, we brought them into the same situation with those who simply didn't take care of their own company. So the one who took the money home through his salary was put in the same position as the one who invested in his company. And now I'm asking you -- don't these shareholders, who took 60% of the free shares, don't know how to sell their 60% free shares? Now I ask the minister -- here we are -- we have 60% of the company's free stock, so do we think better agencies are going to sell the company than we are, so we're going to be looking for a strategic partner, and our goal, if we find the price, is to sell that part of the company. We're not gonna ruin the company. So, what's next - narrows down right or abolishs the free shares to 30%, 20%, or 10%, depending on the privatisation deadline. If I tell you, it seems to me, when I said that my first position, that for ten years this country and its businesses have been prepared to come to this situation, to weaken businesses, to get into a situation that is addictive, and to say -- well, well, they're not worth it, they have to be sold. Now, that looks like someone needed it, but time will show if it should have been. A 40th member of the tender privatisation provides only a free 15% share for employees. What is still being abolished is the right for citizens outside the specific enterprise to participate in the distribution of free shares in another company. The right of employees in their company is lifted and free of charge for the internships they have achieved in another company. So it's only been reduced to a certain part that he's spent, say, ten years -- his ten years is going down. The right of employees to free shares of 400 marks in anti-dinary value is now reduced to 300 and 150, depending on the rapid, armed and mandatory privatisation, depending on whether it has been privatised for up to 18 months, from 18 to 30, or over 30 months. The right to issue free shares is abolished, if 70% of the capital is not sold, followed by a complete abolition of the free shares, if 50% of the capital is not sold, simply a restriction on all sides, when they are employed. Discounts in the purchase of shares are lifted, the ability to buy shares in seventy-two wars is lifted, which is the possibility for workers to compete, and those who do not have enough trade capital on them, but to virtually lift their right to buy shares. Farmers are deprived of their right to the championship and even the right to compete for free actions in agricultural cooperatives and agricultural goods. You know, at this very time that you say so highly that it wasn't right, that many of them began to earn money, their efforts and their efforts were put into it, and now their right is lifted. A discount is lifted, and that would be one percent per year of training for wartime wartime wartime disableds, and what surprises me, that the billmaker could have proposed in this law, that a legal pension fund be abolished at 10% of all actions, and that the forecasts, or what was incorporated into the previous law, and that is the right of the pension fund to 25% of the capital, of the actions sold by the action fund, are now down to 10%, in order for that 25% to be completely abolished by the Labour Market Office. Well, he said the privatisation minister would be left with a large number of jobless workers. There are now no jobs, apparently at work, but this law will inevitably bring in a large number of workers who will be out of work. So what this law previously predicted - literally, it is the obligation of 25% of the shares sold, to simply meet these workers, to try, retraining or hiring elsewhere, to help through this fund. Practically, they've lost all this help. What are vague solutions - vaguely defined entities of privatisation are primarily, and include institutions. The implications will probably be great. The future methodisation value of capital is unclear. Article 24 states that this is to be left to the sublegal act. It's just, as it's going to be, it's going to be left to see for now. Also, in Article 24, there is a vague principle that says that market opportunities affect the sale price-capitals. Well, it's known, absolutely, that market opportunities always affect when something goes out on the market. But if you bring out the mandatory privatisation and the short term, and bring out all the actions, then what have you done, you have brought down the price. If a manufacturer shows up today with 10 tons of some goods, he'll have his price, and if 100 producers suddenly show up at 10 tons, what's the price? Well, it must be the stock market, and it's the big deal that knocks the price down. It was just as it was hoped, that suddenly a large number of actions appeared in the fast run, that their price would be taken down and down. The sales methods of the tender and auction privatisation are unclear. There are no criteria on which to determine - when to apply the tender and when auction sales. And what's the definition and key to this law, that's the obligation and the engagement, and they're contrary to Articles 55, 57 and 64. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 74 The Constitution of the SRJ. So, this is a law that is against federal laws, which, by the way, derogates these federal laws. But it's no wonder to me, if they could, with the law that's against all the applicable, human and Godly laws, deliver the patriotism of this country to other enemies, then it's clear to me that businesses are also being brought into this situation. I'd like to ask the minister a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10060	If the discussion called for the respect of the law and the Constitution, then it is essential that we respect what is our obligation at the meetings of the National Assembly, which is ten minutes for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10061	I think it's the first time I've timed out, just to remind the minister of one sentence. I'll read the question, Mr. Minister, to you, asked you, one of the 29 transition countries, 28 privatisation ministers ended up in prison. You said-- that doesn't apply to me. I'd really like none of you to be concerned, but, God, I think there's going to be anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10062	The People's Messenger Dragos Babic has the word:
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10063	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if for nothing else, then at least for my experience, which I can't say is small, because for over three decades I've been existing in this economic system, I feel the need to address the MPs and the public in this way. In fact, all these years, we've had opportunities, and we're especially older, to make sure of everything the predecessors have said, i.e. in the ineffectiveness of an inappropriate economic system, whose base is essentially an undefined social property flossule, a surrogate property in the economy, or a drone in the economy, which a Slovenian teacher, fifty years ago, introduced to us as a coward's egg. And here, for 50 years we've been growing that drone, and finally, well, after 50 years, we've had the strength to throw it out of use and put it in the past. For effects, which should not be repeated often, but not burnt to repeat -- the negative effects of the economy knew, of course, many previous economic policy makers, and Brozov, and later Milosevic's regime. There was a lot of dilemma about whether to apply something that is appropriate to the world, especially economic science, some more efficient and profitable system, because this system has so far existed with us and has allowed a very significant political influence, an impact that has not only had, but even some human and material income. Of course, it was difficult to deprive himself of privileges that he had been real for decades, weeded and with various coasts, beginning with working self-management, various reforms of ZUR and similar, which were either to help or at least to improve the system a little. However, its negative effects were only possible to compensate through permanent loans from the international community, of course, thanks to our geopolitical system. The moment that in the mid-70s a series of taps dried up in that sense and when we all faced negative consequences publicly, faced in the way that our ships and planes were taken from us in the Milka Planinc era, it was clear that this quasi social property was actually one form or, as one predecessor said, a sub-formation of state property. That is the reason to say something about it, which is that the legislator of this law had no intention of defining the concept of social property and of leaving it absolutely there, and I leave it to the lawyers and economists, to discuss what the subject is, what the object is. In my further statement, if I'm making any legal inaccuracies, consider it. In fact, the effects of such an economic policy were clear. What remains for us now is really perhaps the last moment of change, a change that essentially means exactly what Mr. Minister has suggested, which is -- expected investment and investment. That's what lawyers usually say about the legion of this law, because it's exactly what we expect us to do, not sell out, but invest. What's expected primarily? The primary direct investments stemming from the sale itself and indirectly are what is unfortunately in the state of our economy, i.e. businesses, that there is almost no company in which any strategic partner would not have to invest a considerable amount of funds. These considerable resources are in fact what we consider to be a fundamental driving impulse for this dwindling economy of ours. Of course, then it is constantly put on small and medium-sized enterprises, as they are expected to be first and foremost easily transformed and able to solve those effects that might be unpleasant in the privatisation process. It must be said on this occasion exactly about the team-negative effects that could be expected to be greater or less, in this, as we call it, the Olympic period of privatisation of four years. In fact, certain social tensions cannot remain neglected by this law. It is absolutely intensifying the government's commitment to social programmes, especially on the incentives of small and medium-sized enterprises in their development. For this to be done, I am a personal witness, because the government has already taken some action to open small and medium-sized enterprises, which aim to help some small craftsmen to support precisely those productive and profitable programmes that will not only bring profit in the first place, but also probably reduce the problem of unemployment and increase employment. To that end, I absolutely consider all the suggestions that fellow MPs suggested a month and a half ago, when a similar law on the incentive of small and medium-sized enterprises was under discussion. The law on small and medium-sized enterprises is really necessary and it will certainly, according to the minister's statement that it is already in the government's draft, in the near future I expect him here as a necessary element and following the element of this law. What I would particularly refer to, certain accentes of the predecessors, which is exactly what participation, which is heard very often, by workers who are employed in this privatisation process. I must point out and point out on purpose, to all those who have not read this law in detail, that they pay very good attention to the members of Law 16, 20, 21, 22, 40, 41 and especially 60. What's this about? The privatisation program is now being launched by the company's competent authority. Not only does he run it, but he is obliged to immediately implement the initiative, if adopted, to perform a union or an X union, as many of them as there are in the company. There is no other way for interested or employees to be interested in what is the subject and the privatisation programme, not only through the prospectus, but also through the privatisation programme which the competent authority, under the instructions of the Government or the Agency, was obliged to implement and agree. In that very sense, I am also talking about that final provision of written form relating to the sale contract. In fact, the sale contract absolutely determines who it is and when the final act is signed and when it enters into force. By signing a contract between the buyer, the seller and the agency, the final document and the public knowledge that something has been sold, of course in the form of shares is being provided. The Agency appears not as a controller, but as a Privatisation Procedure controller, and in this case it serves as a witness that the contract and the whole privatisation procedure has been carried out in accordance with the proposed law. Aroundly, it is something that guarantees that all employees must take care of the privatisation process and must be interested in what is privatised in their business, and practically everything is privatized. Although this is not decided, the subject of privatisation is the total property of one company. Of course, these legal formulations or some more precise things, concerning members or other effects of this law, I will not comment now. They may be subject once this law has been considered in detail. What's very important to emphasize, which is exactly the tension, which is the possibility of social tensions that xxx MPs have emphasized here. I have to stress Article 60. The law, which is absolutely and in the primary sense emphasizes just part of the funds that are allocated to certain funds and, under two, the incentive of development. This incentive to develop, which is not normally a percentage possibility to give at all, because it is a matter of something that has yet to be realized, and of course no one but the government has to determine it according to the priorities that will surely be in its jurisdiction, and for us, on the understanding, determine exactly what the goal is, and that is that incentive of development. Finally, in a conversation with our fellow MP, I came to the conclusion that some remarks were very interesting when it comes to secondary traffic actions, which are not covered by this law. I believe that it should be covered, although I have not been referred to the current law of the validity of the transport of securities of value, and certainly one law on stock exchanges, practically, a secondary change of actions, would be accompanied by the necessary legal document which the government and the corresponding Ministry of Finance or economy would certainly be preparing. What I particularly want to point out, which is a conversation with a fellow MP, which is a hint of a suspicious future of DOS and his remaining in power... (President: 10 minutes and 20 seconds. ....................................................................................................... It simply forces me to find and resolve the government and this composition of Parliament that the inevitable change of this species in our economic structure, however painful they may be and bear a risk to the legislator, we responsibly accept it, absolutely confident of the positive effects that practice will confirm. (President: 10 minutes and 40 seconds. ) And as an unfortunate phoenix, as well as our economy of Serbia, although covered by wings, this law gets that first movement swing towards a positive, recognised and capable economy, to respond to the assumed and inherited obligations towards its people and the world. (President: 11 minutes. Not only that, I am convinced, and I know that this law, which the builders would say, is the armature of the future economic and financial foundation for the building of the future that we are thus fortifying and leaving at the bottom of our future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10064	The word has a People's MP Dusan Cvetkovic, followed by MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10065	The esteemed presidency, esteemed fellow MPs, respected ministers, this legislative proposal for privatisation, although it contains some improvements compared to the previous bill, has a number of shortcomings. The main flaw in this legislative proposal is that it abolishes many of the previously established rights, and it will have countless more difficulties in applying than the old law. Let's start with the concept of this bill. The bill abolishes the socially fair privatisation model, which the DS also advocated years ago, even then as an opposition. This concept, removing the fairness of privatisation, has reduced the minimum enrollment of actions of the widest layers of population, employees and pensioners who have created this property in enterprises. This concept of privatisation defined by the government of Zoran Djindjic means the ultimate conversion of current social capital into state capital, and nowhere in the world has the state proved to be good, but always as a bad boss. Since it is certain that this government will not be able to sell out all the companies in its term, it will only rule them out. The administration of all enterprises to future new governments will provide once again the opportunity to make property relations as appropriate to these governments. This will create serious problems from now on, potential customers. That, dear colleagues, is certainly the biggest flaw in this concept of privatisation, which you call historical by tradition. If you start from the fact that in early January of this year, nearly 4,000 companies had completed their estimates of capital and 2,500 had the appropriate verification of the assessment, that public utility companies are now involved in the privatisation process, we rightly have to ask the respected ministers and fellow MPs of the position, what kind of decentralisation you were talking about earlier, when the government will in a indirect or direct manner have to decide on privatisation in all of them. Just to mention my Leskovac, do you really think that the government and resolution ministers, who have barely heard of the Barje dam near Leskovac, which is only one part of the walking waterway, can do better than SO Leskovac to privatise the woodwater or privatise the best-ordered market in Serbia, which Leskovac has in store. Certainly not, gentlemen, and if you are quite realistic, you must admit that this legislative proposal overemphasises the centralization of privatisation. Let's just see how the privatisation initiation is regulated. The agency's right to initiate the privatisation process on its own is indirectly unconstitutional. Since the sales, tender or auction model is being decided by the state, it is clearly bypassing employees, and it is certainly not good. Article 16 also formalises the role of the union, and the privatisation initiative of union organisations is only being notified and its opinion is not awaited, as within five days the privatisation initiative, along with a prospectus with basic data, is being delivered to the agency. If, respected colleagues, a decision on privatisation is made on Friday, it must be in the agency by Wednesday, and workers working on three shifts may not arrive. The agency's strength, respected fellow MPs, is seen in Article 17, under which the agency is not timed to inform the government if it initiates an initiative for privatisation entities with majority state capital. With this solution, the agency is practically older than the government. Is it logical that the agency or the Ministry of Privatisation itself has qualified people to call a tender or auction, and that a giant, like "Sartid", with close to 1,000 highly-violent experts of gray profiles, is unable to call or at least arrange a tender or auction. Also, some companies that are in the phase of negotiations with a partner, and also under this law, the agency takes over the job, can even bring down the value of the company prior to the conclusion of the agreement. The second lack of this legislative proposal is its disagreement with the Constitution of Serbia and Yugoslavia, in the same way as with the violation of the Constitution passed the Law on the termination of the law on its own transformation. Today you want the force of the DOS parliamentary majority to bring this largest legislature into a new breach of the Constitution. It is clear to you, honourable fellow MPs, that the key principle of the law, obligation and strictness violates members 64, 55 and 57. The Constitution of Serbia and Article 74 The Constitution of Yugoslavia. Essential members of the Constitution guaranteeing business independence and their equality on the market are being violated, but you are not ashamed to admit it, justifying it by the urgency of adopting this law and the inability to wait for the procedure of the Constitution. How do you think, Mr. Minister and you respected fellow MPs, to advocate the rule of law and to force the Serbian Parliament itself to knowingly violate the constitution that is in the world, except for you from DOS, the right sanctity. I must, fellow MPs, look back on some of the reasons why this law is passed, which does not stand at all, without calling it the right name, so as not to earn a warning from the chairman. The conclusion that, in general, that analyses of privatised companies under the old law have shown that there has been no improvement in the performance, as well as that there has been a halt in technical and technological development, certainly does not stand when companies from my area are taken into account, such as "Simpo" "Jumko", "Builder" or "Welder". The third serious lack of law is that the right to enter free shares up to 60% of the company's capital in auction privatisation is reduced practically to 20% or 10%, because those 30% will be very difficult to achieve. Such solutions will leave virtually everyone, except for the employees, without actions in serious and valuable companies, because everyone else is referred to the action fund. According to new solutions, even company employees cannot get free internships in other businesses. How to call this solution logical. If more than 50% of companies are not sold, employees will lose their right to free action, and this solution also abolishs employees' right to free action from privatisation through reconciliation. Only when this law is applied, the respected citizens of Leskovec, when 70 percent of the companies are sold, will you see as employees, that most companies will not be able to achieve your free shares fully, because part of the capital from 30 to 10% will not be enough to do so. The fourth lack of this law is, as we Socialists see, what the government mentions for the tender privatisation is 150 large companies, but they are kept secret. We believe that these 150 companies should be listed as an additional contribution to this law, as well as a prospectus for reporting to the privatisation company, as the company's previous bill had. It's not a secret, and I'm thinking that even strategic partners who would invest in Beocian cementar certainly want to know who these partners are. In the end, whether, Mr. Minister, on the basis of what you've introduced all over the country's intervention and when the sale of many companies is done, will we also sell Jugopetrol, which at this point sells fuel at 60% of European prices, be in a position to continue doing so. Will selling drugs to foreigners allow the government to determine drug prices of 60% of the domestic prices of medicines in Slovenia, as it has recently done. I'm sure it'll be impossible, but tell me at least you, fellow MPs from Leskovec, why Health, the wood-crawling pharmaceutical giant who feeds more than 10,000 Leskovcans, must go into recapitalisation or some sale to foreigners, when there is new pharmaceutical production and the largest in the country, only in the first year of work, as well as a large amount of pharmaceutical raw materials. Why sell to go this base drive which is still in the phase of determining the uptake capacity. What's there to invest in? The real and fair answer, fellow MPs, is certainly nothing. There is no other interest than for the government, uninterested in the work of the economy, this law wants to get rid of business concerns, including our mezmice "Health". In other words, this privatisation that the government wants to implement will lead to some serious problems. Now, quite in the end, a little hurt by what one of our colleagues was saying, without a single word about this law, I must tell you that this law was told by a man who until 1946... (President: Time. ....................................................................................................... And yet, at the age of five, he was either seven or eight in industrial Leskovac, the third city by development in Serbia at the time. If Minister Vlahovic asks his father -- who are the Lesnacs in Leskovac and counterpart Milka in Požega, someone will have to tell them about the Lesnacs, about the wealth of the Nationalisation Act. That doesn't mean this law shouldn't have been talked about as a real socialist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10066	The word has a folk MP Milos Nesovic, and the next reported is Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10067	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an SPS MP who represents an opposition in this House, should want this law to be as bad as possible, to cause unrest in our society, to leave workers out of work, to thus show that we Socialists were, or the opposition, right. But as a man, I want, since we have entered the privatisation process and the transition process, to make this law good, to bring our citizens something good. However, I must say that many stories and many praises scare me that it will be so. Since I have many years and a great experience in life, I have learned and, in the end, convinced myself and experienced that people who talk a lot and praise a document, usually not so. Mr. Minister, this applies to you, you told us that this is the best law, that it will best suit our citizens and our workers, and I would like it to be so, but I don't think it will be. There's something else I need to tell you. "Telecom" Serbia was sold in 1997 in June, when it was at great risk for investment in the Republic of Serbia. However, I am afraid, and I think that the Prime Minister and the government should think twice about improving relations with strategic partners who have not invested in small money, they invested 1.586 million dinars in cash. I'm not talking about how it was spent, but I know the shareholders invested it. I warn that they do not happen to hold a press conference at international level and explain to the international community that the Serbian side respects interstate agreements and action agreements, and thus we bring ourselves to the opportunity that no one from the strategic partners in the international community comes to us to invest. Privatisation is a very important system issue, it is not itself a goal. It is a means of introducing a market economy and the goal of entering privatisation is to create an efficient economic system that will survive on the market. We are tasked with building up the economic system to create conditions for further economic development, not to be burdened with the imperative of filling the state budget. In this business, it is not necessary to lose sight of an economic crisis on the world market whose relapses will not pass us by. The proposal for a privatisation law shows the government's intention to dynamic this task. If we want this job to be completed within the deadline, we need to stick to continuity, with the processes started, and therefore the need for multi-column privatisation. However, the bill takes little care of continuity. This could lead to a delay in privatisation by more than four years. The lack of continuity in the proposal has been raised on important issues in the current processes, and this is particularly manifested through the abolition of a number of rights from the previous law, which have been given to privatisation entities and employees. Despite the fact that the proposal cites the principle of stimulativeism, we practically have a degradation of stimulativeness and this contributes to the fact that many of the proposed solutions are unclear, large powers have been given to the government, and some solutions in the proposal are contrary to the applicable Company Act. The fact is that about 20 rights that have been promoted in previous laws, including only one: the right to broadcast free shares is reduced to 30%, 20% or 10% of capital, depending on the length of privatisation; the right of employees to free shares in the dinar equivalent of 400 DM for each year of work is reduced to 300 and 150 DM, at the end of 18 months, and 30 months; the right of employees to free shares, if no more than 50% of capital is sold; the right of the Republic Pension Fund to 10% of all company actions is abolished and the right to 25%, respectively, is reduced to 10% of the shares and sold by the action fund; the right of the labour market to 25% of incomes sold by the action fund has been abolished, which has so far been in the function of increasing employment. A number of other discounts in the purchase of shares are also abolished. A number of solutions are unclear in the proposed proposal, among which they are particularly visible - the intentions of the funds achieved in the privatisation process. The proposal generally says it will be used to encourage development. This does not show the rights of an economic operator to use these funds. The question arises what will be of sale, when we talk about Raška County, Magnochrom Car Factory, "Jasen", what will have "Ibar", what will have "Mineral Water" Vrnjica, Vrnjačka Banja, then the textile combination of Raška in Novi Pazar, the wooden combination in Tutin. and other privatisation entities. It is assumed that the majority owner will raise the market efficiency of the purchased company in order to obtain profits. However, the majority owner should be obliged to continue to work on the development of the operators and, for this reason, should not be aware of the general formulation of the purpose of the funds and to take away the full right of the investment entity to invest in its further development. It is therefore necessary to carry out the supplementation and part of the funds achieved from the sale to an undertaking. This dedicated resource would have a multiple impact, both on further development and on the creation of a commitment to a new majority owner or, as we call it, a strategic partner, to further invest and work on further development of a business operator, and for employees this would mean certain security in further work. I've also submitted an amendment on this one, and I have one answer, and I think that's what a good proposer should think about. The position and authority of the privatisation agency has not been determined precisely, as well as its responsibility in the sale, and we have no answer as to what will happen if the agency causes damage per company or does not allow it to function. The proposal defines a number of government powers without defined responsibility, as well as the authority of the resolution ministry. The proposal seeks to transfer to the Government a large number of powers for the adoption of sublegal acts, abolishing the Assembly's ability to control this important process. A number of solutions in this legislative project are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the independence of the company, guaranteed by the Constitution, is at stake by the Federal Law on Obligation and Constraint, the choice of the privatisation model, and there are many other conflicts with federal law. In addition to current difficulties in implementing privatisation, the proposal should take into account problems with the functioning of the financial market. We know that the success of privatisation is closely linked to the functioning of the financial market, which we do not yet have in the legal sense of that word. We start with a partial solution that can't be effective and I have the impression that it's experimenting. The state should stop experimenting in the domain of privatisation, namely transformation, although it is criticised, property, and prove its view of privatisation by completing this process. Privatisation will be completed when actions based on privatisation come to financial markets.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10068	The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic has the word, and the next is Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10069	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has made its position clear when it comes to the proposal for a law on privatisation. What we have warned is that this law should provide for companies to be divided, to be divided into large and small, not only for easier business and less obligations that the Government would have, if done, but for one practical reason, because we see that the amendments make proposals for autonomous provinces and local self-government from the total privatised assets of 5%. If this law remains in general as proposed by the Government, and this amendment is adopted, there will be some confusion or confusion. Then, following the adoption of this amendment, the committee responsible for adopting, on the basis of the reports of certain members, municipalities, i.e. local self-government that are more in the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, because it is not specified whether this is only in the Autonomous province of Vojvodina regarding local self-government or local self-government plus the Autonomous province. So that would be 10%, just addition, so it has to be precise. On the other hand, the advantage of this would be in the very fact that the means of purpose could be determined by privatising small businesses. There would be no problem under this law if it were said that 30% or up to 40% of the property sold to small businesses belongs to local self-government, but purposely defined to improve municipal infrastructure. This is how it is done around 5%, which are not in the legal act, and neither is the amendment to the predetermined objective, because if 5% is given and not said for purpose, the purpose is to make a general definition that it is to improve the economy in local self-government. Then it can come from experiences we know, there can be certain abuses or unintended spending, because it's a broad term. In this case, it would be clear what these funds would be used for by local self-government. Another thing that is not clearly specified in this law, which is the public implementation of this programme. It is in the part where the law on radioage is proposed that the agency submits at least twice a year to the government. This isn't some big gap so it can't be fixed. It might be better to stand, since we all know what speed this year will be at the beginning of privatisation, to stand at least twice within three months. It is understood, of course, that it is at least twice a year, that it is possible to defend this objection by the government, to say, every month or every 15 days, but not to be vague, it is best to build it into the law. When it comes to the public, it might be good for the method of selling or selling to public auctions to clearly specify in the law what is the initial price of the sale, to be the initial price of the public auction, to be the lowest estimated value of the capital. Here's why. In order not to make sense of things and to say -- well, I guess it won't go at a lower price, there's one danger of doubting the sale being made by public auction or simply by bidding, which is, in any case, the same thing, that the initial price is the lowest estimated value of the total capital. Something that can be precise in this bill is the methodology for assessing the value of the company. It is a good thing that there is not so much authority or the possibility of manipulation by companies, that the government has set up a deadline for companies to deliver the initiative, and even better yet, whether they send the initiative to the Government or the Agency leaves itself an opportunity to privatise. In order for it to be clear, it must be true to state the value assessment methodology, whether it is an income method, whether it is the net value, whether it enters it, but clearly in the law, because the government itself predicted an initiative in the form of a prospectus, that it leaves no doubt. As far as social work is concerned, the government has to do a social programme. We can't look and rely on the fact that companies will do social programs. Not all the companies the state of Serbia has and which are to be privatised in rank and wealth are equal to the oil industry of Serbia or those of the enterprises involved in the production and sale of mineral water. We know in what situation the economy is, and on the other hand we Serbian radicals have made it clear that the bad side of this bill is that this government is law enforcement and we don't speak Serbian radicals, never by heart, nor do we think of making cheap political points on this. We're talking on evidence. Here's the best evidence: in the privatisation of the Beiconic cement factory, the public was aware of all the affairs that rocked the sale or hint that the Beiconic cement factory would be sold to the French company. Don't think we Serbian radicals doubt that. These suspicions are primarily when it comes to the Beician cement factory within DOS. Did not individual leaders and individual members of DOS dispute the sale of Beocinski cement factories. Whether it's justified or not - it'll show time. We'll see about that. The biggest doubt is in fact, no matter how pure the government's negotiations and clean intentions, that the minister was squeezed by the argument of certain DOS members resorted slightly to a little untrue. He said it's our responsibility. That obligation was made by the previous government. The previous government signed the contract. We must honor the signed contract. It even went to that, and for the sake of truth I can't say that the minister said it, or so far away that they said -- Dr Vojislav Seselj signed it. That wasn't true. You could have stood up for some better arguments. You could have, if nothing else, done the truth to say that the previous government had not signed any contract, and especially that there was no paraphras by the vice president of the then government of Dr Vojislav Seselj. But pressured by the influence of your coalition partners, you had to make some peace, I don't know what peace it is, to resort to some lies. It turns out that in the first case of privatisation, you're starting to talk about what's not true. Although, again, it is all clear, it leaves doubt over the facts that take place around the sale of the Beocian cement factory that there are no, as the people would say, clean jobs. There's no problem coming out for this pay phone, Mr. Minister, and telling a story where you put your good intentions first. Between good intentions and ultimate results, the ultimate goal is always something that no one would want, which is personal profit, personal profit. You swear so much personally on your good intentions, in the good intentions of your associates, you explain it and you support it by your reason, this return from abroad, but it was still missing, Mr. Minister, that you swear by the line of Shamac-Sarajevo or Tito's staff so we can trust you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10070	Right to replication, Minister of Economy and Privatisation Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10071	It's not a bad track, either. Just about this second act, again for the public, since I assume the cameras are on, I never said anyone from the previous government signed a contract. Read it more carefully. What I said was that there was a decision by the previous government, the previous Ministry of Ownership Transformation on the choice of a strategic partner and also by the Assembly of Shareholders or employees, but by the name of Beocina, which I have my papers on here. So whoever wants to come by later and take a look.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10072	Mr. Mircic, you've caused a replica, so you can't get a word out of it. The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has a word, and the following is the declared Messenger Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10073	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, privatisation is a necessity and a necessary condition for a comprehensive market system. The Serbian Radical Party, during its ten-year work on this issue and acting as an opposition political party and through a small part of the government's participation, advocated that it is necessary and necessary, and we understand that only good privatisation, a good law on privatisation can trigger everything that is missing in our society and that these undefined ownership relations, the lack of titlemakers, have actually caused many problems over the past decades and created an inefficient economy and a longstanding crisis in development. This socialism, as a historically compromised concept, is actually the beginning of what is reflected in our society today. This system of working self-management, which has been following the period since 1974, since the adoption of the ZUR, when social property has been declared everyone's and nobody's, but these are not only the basic problems that have caused this situation in our economy, but everything that has happened to us in the past decade -- and these are the unprecedented pressures and sanctions of Western forces, America above all, systematic destruction, and thus our economy, which culminated in the aggression of the NATO Pact in 1999, when all our major economic systems, infrastructure, by the Western military alliance, are in the worst possible way destroyed and completely Satanized our economy, which has already fallen for sanctions and all these events in our environment. But in order to effectively implement privatisation, it must go to the concept of selling companies for finished money, as well as bonds to the SR of Yugoslavia on the basis of the unpaid income of foreign currency savings for citizens. However, not only for the country's commitment to citizens who have had old foreign savings, but for the total amount and that is what needs to be changed in this law. We, the Serbian Radicals, were based on a key segment of privatisation based on handiwork and obligation. If you look back, you will see that we were the only ones who strongly opposed the Federal Assembly by extending the period for value estimates of capital, i.e. by extending the period of application of that law, which obliged the economic operators, because we felt that each delay had a consequence that the economy continued to be happy, and in particular we opposed the decision, in the great love of that year 1994, the Socialist and Djindjic, to stop privatisation. We believe this legal project would have to improve in many ways. Especially when defining the concept of social property, which has caused us all these problems, and this problem can be solved by making it clear in the law that it is a sub-formation of state property, thus harmonising the law with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because social property is not defined in the Federal Constitution and it would avoid any legal unpleasantness of the opposition of this law. What is most important and is missing in this proposed legislative privatisation project is the fact that unemployment and property transformation, i.e. privatisation, are closely linked and that the legislator, i.e. the resolute minister, accidentally or intentionally did not want to have it in mind, given that it is necessary to install a provision in this law that the buyer is elected at the auction, obliging not to reduce the number of employees in the enterprise that is subject to privatisation. You mention some social funds, which in themselves are not enough, not to protect so many workers, who will lose their jobs, and serious social programs should certainly be the subject of your thinking and what you will do with so many people in our economy, in our industry, who will be fired. They must avoid any mistakes that have occurred to the countries of the post-socialist, the countries in our environment, the Eastern European, which here are potentiated as countries with a bright example, and particularly by the head of your majority, unfortunately, parliamentary groups in this assembly council, Mr Jovanovic, who does not know that all these countries have, for the past ten years, due to the applied shock therapy in the privatisation process, brought their own brutal product into full stagnation. For example, today East Germany is also receiving billions of aid for development by its assistants, those financial institutions in Europe and the world with which it co-operates, and today it is not able to develop healthyly and invest in its own development. The privatisation itself is not some magic wand, which will solve all the problems, as Prime Minister Djindjic said here, and Minister Vlahovic, on several occasions, and in today's heartwarming address to the MPs, but privatisation must be followed by many other rules and all that is missing from our state and our society, which must be resolved. First of all, we have to have a legal state, which is obviously not a demonstration of the current DOS regime, either at the federal level or at the republican level, and the fact itself, ladies of today, we have some regulation of the federal government, completely anti-constitutional, about the extradition of Serbian citizens, citizens of Serbia and the SRJ to the UN tribunal, talks enough about it. We don't have, and we need to have, to fit into this concept of privatisation, the morale of the executive government, morals in business relations, we don't have the functioning of the market, the securities of value, we don't have a healthy monetary policy, no matter what the concept of it exists, and it's all those things that are being followed, and that are going to mutilate this legislative proposal and the future privatisation process, because, frankly, based on everything that's been going on so far, no one else can believe that this DOS government is going to have all these basic principles, which I've listed, found, and that it will allow them as such to follow the privatisation process. This law also sanctions those who have already used at least one share and at least one year of internships in previous privatisations, and deny them further rights. The procedure through the public tender has been given in very general terms, it is not specified at all what the criteria for the sale of enterprises are and which customers will choose. As for Beocinskicementary and Lafarz, contracts, agreements that have been concluded, I, Mr. Vlahovic, will remind you of a statement made three days ago by Ivo Deklerk, Executive Vice-President Lafarza. He said what you just said here, and not even my colleague Mircic said wrong, but it's obvious that you're hiding from the public what's actually going on behind this, what are the cool games about and why the agreement is signed before this legal project of yours, before we got the material. So, the final agreements, says Mr. Deklerk, on all the details reached on 19 April and 21 May this year, and Lafarz now, according to Declark, looks forward to the start of co-operation and for the government of the Republic of Serbia and the resolution minister to keep their promises and to honour the agreement. So there's no dilemma here. What is very important and what must be changed here is to define the level of deposits, because it is not clear on why Mr. Vlahovic, which is given this law, will determine the level of deposits when selling companies? The decomposition of the flag, popularly called, is something that hurts today, which weighs and is followed with concern by almost every Kragujevcan, not only by them, but by all those who are co-operatives of the flag group, who are uncertain in the future. You've completely shocked them with such a project, because this government has "experts", but not people who know what the production process is and who don't know the car factory, and you should know it, whether it works or doesn't work, assistive programs can be welcome and may be, but it doesn't solve the problem itself. Those who, as you say, do business by new technologies (side expression), are not going to do so, as you have prescribed by this law to be a strategic partner of the flag, which you may not be able to do according to the legislative project that you are offering, to be restructured, because there are many problems, and then the question is asked - and what are you going to offer these people, and with what you're going to do before them, when you deceived them two months ago, which is already yesterday, by advertising the union culminating, because you haven't fulfilled everything you've signed with them in small hours, which is that they have a working number of 15 days ago, which you promised them, and that they get the amount of compensation for what you promised them. You deceived them, and then how can they trust you to succeed in that way, finding a partner like that, who's going to buy the flag tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10074	The right to a replica, Minister of Industry and Privatisation, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10075	So like this, another one or two sentences about Beocin, and that's how I end up today's case. The previous government, the previous government has chosen a strategic partner named Lafarz, based on the 1998 tender, which I have documents in my bag, who loves, to look at. The choice of a strategic partner based on the tender is also a valid legal document. So it's not just a contract that gives birth to appropriate legal consequences, it's also decisions based on the end of the tender. The contract was not concluded because sanctions were found behind it. When we formed the government in January, what we managed to do, that's -- let's say that different market conditions are and that the value should be different, not the one based on which Lafarz was elected in 1998. So that's how we got into negotiations with them. Therefore, Mr. Deklerk, in his statement (I did not listen to his interview, but I also read it in the paper) says that in April, April and May, arrangements were reached on the price, which, gentlemen, is twice as high as in 1998. And the conditions for Beocin are twice as good as those that were in 1998, and the conditions that this government has achieved are 40% better than the first next cement factory that was privatised in Central Europe. In other words, conditions, capital value, 190 million marks, 70 million investment, with a bank guarantee, and full coverage of the social programme, is something that has not been achieved for any cement factory in central Europe. I'm afraid, once the tender is repeated, we'll get worse conditions, but please, that's the principle of transparency -- workers have decided as they have decided, I hope they're capable, and leadership, that tomorrow they're carrying the consequences of worse offers. There was a final decision on them. As for the flag, the flag decomposition does not mean decomposition of the vehicle program. You know very well that, besides the flag of the vehicle, which is concentrated in the flag of cars and the flag of trucks, including the sales-service network, there are a large number of enterprises, which can fully continue their lives on their own and seek their own ways in privatisation. And, that there's no need to hold them, that the top of the system is choking them, and that's the principle that's so defined -- the decomposition of the system, that what can continue its life on its own, to continue. Vehicles to be fully technical and technologically rounded, but with an appropriate number of people, which was also an agreement, reached that April night with the union. We are today at the end of this programme and on the agenda we achieve what we wanted, which is that the flag ceases to be a social case of this country, rather than being a stable economic entity, which will make profit and, among other things, will contribute to the state by paying taxes. This is called a reduction in the size of an undertaking that adapts to market potential and sales potential. (President: Time. ) This is the only way to resuscitate the system and consolidate large systems. There are social programs here. Since there's been a lot of calling - where's this social program? There is no social programme in advance for the entire economy. There's a social policy that's very clear, and programs work for every company in particular, when they get into privatisation. Thank you. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10076	You have no right to a replica. You didn't mention it at all. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: He mentioned the previous government. Are you the previous government? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Yes. You're not. You have no right to a replica. Based on Article 96(3), I don't think you have the right to a replica. You are not a representative of the previous government, nor do you have, as such, and even if you did, you would not have the right to a replica. The word is Milorad Mircic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10077	I'm advocating a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm advocating a matter of exposure to the Secretary-General. The Rules of Procedure make it clear that there is a need to speak, and MPs, as well as ministers, about what is on the agenda, and that primarily implies that the truth must be spoken. Mr. Minister, with all due respect and all the understanding of your desire for this law to be passed as soon as possible, just and justly implemented privatisation, don't in order to serve yourself, now I must say, falsely. (President: Mr Mircic, I have not given you the right to a replica, but you have reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm just explaining what a violation of the Rules of Procedure is. (President: You cannot enter the debate now. It is not true that the previous government signed any agreement with Lafarza. She signed consent to the Beocian cement factory's Assembly so they could negotiate with the French company. That's what you have in front of you. (President: Mr. Mircic, I did not give you a word based on the right to reply. I give you the first warning under Article 101.) After all, if you claim it's true that the previous government signed the contract, then the representative of Lafarza is lying. (Alexander Vlahovic, from the place: I did not say "contract". Well, Minister, I think I'm done with you and we agree. Chairman, I ask that when something is mentioned about the SRS, you give the word to Tomislav Nikolic, who is the deputy president of the parliamentary group, and not that you decide whether he was a member of the previous government or not, and from this address you say such words. It's not harmless. I don't know how much you can figure it out, but you're just telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10078	First of all, Mr. Secretary is entitled to a replica. I already explained that once - when you get the right to a replica, you don't have to stick to the subject of the agenda, but you answer what you're called for. Milorad Mircic, from the scene, has to tell the truth. And it is you who will determine whether anyone is telling the truth. Milorad Mircic, from the scene: It is not you. Don't get any out of the place. I'm obliged to explain the injuries to you in the Rules of Procedure, and you're guessing here with me. On the right to replication, in accordance with Article 96(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be decided by the Chairman. If you're not satisfied, we can put it to a vote. That's what the Rules of Procedure is like. Milorad Mircic, from the scene: What are you angry about? I'm not angry at all. The word is Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister who received the word past the Rules of Procedure, was injured by Article 99(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, by which the messengers of the people are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. Ma'am, I'm surprised why you didn't react when the minister from the pay phone said a clear open threat to the employees of the Beocian cement factory and when he told them - or you'll be privatized as Diloji shower... (President: Mr. Nikolic, you're also in violation of the Rules of Procedure, because you went out to advertise the injury and now you're re-entering the replica. I'm explaining to you how he hurt himself. Read the Rules of Procedure. I have three minutes to explain to you how a breach of the Rules of Procedure was committed. The minister didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure by going out for a pay phone or leaving a pay phone. He hurt while he was talking. Since you're not following what we're saying here in the O.R., I'm obliged to tell you what the minister said and tell you how I, as a Parliamentarian in this room, interpret it. It was a clear threat, only you wouldn't understand it like that. Either it's gonna be like Deklerk said yesterday or -- come on, you workers, take it easy. How will they now if the government threatens to have to or as the government told them, and that, it says, somewhere from March and April of the month, and then there was no privatisation, Mr. Minister. The privatisation was stopped. How did the government deal with privatising the Beocinski cement factory in March and April, when it was an interregnum between that law and this one, in which no privatisation law was applied. Of course, I'm going to use my exposure to explain your involvement in all this and what makes me more doubt your intentions are fair. When you warn SPS MPs, why they advocate the distribution of free shares, read what you represented as many as a few years ago. Such sunflowers in economic science do not know economic science. It can be me as a layman in the economy that in 1994 I advocate to share shares with citizens, and in 2001 to ask for a buyer to be found and to ignore that the factories are workers' factories. It's the experts who run this country's economy that sure as hell can't make that kind of pounding. If you'd driven a plane and made such a banging, you'd have crashed. (President: Mr. Nikolic, is that the same thing as Article 99? Did you last 2.48 minutes? I still had 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10080	I didn't even tell you during the time. I didn't warn you at all. I absolutely think there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure of Article 99(1), because I believe that the minister, Mr Vlahovic, absolutely respected the dignity of the National Assembly. If you're not happy with the answer, I can put it to a vote. The word is Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10081	So that there is no confusion, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, I don't mind when Mr. Vlahovic comes out, because everything he says in favor of his defence or the current government he represents here is just more of a defeat for him. (President: Ms. Jovanovic, which member do you advertise? ) Article 96. Be patient. Why are you nervous? (President: Article 96 is a right to replication and I did not give it to you. Miss Jovanovic, please do not violate the Rules of Procedure. ) Article 96, which clearly determines who is given the replica. The Republic can't get a minister. The minister can get a word when he asks. But don't abuse the place of speaker, where you sit, and inform the MPs that you gave the minister the right to a line, when he can come forward when he asks for a word, and that's something else. Then he has even more right, here, even in the minister's favor, to speak, and he had no right to reply. To be clear, it doesn't bother us, because everything he said in favor of defence and his concept, and above all speaking about the flag group, about decomposition, it's terrible, because when it comes to the fact that the minister of this place said that management is suffocating employees, everything is clear to you when you bring someone like Miodrag Svicevic to the head of management. He fell in there with a gun. (President: Miss Jovanovic, I did not give you the right to reply. ( ) Therefore, take care of the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10082	Ms. Jovanovic, you were obviously absent, I think you were justifiably absent from that session when we agreed, because of Article 88, which is quite unclear in paragraph 5, that we give the minister, with the consent of the president of your parliamentary group, Mr. Seselj, who actually suggested that the minister have the right to reply, not to appear every time. Miss Jovanovic, are you satisfied with the answer? I'm so glad. The word has a folk MP, Jakov Stamenkovic, and the next is a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic. I'm sorry. First of all, there's a word from MP Miomir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10083	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so-called In October's revolution and the arrival of the DOS conglomerate to power, Serbian citizens were given the opportunity to compare the results of the former government and the results of the new government given in election promises. By criticizing the former government for all and all things, the new government paid special attention to the economy. Normally, there was nothing wrong with them, nor were the legal regulations that regulated the issue of ownership transformation. They bring in a number of legislation in the field of tax policy, and all with a view to how the new government says that by launching the production cycle, there will be an improvement in the standard of living of all citizens. False economic reforms have as their possession a large tax burden on workers, citizens and employers. Serbian citizens now, after only 9 months of DOS authorities can assess for themselves how improved the standard of living is, and workers and employers have something to brag about. The economy, which under difficult working conditions, and also under sanctions, NATO's aggression and other, as it has done, has been brought into a state of collapse after the new regulations have been applied. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on its own transformation has halted the process of ownership transformation in the company. Reason for the adoption of such a law as the Proposer, i.e. The government of the Republic of Serbia states in its reasoning, because the existing law has given a distinct advantage to employees in the transformation process. The workers had a championship compared to the other citizens in enrollment of the first round of action, which refers to the earlier law. What if, for employees in social enterprises, the purchase of production funds and the realisation of profits was not done by the state or by some biscuits from the European Community. On the basis of their work and their profits obtained and used, worked and maintained, there is no excuse that these businessmen have more rights than the company employees themselves. The adoption of such a law is in direct contrast with the Constitution of Serbia and the SRJ, and the obligation and engagement as key principles of the law are contrary to Articles 54, 55 and 57. The Constitution of Serbia and 74th The Constitution of the SRJ. No wonder they are being stopped in such a law, when the government or government of the SRJ two days ago brings an act repealing the SRJ Constitution and putting the country's largest legal act out of force. This is familiar to you, and the citizens of Serbia certainly give their word. The required obligation and the obligation to sell capital and enterprises and the obligation to change the business status is directly contrary to constitutional provisions. The SPS is not against privatisation. The titler's property must be known. Unfounded claims are that foreign capital will not enter our factories and businesses, if workers would be majority owners, and that workers themselves are not able to manage the company and have actions. The proposal for a law on privatisation, explained by Minister Vlahovic, is a whole new solution to finding the owner of property. It's not about ownership transformation, it's about classical privatisation. I'm not against solutions like this, but in addition to clear settings and legal solutions, the bill has a number of shortcomings. That is also the subject of numerous amendments by the opposition and the leading parties. I'm just surprised why there were only 168 MPs in the hall, among which more than 60 MPs were from the opposition's ranks, besides the presence of the Prime Minister and members of the government. It is very strange that the most important law that should bring about rebirth and root changes in the economy, as well as in the lives of all citizens, is that out of 175 MPs, the majority will be present around hundreds. Comments on the Proposal: in Article 24, Section 5, the determination of the value of capital or property was made to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to prescribe the methodology for applying the value of capital or property of the privatisation entity. This attitude is very important. The Government shall be given the opportunity to determine the methodology for assessing the value of the capital. I think that should have been clearly laid down in the bill. There are several methodologies that can give different values of capital to these companies. It is possible that the methodology set out in this way does not provide a proper assessment of the value of the company's capital. The Assembly, as the most important legislative body, should determine the capital assessment methodology. I ask Mr. Minister, is this member or the position of this member saying that what you are criticising, that in the current law on ownership transformation, the methodologies that were present in these legal solutions were not good and were not enough to say what is the real estimate of the value of capital. And at the same time, according to the Extraprofit and Extra Property Act, they can come under the influence of this new law that we've just passed. There's no methodology prescribed here. Is that a method of offering or some other method? The reality of adopting such a legal solution lies with the highest legislative body, i.e. The Assembly prescribes a methodology for this methodology to be correct and to be in the spirit of all these reforms that you are predicting. I'd like to get an answer. The proposal for a privatisation law provides for the sale of 70% of the capital to be privatised. Such a criterion fully degrades employees' investments so far and places them in an unequal position with other entities. The model sells through a public tender under the control of the state is nothing but a new nationalisation, which is contrary to the efforts of the current government to pass the rules on denationalisation. It leaves the right to acquire shares without compensation in the process of selling capital to public auctions and up to 30% of the value, but only if the privatisation process is implemented within 18 months of the date of validity of this law. For most companies, this deadline is difficult to achieve because of the complex privatisation process. For this reason, it is likely that employees will be left with no compensation, not more than 10% of the value of the company's capital. The legal solutions given in the Privatisation Act allow the state to sell social capital through their bodies without the participation of businesses and employees. It has a crucial impact on the choice of the privatisation model, the definition of the terms of sales, the choice of customers, and the funds from the sale remain with the state. Sales contracts are signed by the buyer, the privatisation entity, and costs that are not small are borne by the company. The role of the company's body, especially the union, has been minimised. As a lesson in all of this, this is what comes to workers and those who created these entities and the production means are being watched on my part. The one who doesn't, he won't have any more, and the one who has, he'll have more. For this reason, I believe that the amendments made by both the opposition and the positions should enable the Government to withdraw this proposal and to make and make a concrete and correct proposal related to the right privatisation law, which I advocate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10084	Thank you. Reporting to the Rules of Procedure? The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10085	On the basis of Article 93. I ask the Rules of Procedure to establish the quorum, because out of 180 DOS MPs in the O.R., there are currently no 50, 60, but it's full of restaurants, full of halls, Lord Michaels, buying, trading, but they still have to be here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10086	National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic asked to check if we had a quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I ask MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic to also insert his identification card. You have no right to speak, I have not offended you. I just asked you nicely to insert your card. I know there's more of us and we actually have a quorum. We have 114, with SRS MPs not inserting their identification cards and thus violating Article 113 and Article 80. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Anyway, since we're getting close to break time, I'm setting a break by 3:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10087	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I received information that the DSS Parliament Club has a meeting and that's why we're gonna take a 10 minute break, because we don't have a quorum. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into your MPs to determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum and that we can continue a joint principled search on the Privatisation Law proposal, on the Privatisation Agency's proposal and on the Proposal for a Act on the Action Fund. I give my word to the MP James Stamenkovic, and the next one is the folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10089	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, if you'll allow me to begin with, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate all water polomen on the winning gold medal and to wish them a lot of success in the future. Now let me get back to the agenda theme. As you know, we have so far had two laws of property transformation of social capital, namely: the Law on terms and procedure of converting social property into other forms of property and the Law on its own transformation. The essence of the first law is predicting incentives for employees to buy out shares, and the second is the right to acquire shares without compensation up to 60% of the total value of capital that included employees and pensioners from the social and state sectors. What is the effect of applying these two laws? During the period of validity of the first law, a small number of companies were privatised, and their business analyses showed that this type of privatisation did not contribute to improving the efficiency of manufacturing and management. This creates privatised entities which are not attractive to invest a strategic partner, and these companies are unable to provide the necessary investments for their further business and survival in the market. The Law on its transformation gave explicit advantages to employees in the transformation process. The workers had a championship compared to other citizens in the first round, as well as a core championship in the second round. In the absence of effective control, selective information and other ways, other citizens prevented themselves from exercising their rights. These two privatisation attempts failed because the ruling parties did not sincerely want to implement the privatisation, because it was neither mandatory nor time-limited, and it was also deeply unfair. That this is true and that such an opinion is shared and representatives of the former regime, I will read to you a part of the report of the Regional Chamber of Commerce from Leskovec, which was written by representatives of the former regime: "In the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, as well as in the Regional Chamber of Commerce of Leskovac, several meetings were organised at which this topic was discussed, first of all, which takes place very slowly through the transformation action and has been observed that the management of a large number of enterprises is not taking any action, even according to the obligations provided for by law. By postponing business on the preparation and implementation of corporate transformation, not only does it delay resolving the issue of efficient business and creating conditions for business development, it also leads to the melting of social capital. In an effort to survive, businesses, on the one hand, are increasingly creating commitments, with no real prospects of meeting them, and on the other hand, for paying their own income, selling their business assets, business premises, machines, etc. In both cases, it is about melting social capital and illegal transformation. "So that's what the representatives of the former government said, so that you don't deliberately interpret what we say and think about this law. So what is the advantage of the proposed privatisation law? The proposed concept of privatisation allows for the inflow of new capital through privatisation, thereby creating conditions for the start of economic reforms. So, the new privatisation law provides investment, development and social security. The proposed law provides for the possibility of public control of the entire privatisation process, provides for different ways of privatisation depending on the size and strategic importance of the entity to be privatised and provides for a market-based way of determining the transaction price instead of the administrative arbitration so far. The proposed law also provides for comprehensiveness, i.e. the subject matter of privatisation is both social and state capital, as well as property in enterprises and all other legal entities. The law is stimulating because it provides for the division of actions without compensation, which is a major incentive for inclusion in the privatisation process. He was also armed for four years, and after that period, privatisation of social capital entities is taken over by the Privatisation Agency. Finally, the proposed law provides justice because it allows for the sharing of actions without compensation, not only for employees, but also for pensioners of the privatisation entities and for all full-time citizens, as well as legal certainty, because the law recognises the rights acquired in the privatisation process carried out under earlier applicable rules, all legal and physical persons who have acquired those rights. For the success of this concept of privatisation, there is a need for a specialised institution on behalf of the State to carry out professional tasks related to: planning, organising and controlling the privatisation process. To that end, a law establishing a privatisation agency was also proposed. It is tasked to ensure, through its professional services, the effective implementation of privatisation operations within its jurisdiction, to provide permanent information and education to the public about the results and how the privatisation process takes place, as well as to control the legality of the privatisation process. A package of legislative proposals that should provide efficient privatisation also includes the draft action fund law. The action fund, as a specialised state institution, is tasked with carrying out mandatory and timed privatisation. The basic principles on which this law is based are: obligation, timing, the public in work, non-discrimination, investor attraction, and the activation of the financial market. The adoption of these laws and the adoption of a series of accompanying legal solutions and sublegal acts in the field of economic life create conditions for the start of the process of restructuring the economy, based on the concept of market openness and its inclusion in European and global integration flows. Such privatisation should allow for the realisation of our strategic goal, which is to change the economic structure and create an efficient economy. This is what the citizens of Serbia expect, based on such pre-election promises, we have received confidence and we will implement these reforms. I therefore call on Members to vote in favour of the proposed law. Since I have a little more time, I would use it, since the MP from Leskovec mentioned, among other things, that "Health" must be privatized, to tell him, because I happen to be a member of the Management Board, that "Health" should be privatised among other things and that there have been numerous abuses and robberies in that company. Let me just mention that four apartments are divided into officials, former directors, who have taken these apartments outside the decision of the housing commission and who have been subject to disciplinary proceedings and have been suspended, are also being prosecuted. Among other things, because the former director of "Health", the CEO of the company, gave the company "Health" which was opened in Cyprus in time to make it easier to deal with the conditions of sanctions, and then simply assigned himself to the trustee in Cyprus and now that man comes and negotiates with "Health" as a business partner. As far as the plumbing is concerned, you also mentioned it, to tell you that it is one of the strategic features that got the water line to build and the water system of Barja. As the funds have been spent, this will be heard, we just have to wait a little while longer for the presidents of the courts and prosecutors to be doing their job, and you've got that official document where nine million dinars have been spent without purpose instead of finishing the water system of Barja, for swimming pools in Leskovec, which to this day do not work. So these are my arguments to what you had to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10090	The word is Gordana Pop - Lazic, the next reported MP, Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10091	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my father was born into a peasant family, next to him four more children. World War II, two older brothers go to war, and he as a servant to the neighboring village at the age of 11, and remains there until World War II is over. At the age of 15, he goes to the Šamac-Sarajevo railway, and as a 16-year-old, he comes to Belgrade to study the trade and becomes an excellent master. Always working by impact, if you know what it is, how many pieces you make and earn. He retired full-time and earned so much pension that today is more than my salary. Just because you're asking a question -- and the house -- I want to tell you that this father of mine nursed two children in a patriotic spirit, educated them and acquired some property. There's little fatherland here, there's little heritage. I was smart my grandfather so in the '60s told my father--you know, son, it's that you left, but as soon as the Berlin Wall falls, know the Kraut will hit us again, let's keep this wasted house in Securich so you can hide the kids, if you have to. Today you're imputing lies to my honest father and me through your DOS press. The only thing that's true from this, what you're doing in the paper as a hickey on Serbian radicals, is that my father bought and paid honestly, like all the other citizens, this building plot. What you know, and you don't want to write, is that this isn't his building and that there's only one small part inside that building that's his property. They also have my mother-in-law and my mother-in-law's house on Ban's Hill, built in the '60s. He knows Mr. Djelic, he was coming to see the apartment right next to that house, as she looks, but it probably didn't suit him. You'll pass it on to Mr. Djelic, he liked the one down in Leška, there's a better view on the lake. He has my brother, thank God, also some immovableities and a wider family, so when you write, write down what the Pop-Lazic family and the Milic family have, and write down for you all who have or don't have something. We're not rootless grain, thank God, it's all right. The only thing my husband and I don't have is no movement, so I decided to apply to this apartment assignment assembly, and I guess in 20 years, the internships and three kids, no one before me will be on that apartment assignment list, and if I don't get an apartment from this assembly first, because all my rights from working relationship here are coming true, we're going to go through the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10092	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please get back to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10093	Given that Mr. Budimovic spoke such a memoir about his grandfather and his father, I suppose my grandfather and father are nothing worse than Budimovic's ancestors. You didn't warn him, so let me bring out what I have. What you wrote today, gentlemen, that I received 350,000 dinars from SO Zemun, this is the ultimate hack on us Serbian radicals. After this article, I can only expect some criminals with socks in front of their apartment, who would break in and look for what I don't have. That's what you're going to do directly. Since you can't find any crime, you're making it up. It shows the whole essence of your policy and your authority based on lies. There's plenty of time left, of course, to look into the law on privatisation, the agency and the action fund, even though it's 10 minutes to talk more specifically. My colleagues have said a lot of things conceptually, and I'm trying as a lawyer to draw attention to some legal illogicalities, and I think that's what needs to be considered. One of the logical remarks was that it was too much to regulate this matter with three laws so that, given the subject of its regulation, it would be far more comprehensive to regulate it by one law, and it would be in the spirit of the modern legal order that we stand for, see-through, and we really think so. So we could regulate all of this matter with one law. We see a lack of logic that is purely legal violence, in Article 15. The law, I will read it "when the privatisation process covers assets taken from natural and legal persons by applying the rules on the confiscation of property in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is laid down by a special regulation", I underline, "which regulates issues related to the return of property etc.". We must say that there is no such special regulation and the question is whether it will ever be and whether this or some other congregation will ever bring it. Although we are Serbian radicals against denationalisation, first of all because of absolute obsolescence and the passage of time that prevents it from being carried out so as not to cause many harmful consequences, we point only to this in order to get to know the public that such a law does not exist, and whether it will exist - we will see. In Article 28, which is in the chapter - Public tender, as one of the principles of privatisation of capital should certainly be complemented by the social programme and the environmental programme, because we will only thus protect our workers from being fired very quickly or immediately as a technological surplus, and protect us all from the outdated and the health of destructive technologies. What does the Minister of Labour tell us about that in "Politice" since 25 May of this year? "No one will stay on the street," the privatisation minister said during talks with representatives of the metal unions and leaders of the auto-industry and agricultural machinery enterprises. Maksimmunovac won in the privatisation process will be invested in production. It's an absolute lie, because in this law there is no lie. In Article 61. The proposal for a privatisation law is foreseen as follows - 10% of privatisation goes for pensions and disability, 5% to pay the benefits of persons whose property is nationalised - although we have no basis for it, I said earlier - financing the costs of carrying out the sale, paying back debts whose debtor or guarantee is the Republic of Serbia, as far as it is not said, to encourage development, what the minister is talking about, we don't know how much, for other purposes, we don't know which, or how much. In Article 20, the fact that the Minister of Labour promises us social cards and that every worker who is declared to be a technological surplus will be cared for by the state, do not give you such protection in the case of such irresponsible government and labour minister, a former union worker, whose resignation workers are already very much seeking. The government proposes two ways of selling, through a public tender and through public bidding, but does not prescribe criteria that would be binding in one way or another. It will already be the Minister of Privatisation to determine and do according to his own opinion, given his own interest or interest in his consulting house "Diloji and Tush". As proof of that, it's an affair about the sale of the Beocin cement store. Mr. Vlahovicu, Lafarz, here in the paper, I now warn you that they have already signed a contract with your government and that you are not opening a new tender, because you will appear to be in front of international arbitration in Paris. Looks like someone's already taken their percentage, so now you've found yourself in unguarded grapes, as our people say. Article 32 states that public tender participants have the right to object to the legality of the procedure. The complaint shall be submitted to the Minister responsible for privatisation operations within eight days of the date of receipt of the notice of the results of the public tender. After the submission of the complaint, it shall be decided within eight days of the date of receipt of the complaint. The act of the authority brought upon receipt of the objection is final. This, gentlemen, is the opposite of Article 22. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribes that everyone has the right to appeal. Here, practically the agency and the minister, both in the second and second degree, decide and there is no possibility of judicial protection, which is an unprecedented precedent...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10094	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, it's 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10095	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10096	The word has the People's Messenger Toma Busetic, and then Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10097	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, is very difficult today to talk about this very important law, at a time when the federal government better say the U.S. government is adopting a regulation that violates all legal norms and the highest legal and political act, i.e. The constitutions of both the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia. It is even harder that this regulation should be an alleged cover for the delivery of former leaders... (President: Mr. Bushettic, please return to the topic. I'm warning you. )......................................................................................................... And all the defenders, the Hague executioners. It's true. When it comes to a months-long meeting of the National Assembly, we have passed many laws here. All laws mainly produced new charges and new taxes and denied certain rights of workers and all employees. However, the law, the law on privatisation, is the most devastating and will have the most severe consequences for all employees in Serbia and citizens in general. This law is done by the dictatorship of the West, by the arches they have prescribed, and its essence is the ad hoc sale of all that is worth and all that is profitable. The adoption of this law will cause enormous damage to the Serbian economy, which in the most difficult conditions of sanctions has preserved its basic resources. By adopting this law, she will de facto cease to exist. After all, the Prime Minister himself here said very clearly a few days ago that the West doesn't need our factories, our facilities, that the West just needs our market. That's exactly the essence and essence of our warning. In particular, what is actually going on under this law: the state sells, foreigners buy, workers stay out of work, and the social programme and the material security of workers has nothing. Foreigners are reportedly buying, and indeed under very favourable conditions, they only take over what makes a huge profit, a huge profit, and what should not have been sold in the end. Everything else will be closed, and already under the rules laid down in the field of labour relations, employment, social security, conditions have been created for the state to avoid any more serious social programme or usual obligations to the army of people who will be out of work. Requalifications, prequalifications are not the right alternative and the right solution, especially for people who have twenty and more years of training. All stories of alleged investment and foreign investment, as discussed by Minister Vlahovic, are stories for small children and aim only to put our public to sleep and leave some hope. There is no such thing as anywhere in any country, or state in transition, in our environment. Investments can eventually only be to the extent that it will return to its investor multiple times. Serbia and its citizens will be left with nothing. In addition, the bill does not make a commitment of a future buyer to workers and the state in relation to the profits achieved. All allegedly successful models of privatization carried out in the countries of Eastern Europe, and especially in Estonia and Hungary, they do not have a particular foothold. There was talk of Hungary. Hungary was not happy with its privatisation model either. The factories have been sold. Closed behind that. The average salary in Hungary is 400 marks. Ambassador Pal Shandor told me it's not 400, but 300, and basic services, such as electricity, rents, utility services, are somewhere near that height. So far from El Dorado and that better life, and you were talking about Hungary being a good example. All these countries in our environment today not only have no more national production and economy, but have completely left their markets to green multinational companies. What it looks like in practice -- factories are shut down, shops full of foreign goods, American, Italian, German, which is already the case. Everyone's gonna be looking at those nice windows, but there's gonna be a few people who have money to buy those products. It's the fate of the countries in our environment. That's our destiny, too. That's for sure, that's right. Why would our fate be better than the fate of Bulgarians, Hungarians, Romanians and many others? That's why we say that the previous law, which DOS suspended, abolished, was fairer and better. When the law was passed, there was indeed a public debate in trade unions, with workers in several businesses, across Serbia, and a number of proposals from these trade unions and those workers were just incorporated into the previous law. The law you suspended. This bill, the current one, abolishes the number of rights that were secured by the previous law. I'll just name a few. The rights of companies to issue free shares up to 60% of the company's capital are abolished, the right to issue free shares before the sale of 70% of the company's capital, the discounts in the purchase of shares are lifted, the right of the Republic Pension Fund to 10% of all company shares is abolished, and there are unclear solutions regarding the authority of the Privatisation Agency, as everything is passed on to specific regulations. Models of sale through tender and auctions shall be left to the sublegal act. It is unclearly arranged and sells shares through the financial stock exchange per article. 59rd and 73rd. The fact is that the previous government has preserved businesses under the most difficult conditions, while at the same time it has been invested in development, regardless of difficult times. Workers often gave up their profits. That's the example of Bor, where about $150 million was invested in research processes, which means development. Companies must not lose their entrepreneurial function, but by this law they will certainly lose that function. It is clear that this law is unconstitutional and that it is contrary to Articles 64, 55, 57. The Constitution of Serbia and Article 74 The Constitution of Yugoslavia. With this law, those who have actually been guilty of the collapse of our businesses and businesses in general, those who have kept us under sanctions for 10 years and eventually bombed us, killed civilians, destroyed factories, finally got a chance to master not only at political levels, because they've already done so under DOS leadership, but will also materially master us, in the possession of our economy, which will be fatal to all of us and lead us into an extremely unfavourable position. That is why we believe that this bill is contrary to the basic state interests and is harmful to the vast majority of Serbian citizens. What I want to tell you in the end, to the representatives of the ruling parties, is that their changes are sudden, painful, large and examples of multiple power purchases. Today, pensioners can only dream and wait in vain for cheap weekends of electricity, because it's gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10098	Mr. Bushettic, next time you're moving away from the subject. Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10099	I only have one more sentence and one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10100	It has nothing to do with time. You need to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10101	The housewives wait in vain for cheap electricity from two to five, but it's gone. It is becoming expensive and that is why Serbian citizens are increasingly saying -- if this is the road to Europe, with these prices and with these charges, we would rather stay in the Balkans.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10102	I give my word to the Minister of Privatisation, Mr. Alexander Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10103	We've saved our capacities, that's the story we've been listening to for the last ten years. That could be true, assuming that by that means keeping capacity from natural disasters, don't give God an earthquake, or anything like that. So we kept buildings and old equipment. But if my story wasn't global, let me say now-- Yugoslavia's social product is 45% of the product that was in 1989. Anyway, let's get it down to the local level. Since, given the circumstances, the MP comes from Rekovec, I know a very good situation in the economy in Rekovac. Branko Krsmanovic doesn't work, ten years ago, a successful firm, the Jagodina Cable Factory plant, does not work, ten years ago, a successful firm. "Slovin", the liquor cellar, sometimes part of "Slovenia's Wines" doesn't work, or it works very badly, "Blagotine" in Belusic doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work for the flag plant, it also has huge losses. Well, those are the capacities we've preserved. Why don't they work -- because of the successful economic and state policy, which has been "leaded" in these areas for the last 15 to twenty years. So when we say -- the capacity has been preserved, then I could agree by that, we mean a list of outdated equipment and brick walls that stand, as an inheritance of investments from the 1970s, the 1980s. But, gentlemen, this has no market value, because it produces loss, it is the loss that speaks of the value of capital. What's needed is investment. Once again, would a division of shares, along with some balanced evaluation of the value that a state body would verify, satisfy the needs of workers and would that be a successful social policy? Well, of course not. We'd share shares that aren't worth it, we'd share 60% of the capital that doesn't exist. The story of the situation in Hungary is not true, it's simply not true. Hungary today has 17 times more exports than Yugoslavia has, measured at over $28 billion. Let me remind you, Yugoslavia's exports were only about $1.7 billion last year. Hungary today has a 10% higher gross production than it had before the start of the transition, and we today have a 40% gross national product than we had in 1989. Hungary today has an unemployment rate of 8.3%, and we have an official 26.7. When we attach 700,000 just seemingly, formally employed, our unemployment rate goes over 50%. And let me remind you, in the whole story of 1989, we entered with 13% of the unemployment rate. Today we are talking about how this law abolishes the right to fund the creation of jobs from the sale of shares from the action fund. Well, how much of that stock was sold? You want me to tell you the information-- none. How many dinars have gone to development sites - zero. The stock fund didn't even exist. So it was this pillar that was supposed to give birth to new jobs. Hungary has a constant inflow of direct investments of $2 billion a year. In 1995, the amount of inflows from investments was 4.5 billion, and in 1996 it was about three billion dollars. Well, is that unsuccessful? Are these indicators of failure or success? And that's why we say -- this is the only way to collect investments, to restore the economy, which in the past 15 years, because of a brilliant economic policy "extremely good" led and brought into a state where it annually produces losses at 200 billion dinars. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10104	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10105	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, indeed, I was still expecting Mr. Minister to say that the previous government is guilty of another accident in the Kolubar and the Machuvanian district, the catastrophic floods that have hit them these days, not saying what the government has done and what to provide for at least some decent conditions for the life of the endangered population. The privatisation law package, which includes the privatisation law, the privatisation agency's law and the action fund law, have been making up truly the cruel laws and are the finals of the government's intentions, which we have pointed to since the very beginning of its formation. During the previous government, you were most concerned with the "grey economy", and now you have reached the most significant economic resources of this country. The opening presentation of Mr. Vlahovic, short can be estimated - but, he told us, he told us everything, he didn't say just one thing - where are the money and where will the money from privatisation: into the Republic budget or go to another side? Ten points, ten questions, ten answers. In the eighth answer, to the privatisation issue, the minister replied that the money would not go to the Republic's budget. Then where will the money go, no one at this time says. Signs are written for 15%, and the rest is not written anywhere, and they are also said when adopting budgets on intentions and using funds from privatisation. And indeed, the minister said what was not written in the law, and gave no one, and to this people, no guarantees, and I will ask ten guarantees, as well as ten questions, and ten answers, to prove to the people that this is the best. The first guarantee - when the minister says - privatisation, he means investment. Is it just a bomb steam, as well as the donations you promised this people, and they're nowhere to be found? The majority of the privatisation process and conditions are regulated by the government of the Republic of Serbia, again by regulations, and implemented by the agency, from initiation of the procedure to control, and the highest management body of the agency is the board of directors, which numbers five members, which is once again appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and everything is under strict control of the government. Due to the minimal burden on the Republic's budget, the agency will finance itself from domestic and foreign sponsors, donations, which will certainly prejudge some solutions and open malfeasances and abuses. Our people said -- honey squeeze, and fingers don't lick, it doesn't go together at all. That the consensus has been reached with all relevant factors, I don't think it is, even in DOS polytburo, which shows an extremely large number of amendments. The fifth guarantee - that sales entities will not only become mere sales facilities, or fail. The sixth-social security of current employees, who will be jobless, capital is ruthless, we all know that, with previously cut employee rights, to their full realization, it was better to get a sack of potatoes once, than now no potatoes from the bureau. Seven, implementing this painful and unjust concept to the end and guarantees to this people. Gentlemen, you've had your eye on 70 significant subjects, and what about the other 7,000, how much do you mention? Eight, that the capital market will determine that 30% of free share capital will not be worth more or even more than 60% of the free shares that employees should receive under the previous law on their own transformation. The ninth, that strategic partners were just waiting for you and privatisation in Serbia, to invest capital in the conditions of the greatest political uncertainty, as well as the daily retroactive adoption of the law. The tenth, if the privatisation revenues don't finance the budget, it's in your answer to these 10 questions, then the explanation of the budget that we've been presented -- that the budget deficit will be covered by the privatisation funds, doesn't stand. In fact, the deficit in the budget will not be covered, and we know that the government is deploying funds from privatisation, it seems to me that the amount of 10 - 11 billion under the Business Transformation Act, according to the Social Programme Act, according to the Business Participation Act, etc. Anyway, I know the government is deploying 11 or 12 billion dinars according to its findings. It is certain that they will not deploy those from whom these funds were taken during privatisation, or sale. In the end, who gives one of the greatest guarantees at this time that after all these 10 points that are truly priority, as well as the guarantee that all the players of this privatisation will remain in this country to wait for the ultimate effects and finals? I can't help but undermining the Prime Minister's sentence, that we offer the world market expectations and that's why they're going to invest. Why, at least in part, do you not pass on to this people how employees live in other countries where privatisation and the transition process have been carried out? Gentlemen, why don't you offer a new law on labour relations before these privatisation projects, so the employees are fully aware of what awaits them as hired workers? You propose a new European working time and you throw your bones at the unions to bite and not discuss European earnings, and at this point in the country, labour is the cheapest. They know that in the West, and so do we here. Something self-critic - may be guilty and the previous rule is only for two points: because of the failure to implement the previous law on its own transformation within the deadlines and in the manner prescribed and the fact that the entities had long drawn up the decision-making process; which allowed individual agencies to through the assessment of capital, and you, ministers, were in one of these agencies, set up a niche device for those most significant and most profitable companies. Why Pivara in Valjev, not Valjevski Gradac, who manufactures screw goods? I guess the people can't drink and use them. Why cementers, not farmers' cooperatives or agricultural combinations? Maybe it's just an apparent delusion of mine, because you don't respect anything. Perhaps we would have abolished the law of our own transformation long ago, and all the transformations we've done would have been annulled and it wouldn't have been a sacred letter for you, as it was written again in those 10 points of yours. Since you, ministers, have made an assessment of the value of capital under the Law on your own transformation, you have prescribed in Article 75 of the Law that a new assessment is not carried out for entities which have been issued assessment solutions, as well as those who have completed the evaluations and delivered the evaluations to the Directorate, which the Ministry of Privatisation finds to be in accordance with the law. Kadiya's suing you, cadiya's judging you. Also, Mr. Minister, it's a lot, because you as a minister can't undo what you've done through an assessment that you've already admitted. Therefore, I think the best suggestion is that this congregation must still have some insight and information about the course of privatisation and everything that is going on, and the general public, because yet everyone has so far been involved in creating this wealth and participating. It is the same as when Minister Milovanovic, who has been sharing potatoes so far, does not now admit it, but sends workers to the bureau without protection. Gentlemen, I have not submitted a single amendment to these three laws, because I do not want to participate in the biggest sale of Serbian wealth and the work of our fathers and grandfathers. (President: Time. ) In the end, once again, let me ask - what about the capitalization, what about the hotel "Little", and what about those money that this government takes from the privatisation process? Do you at least partially return this economy from which it has taken or will you spend the funds for your purposes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10106	Right on line, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10107	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as representative of the DOS parliamentary group, I will exercise the right to replication. We're required a guarantee. Everyone has the right to seek something like that, but I think the guarantee was so natural that we owe it to her to answer. We're not going out of this country. We propose this law to be aware of the situation in which we bring it, aware of the circumstances under which it will be implemented and in the desire that no one from this country will leave without all those who have left it for the past 10 years. Make sure that's how it is. I'll give you another guarantee, which has a lot of personality with the position of a previous fellow MP. Today, municipal authorities from Valjev passed along, among other things, the Assembly and the parliamentary group I run, the material and analysis of the business of the Department for the Reconstruction of Destroyed Objects in Kolubarsko Okrug. That directorship was run by my predecessor. She left behind a debt of 400 million dinars. We guarantee that we will clear up every dinar and debt and all those debts that this society has deprived of its rights and which in such an ugly way are defined at least in the near future.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10108	The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric. The following has been reported by MP Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10109	The respected presidency, respected MPs, respected ministers, is an undeniable fundamental objective of privatisation that this law seeks to achieve, which is: increasing the efficiency of businesses, creating conditions for the realisation of private entrepreneurship, providing fresh capital from abroad, starting an investment cycle, including our economy in the world economy, reviving production and development, providing funds for pension and disability insurance funds, for promoting development, for paying off nationalised assets, for repaying debts, as well as others. However, there are many reasons to suspect that these goals will be easy to achieve. It is hard to expect that a large number of strategic partners will come forward who are willing to invest more significant funds in the development of businesses, the introduction of new technology, the security of the world market placements and others. It threatens to turn companies into state-owned enterprises because of the inability to obtain quality private owners. These changes will not provide or lead to a transformation of the economy. It will lead to the ethics of new authorities, unrecorded in the past. Excessive centralisation and the authority of the state to regulate economic flows will not provide for a dynamic and successful development. Practice has long since shown that the state as a supervisor has not passed the exam. The law does not achieve recapitalisation by foreign strategic partners, which would be necessary in terms of globalisation and the world economy. Also, this law does not stimulate foreign companies to invest together with foreign partners and our businesses. Attractive companies will be able to rapidly sell out, but where they find interested buyers for those where they have to invest significant funds to modernise production. How do you prevent intentional businesses from leading to bankruptcy, to make it easier to buy out for small money? Given the privatisation hand, will the great offer bring prices below real value? Is there going to be a huge sale of people's property into depravity? Whether we want to create a new economic and political elite in our society, with no real economic and social or legal basis. Will our strategic businesses also achieve a real price with foreign partners? They will call for an unfavourable geopolitical environment and seek to bring down the price. In the law of tender sales, there are no provisions that provide for the obligations of the new owner in respect of the continuation of the production process, product quality, the acquisition of new products, the processing of the market, the placement of products on the domestic and world market. There are no provisions binding on the new owner how many workers they will hire. It's important to know how many workers are going to lose their jobs, how much they're supposed to hire, how many young experts, how they're going to be educated, etc. It's normal for strangers to invest their money first where they earn the most and protect their interest. Also, we must protect our interests. It must be agreed that there will be an increase in production, that there will be no depletion of production and import of circuits, which will be self-mounted with us. So as not to suspend production and sales of finished products from the country where the new owners came from. So it doesn't turn out that a foreign parter has secured its own market and just created an illusion that something is being produced with us. Such cases are known in countries of transition. A stranger must not be allowed to buy a factory and mass fire workers, with some compensation for a shorter period, to ease protests and avoid mass social charges. The rules must be known in advance. In the bill, I think it's Article 38, only when it comes to auctions, sales, it's said, I quote, "The public call can contain an obligation to invest funds in a privatisation entity, to address employees' issues, to ensure the continuity of business and to protect the environment." In the case of tender sales, such a provision is not in place, although auction sales are not intended as binding, only as the possibility of this being sought. Let's not let the country turn into a special multinational company and lose economic base on political independence. The government has taken over too many powers and powers to decide in the privatisation process and the majority sale of capital. It is normal to expect that a large number of short-term companies will be contacted by an interested cash partner. Many companies will remain unsold. After that, negotiations on direct sales follow, and this already creates serious conditions for corruption. It's becoming unclear why the law stipulates that 70% of the company's capital is being sold. The majority share and the control package is provided with 51% of the capital. A lot of uncertainty lays down that the privatisation process, in addition to the privatisation entities or enterprises, can be initiated by the agency or the Ministry of Privatisation. There are no conditions when they can do so if only the company has not launched the initiative. It is not defined in the law when the sale of capital is made in the context of a public tender and the method of public auctioning. It would be logical for the company to decide on its own, not the agency or at least that provisions have been developed when the Agency decides. The tender commission is practically without more serious authority, as it was said to approve the result of a public tender, but only on a proposal from the agency. So it's the fact agency that decides who's going to tell who to close the deal with. It is difficult to justify the participation of workers in the privatisation of their factories from 60% to only 10% to 30%. I find it illogical to put pressure on workers, to sell the company as soon as possible. Otherwise, if they don't do it within 18 months, their participation decreases from 30% to 10%. The same applies to the reduction in the value of the acquisition of shares without compensation. That way, it puts pressure on companies to sell as soon as possible. For the sales carried out within 18 months, the employee receives a free-access duty rate of 400 marks each year, and after that, the value is reduced to 150 marks. The offer to sell a large number of companies will, in a short time, befall their price. It's going to be a company sale, really for small money. Limiting the rights of employees in obtaining free shares at 35 years of employment is unwarranted. Isn't it logical and just that a worker has the right to work every year? That limit should be raised to 40 years. It is unfair, but I also think it is an unsustainable proposal that the right to free action does not have citizens who have partially achieved this right as employees of privatised enterprises. They need to be guaranteed the right to the difference, i.e. from a partial right to a full amount according to the years of employment achieved. The purpose of using the funds obtained from privatisation, and I mean these privatisation revenues, is very undefined, except 10% for the PIO Fund and 5% for the payment of persons whose property is nationalised. Everything else leaves to the government, so whether that money goes to cover budget deficits or something. I think the law should regulate that at least 50% of these funds go to the Development Fund. To encourage economic development, which is a fully dedicated security of funds and the placement of the country's long-term development. Compared to this law, the social programme was to be adopted, so that a large number of workers who would be jobless would be taken care of. The fate of those workers who will lose their jobs and their social standing should not be ignored. It should have been predetermined, not delayed, and created uncertainty and justifiable social dissatisfaction. Given that the privatisation law is one of the fundamental economic laws, I expect that after this debate and debate in particular, with a significant contribution from the SPS MPs, serious revisions and the same will be accepted in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10110	The word has the People's MP Mrs. Gorica Mojovic, and the next MP is Mr. Slobodan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10111	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that the Privatisation Law is comprehensive and that it applies to all activities, I have the impression that a little bit of this pay phone and Serbia are spreading fear of total privatisation. I'm going to talk about an area where such total privatisations won't be, but where in fact this law will make us more precise and clearer define our national and state interest, and when it comes to the area of culture. In Article 3. The proposal for a privatisation law reads: "The subject of privatisation is social or state capital (hereinafter referred to as capital), in companies and other legal entities, (hereinafter: privatisation entities), if special regulations are not different". In the light of this law on page 4, it reads: "Extremely, if special regulations are provided for, certain entities cannot be privatised under the provisions of this law". In the area of culture, there is a law, a bit of a rogue name, and it is called the Law on the realisation of special social interest in the area of culture. It is a little older, the latest innovations co-operated in 1992, and the law lists institutions, institutions, organisations of interest for municipalities, cities and the Republic of Serbia. Under the law, very few organisations and institutions in the area of culture could be privatised. That doesn't mean it's supposed to be like that. It is clear that this law on culture will have to endure changes and, of course, the naked eye is already visible that the subject of privatisation will not be the historical archives, the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, a number of museums, and, of course, theaters of national importance. A number of cultural institutions can and must be subject to privatisation, but of course, in conditions that do not change their activity, i.e. remain dedicated to culture. What can go right away into privatisation, which is why this bill will also make us enter this process, is exactly what it is. social enterprises, because in those periods of different property transformations, a number of cultural organisations are registered as a social enterprise. To remind you, the most common thing is about those famous homes of culture, so it happened that 10-15 workers, who found themselves employed in these homes of culture, cultural centres or some similar cultural organisations, have several thousand squares of business space, have facilities and mostly these facilities are leased, and in this lease they invest very little, in cultural projects, mostly share salaries or already what they do. I think it's these very days that the financial police are in some similar, in some of these social enterprises, I think they've determined where these funds are being spent. The privatisation process is certainly necessary for the part of the organization that is currently dealing with what is called the culture industry, which is primarily film, music and publishing houses. So those who deal with this type of production and the team before, which is exactly what we have already formed private companies in this area, much more powerful, much more efficient, and for culture much more significant than existing state or social firms. These social and state-owned companies, and we're not having a hard time reminding ourselves, at least some, for example, a publishing or screening house in the field of film or a production house, the government of state or social, so, musically, so that we can understand that, for example, I'm not a tradition or names person, and I'm a rich man and I don't have any more. Look at what we look like. Every movie that's worth anything is private, everyone who's social, he's in a catastrophic state. Let's just look at the publishing houses. The City Hall has just completed a competition for the purchase of books for city libraries. I can tell you that 90% of the headlines that were bought for city libraries came from private publishing houses, because our government and social publishing houses had nothing to offer to buy. Thanks to these very private publishing and film houses, there was one part of the country's cultural offer. They often don't even have a roof over their heads, but they have a good organization, efficient management and print, most importantly, good books. Of course, the state, if it has any interest, can continue to restore, provide translations and printing of what may not have some value on the market, but for culture, creation and the spiritual integrity of a country and how it has value. In the process of privatization in culture, I also think it must be taken care not to create new monopolies. For this we have the best example in the film industry, which is what these foreign companies have forced us to do. Foreign bad producers signed with several very bad distribution houses in Serbia contracts, so no one went to sign a contract with only one distribution house, precisely to ensure healthy competition and quality in the film industry. I think that when it comes to order, and that seems to me, something that will first come to order in culture, that very cinema network, that we also have to make sure that we don't create monopolies in this area, but that we're just going to provide healthy competition, because that's the only thing that's going to provide for development. Of course, what I'm saying is that, apart from the need to get into the changes to this law on culture, I've been saying exactly why I've been asked a lot of questions these days -- and what about culture, is culture going to be privatized? I think that just in the process of preparing a new and in the amendments to the existing Culture Act, we need to determine what is really a national and state interest and, of course, pay for it. And to provide enough funding in the budget for such institutions and for such organisations and to eliminate and definitely remove that principle -- to everyone a little bit, to anyone enough. For what we find to be a state, a national interest, there must be money for that. The rest will have to go to the market, they will have to go to competition, of course, with always possible state subsidies for what is not exactly for the market and what is necessary for the culture and art of a country. After all, many examples are that the best way to go on the market is to do exactly what is aesthetically and creatively the most valuable. Whoever goes to the National Theatre doesn't go to see the Index National Theatre or the Audience. I don't mind, not against the Index Radio Theatre or the Audience, but he's always looking for Hamlet in the National Theatre for a ticket more. The most successful publishing houses don't publish dreamers or I don't know what those books are called, how to catch or get rid of a man, but Svetlana Velmar, Goran Petrovic, Umberta Eko, Andrej Mekin, Karl Jaspers. So, when it comes to culture, we are about to have a serious and huge debate on the amendment of the Law on Culture, which will define what it is that remains as a national good, i.e. institutions outside the privatisation range. The existing law is comprehensive enough that neither the cultural employees nor the cultural public have reason to fear privatisation. I must say, for some of the institutions and organizations mentioned here, privatisation will be the only salvation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10112	The word has a National MP Slobodan Pavlovic, and the next registered MP is Dusan Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10113	Mrs. Micic, chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we have today, and I am going to do this a little bit as the Duke of Seselj, on the agenda of the Privatisation Bill, Proposal for a Law on the Agency and a Bill on the Action Fund, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't really know if this session will be historic, how it is Mr. Djindjic when he spoke to us, argued, or others, but I share the opinion of those who said that it is extremely important and it is quite certain, and because of the laws we are talking about and because of the moment in which we are talking, and because of the expectations that follow the adoption and even more realisation of this law. The expectations, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, are really great and because of what I said, but also because in the present presentation, and especially in the context of the beginning of the session, very professionally and authoritatively, I publicly acknowledge that you have defended the proposal and you have announced that the first law that will be proposed by the new Government of the Republic of Serbia will be reform, that it will be European, that it will be transparent, that it will be expert, that it will ensure in its realization the overcoming of all the problems that we have so far, in different forms of property transformation, had. Let me tell you right now, and I would like to personally welcome or welcome such orientation, as I'm sure they would like to welcome the participants and those interested in privatization. However, there is no but, however, it is not the same, I would like to remind you, however, that at the Third Extraordinary Session of this Parliament, which we held on February 12th of this year, with the will of the majority, who has the right, which is not slow, we have put aside the existing law that has been in force since 1997, and which has been called the Law of Winning Transformation, which, until then, we have carried out the ownership transformation in the Republic of Serbia, according to our assessment, has been relatively successful. For the reasons that you, as minister, your ministry and parliamentary majority, advocated and claimed to be suspended, were that there were certain abuses, that there were favors, there were irregularities, there was a low estimate of the value of capital when many directors became majority owners, etc. Then, Mr. Vlahovicu, your ministry and representative of the government, announced a new law that would solve all these problems that were controversial and that all the problems of businesses, employees, pensioners and citizens would thus be overcome. However, I would like to remind you, if nothing is due to the continuity that you can acknowledge and do not have, that, with your request to suspend parts of the existing Law on Vascular and Custom Transformation, we also had a report from the then Ministry of Ownership and Custom Transformation of the Transient Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was also attended by representatives of the DOS, which gave certain assessments, which did not confirm what you claimed, but also said there were positive trends in this process. So today we have to consider and adopt such the most valid law on your part, by the government, by your ministry and by this majority, which at least two things can be said for. First, the law is completely different because it's called the privatisation law, and we had a law on their own and ownership transformation, and before that we had some other laws. I'm not going to swear and harden it, like some don't mention anyone, that he's better than the last one, that he's better than the previous ones, or that he's the best, and even less that he's extraterrestrial, and that he'll solve it all. That's not what you said either, so I'm not imputing it to you, but I'm saying that one distance to quality should be for all of us, you as a promoter, a government, and a parliament that should adopt it. Besides, I mean to tell everyone, I'm an SPS MP, that's familiar, and it's not controversial. Because we have principle differences, they're totally understandable and they don't have to make anyone nervous or get angry about it, but I also want to say that I don't advocate and defend at all the same cost the existing law, on the contrary. The Socialist Party programme implies and accepts various kinds of ownership, so of course and privately, and we are in attempts in which, I agree, we may not have succeeded in the whole, we started transforming these ideas. But don't be angry, what I'm saying right now is that the proposed law is fixed, even though I shouldn't be doing it. As one of my colleagues said, I should probably say... adopt the worst law possible, raise the hook and the disruptor, take you out of power, and let us come. No, that's not why I'm talking. You must understand - I have listened very carefully to Mr. Vlahovic, the list you have read, the ones who have helped you draft this law. Ten or 12 doctors, between them and my colleagues to you and many others, because we've been in the ownership transformation of public utility companies in Belgrade, where for four years I've been vice president and I've been in charge of this area, working together, I know their quality, I know their range and I don't question them from the point of view of authority. However, there is something that needs to be put into question, and that is what some of my colleagues used to talk about. You have to understand that as well-intentioned and constructive, not critical. The proposed law disagrees with the Constitution of the SRJ, which disagrees with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, cuts into many parts with the federal law on fartings, violates the federal Law on the change of ownership of social capital, in some things and some parts is unclear, vague and open, and, don't be angry, gives at least the beginning of excessive powers for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to act outside the law. What you're constantly slowing down, we say they're abolishing the acquired, so one of ours says inalienable rights, you make a cartoon out of it, but there's that too. That's why I don't think you have any personal reason to get upset and you've been out six times and you've challenged it. You understand that as a constructive proposal for us who might be different, so you have to endure it, of course, because it doesn't cost anything. So these disagreements and contradictions in some parts are formally legal and I agree with you, in some things they are very essential and can have consequences with which we as socialists disagree, and of course you can't argue with us. So it is the right of 4,500 companies interested in transformation. It's about six thousand employees, it's a question of how many are working or not working, how many are there. If not, let Mr. Veselinovic, president of the Chamber of Commerce, say I am not telling the truth. It's 1.3 million pensioners, and Mr. Djindjic himself said, and that's true, and I know that when it comes to the variant, I'm not an economist of your caliber, but I know when it comes to the possibility that one employee is supporting a pensioner, it's a catastrophic situation. In many countries, when ratio 1:3, everything is already on its feet. From that point of view, of course, we should do all these things. Let me say, something you suggested, you actually excluded the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from using its constitutional law and from controlling this extremely important process for the people and the state. (Chairman:Time. Thirty seconds. I appreciate your proposal to accept that the Finance Committee is in that position, if I understand correctly, and if I didn't, then let's explain ourselves and just say two more things. Since Mr. Vlahovic, in part my countryman, Mladenovan, is required as an MP from there, and he is the minister of business and transformation to ask what I can from the point of view of economic recovery and privatisation to expect Holding company Petar Drapsin, the largest factory in this country and in that SFRY that was, what can be expected "Keramika", the largest manufacturer of construction ceramics not in this Yugoslavia, but in the SFRY, what can Jugoazbest expect, what can "Minel" expect, what can "Progress", the largest manufacturer of construction machinery etc. They told me - Mr. Pavlovic, ask Minister Vlahovic, so let him answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10114	These aren't parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10115	It's only 30 more seconds. This law, like many other laws, is in principle an important law for the Serbian government's policy, which is undeniable. It's important as a work programme, it's important as a strategy, etc., but all of this you've suggested, if the goals are missing and what the economists told you in the Sava Centre, on which you're based the concept, strategic partners and investments, you say investment is privatisation, vice versa, can easily, Mr. Vlahovic, I don't call on evil spirits, trust me that I'm well-intentioned, that business happens to be disabled... (President: Don't ask Mr. Pavlovic, I give you a reminder under Article 101.) ... And depraved and sold out, and people on the street. Then you will assume the responsibility that the people have given you, so let what happens to you be yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10116	Thirteen minutes, Mr. Pavlovic. I give my word to the Minister for Economy and Privatisation, Mr Alexander Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10117	Since my memory, thank God, is quite well, for the continuity of what we had in February, when we stopped the part that referred to autonomous transformation, to repeat three basic reasons why we did it. So it wasn't because of malversions, not because of appropriate legal violations, not because of anything else, although it was, but because of three key reasons that one sentence can sum up into one, which is - the previous Law on its own transformation simply did not allow the start of economic reforms. So three reasons. I repeat, first -- capitalization, you get shareholders who don't have the money to invest in company development. Who in this country expects that when workers get free shares to go home, find hidden five, ten or fifteen thousand marks, bring them to the company and build an investment fund to finance the consolidation of the company's reconstruction. Of course, it's not real. Another reason - very corporate management. This means that it is not known who is the majority owner, who manages the company, who are the managing authorities, means the board of directors, whether politicians are sitting there or whether there are professional people who need to define the development strategy chosen by the owners. Therefore, the division of the roles between the managing authorities and the employees. And the third reason, very important, is -- with free share of shares, we've said multiple times, there are illusions that someone in their pocket has 14,000 marks. Mr. Pavlovic, several of the companies you mentioned entered the ownership transformation and the workers probably have 16 thousand paper marks, but they probably tried to sell their paper 16 thousand marks and received 10% of that value in return. It's realistic to expect these actions to be sold. It is realistic to expect because nominal paper cannot buy what is necessary for everyday needs. But it's for the money. Who's gonna buy those shares and where? Well, those who have money. And who's got the money today? Through the stock market or outside the stock market as the previous law has defined, so those who have used this previous period of 10-12 years great use to force their private goals and private interests. Well, we don't need such owners, we need strong strategic partners who have reputations, reputations, Knoj Honj, who simply come from the same industry and have their own investment capital. So that was three reasons why we stopped the autonomous transformation, and now that you see what the objective of this law is, that is, this concept of privatisation, then you can very easily find a link between February and what we're proposing today. What can workers in these companies expect? They can expect an investor without asking what the value of the capital is, because when I say privatisation, I really mean investment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10118	The word has a People's MP, Mr. Dusan Ilic [[Employer Pavlovic gives up the replica, although he has the right to do so.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10119	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the day of the adoption of this law, Serbia will forever part from the economy of the common sentence. On the day of the law, Serbia will stop being organised as a joint food restaurant. On the day this law is passed, the last remains of the Berlin Wall, which, unfortunately, remain here, will be cleaned up and we will take a big step towards Europe and the world. Because of this historical significance and the size of this law, it would be good if the whole congregation stood behind it. This is primarily because it is not only the law of one political group, but it is a law that reflects changes in our society, and it is the basis for the social reforms that are taking place in this country. I'm just going to take a little look at what my colleague Pavlovic said before me and about his suspicion that this really is a historical law. I think it's historic because this is the first law in this area that will succeed. And it will primarily succeed because it will not be carried out by socialist directors who wanted capitalism for themselves. The objectives of this law are clearly visible and I will only list some. [[Applause]] One, these are direct investments in companies that are the subject of privatisation that will bring us economic growth and development. Under two, it is the creation of a new economic structure that will be able to hold a competition in the European and world markets. Under three, no less important, is the correction of one great historical injustice committed by many of our fellow citizens, whose property was kidnapped and the future stolen. By passing this law, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there are also some questions that we need to clarify here for the public. The public needs to know this isn't about selling out social and natural wealth. The country's natural treasures will not be the subject of privatisation. Their use was regulated by other laws, primarily by the concession law. At the same time, privatisation will clearly show the social problems that pressure our society and our economy. In a country where the unemployment rate is over 27%, where over 600,000 people are only formally employed, in over-indebted enterprises, which don't work, in a country where there are no deposits in the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund and making it difficult for our fellow citizens to retire, we don't have much time to reconsider and we need to be aware that one of these laws has to be passed. The privatisation revenues will allow these problems to be partially resolved. But I must point out and point out that this law cannot be defined as social programs. The ministry responsible for this area is already working very hard on it. I would also like to refer to a major pre-election promise from the Democratic opposition in the election campaign, and this is about returning property to everyone she was kidnapped more than half a century ago. The relationship to the hijacked property is clear and shown by this law. Ladies and gentlemen, history teaches us that correcting old injustices can sometimes lead to new injustices, and therefore the law on denationalisation, which will be brought into this high home, will allow the return of property where it is physically possible, and this is possible in the case of countries, houses, apartments and business premises, and of course with previous budgets of lost profits and rents. Physical return of property, in the case of enterprises, seized under the laws of nationalisation, confiscation, secession, from the 40s, would slow the arrival of fresh money in our country. And that's why I think it's more efficient, and in a way more just, that the original owners are compensated to make up for that in the cash, and that from the Restitution Fund, in which 5% of the proceeds from the sale of each company, and not just the one nationalised, or kidnapped. Thisfond is strictly intended and I believe that in this way, how -- so will the damage done to many, although I regret to say that many of these have not been welcomed. The moment we vote this law, we'll think of them as well. At first, I said that the ministry had consulted the MPs and I am very pleased that the amendments of the Democratic Party of Serbia's MPs were considered with attention and respect. Ladies and gentlemen, most of the amendments, which the government has accepted, are coming from the ranks of the Democratic Party of Serbia's MPs. In the talks we had with the voters, we saw great fear, we were justified, that the newly-roasted rich, who had acquired their wealth in the previous period, in a folk accident, did not legalize and operate the property through the privatisation process. That is why MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia have submitted one amendment, which requires proof that a one-time income tax and extra property were paid. I hope this amendment comes upon your support. In the end, I would like to say who, in my opinion, could be opposed to this law - against this law can only be voted by socialist directors, who have lost their last hope of becoming capitalists. They, or many of them, were I not to sin against the soul, most likely in a private firm, they could not be the fathers or the porters. By privatizing, we will create a new market, the human market. The capable, the worthy and the successful will survive, and moreover, advance. The workers, on the other hand, will be out of a job. I think that at this point Serbia needs a positive selection, I think it is necessary for each Serbia to provide the best it has at this moment - itself. I believe that privatisation and this law make it possible and that is why I urge you to vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10120	The word has a National MP, Pavlovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10121	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, don't mind, for the first time I've used the right to a replica, and I probably wouldn't answer it, I even promised I wouldn't, but I didn't know what you were going to say. So, two things -- they're not voting for this bill, the former socialist directors, but the MPs, including you, and me, and all the people who chose. That's one thing. Secondly, the suspicion I allegedly expressed, when I made objections to the law, that he would not be realised because he would not be implemented by socialists -- directors, is not in it. That's not why I doubted. The law will be implemented by you DOS, and that, I admit, is not the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10122	The MP here still recognized himself, in part of the discussion of the socialist directors, not by name, but well. He has the word National MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10123	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought the restaurant on the break didn't work for us, that he wasn't serving food or drinking. I'm sure of the food, but according to my predecessor, it looks like the drinks were served after all. At the introduction, I'd like to say that there was an MP here looking for an apartment and asking him to be first on the list. If that MP gets an apartment, I'll be looking for the whole building. The MP in question can smell the property of his fellow MPs, who have apartments of 200-500 square meters, so they can give one 50 to their fellow MPs, not to be threatened. But to get back to the topic-- we from DOS chose to carry out political and economic reforms. No doubt this is reform law, and the people have chosen us. (Don't be nervous, so you went to Bosnia, ate three tuphas and declared you a duke, let me speak). We were chosen by the people to lay down two basic tracks - meaning to carry out economic and political reforms. One is the left rail, the other is the right rail, one is the political reform, and the other is the economic. This is the law, no doubt, in a package of economic reforms. When we implement economic reforms, we also need to implement political reforms, and we are on a good path here, so when we implement both reforms and establish stable rails, it doesn't matter who wins and drives the locomotive tomorrow. The Council is the duty of the DOS to implement political and economic reforms. So this law must pass. It's unfortunate that the former government didn't feel that this law should have been passed much earlier. In that case, the subject of privatisation would not only be the rest of the social property, which the former government did not rob and destroy, but would be far more property. They have in a Latino-American way impoverished citizens, stolen businesses, and today they rebel more than anyone else. I understand fellow lefties why they are rebelling - talking about an ordinary man. It's okay to talk about an ordinary man, and where has that common man been for ten years? This common man, a worker, as they say, is a right-wing law, so apparently this law does not involve a common man, a poor man. You've been robbing that common man for ten years. You took from the poor and gave to the rich. It's been your policy for ten years. The poor were getting poorer and richer and richer. And now some of the former authorities, leftists, give themselves the right to speak that this law did not contain a man. They are, for God's sake, socialists. Socialists are too noble a term for such a single family. Only in cartoons and their TV logs did people get rich, wearing cherry crates and beer crates. I know what hurts them -- they're basically in pain by the law that was passed before this law, the law on a one-time income tax and extra profit, because it makes it very difficult for many of their previous authorities to get to a cheap factory for the capital they've brought out of the country. So a one-time tax stopped them from laundering their money and getting their hands on the companies they robbed. Also, they're in pain of the disappearance of social property. This law may not be quite constitutional, but it is not proof that reforms must not be carried out, it is evidence that we should change the Constitution. Serbia cannot be a country that calls itself democratic if it is in force by the Constitution, which has been adopted by a single-party communist assembly. In this constitution is social property, and as a form it will disappear completely after the adoption of this law. The left-wing also hurts that this law will disappear and the foothold of their ideology. Social property is everyone's and nobody's, it was the best foothold for ideology in the past ten years, and for God's sake since 1945. With the disappearance of social property, Communism will disappear. No social property, no communists, and that's why they're screaming like a worm rock today. The law is good, but any law could have been better. The subject of privatisation is social and state property. It has been acquired by nationalisation, credit, employee work and work of the economy. I mean, and that's my mild criticism, that the lack of attention has been paid to the nationalized property, regardless of what the factories are and whatever the minister's promise that the special law will restore all assets that can be returned physically. However, it could be considered that those factories that can be returned physically, were returned in a natural way, not in a monetary sense. In my opinion, not enough attention is given to farmers. It is doubtless that part of the social property, especially the processing industry, was created by the work of farmers. The law may have a flaw in that it did not verify that farmers and agriculture had given up years of significant income in favour of the ruckus of social enterprises that are subject to privatisation. It seems so little that the peasants have turned out to be second-class citizens again. About employees, the law grew a little better, at least in my view, because they are employed and divided by an action of 15% and are covered by a 10% payment from the sale of capital to a pension-inhabited employee fund. The same attention could have been given to farmers. I repeat, this law is good. Maybe he could have been better, but he's certainly far better than most people expected. Also, I repeat that I have understanding for left-wing parties. Many have been affected by the Law on the Transformation of Social Property lately, as well as the Law on Single Tax on Extra Income and Extra Profit. I must also say that their dual behaviour, especially Banet Ivkovic's behaviour, which we are almost looking forward to on our breaks, is how Slobodan Milosevic will be delivered to The Hague and will remain his party, and here he is defending him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10124	The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word. After him, the Messenger of the people Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a law on privatisation is the first public recognition of the immoral current authority that the proposal for a law on privatisation, which is 20. Nine. In 2000, the Serbian Radical Party passed a good law. It's this law. A good law, DOS's expert copying school, also prescribed small cosmetic changes, of course, to the harm of workers and citizens, to the adoption of the National Assembly. It's this law. These two laws differ only by the fact that in your law, workers and citizens have been stripped of some of the rights that this law has given them. Everything else is the same. The cosmetics used in copying is a very unpleasant smell, because, gentlemen of the DOS, you gave the main accent to reduce the obligations of new owners, i.e. customers of companies. The social security of workers and citizens is reduced to a minimum, and in some cases it is not available at all. If we know that 60% of our company's workers will be surplus labour and add several hundred thousand people waiting for work, the question arises how will all these people survive for the next few years, how can they feed their families and educate their children during that time? If state and social enterprises were given the opportunity that you give potential customers, to release 60% of surplus labour, the value of social and state-owned enterprises, and thus the efficiency and value of the market, increased by 100%. By doing so, the state would receive far greater funds from the sale to address the accumulated social problems. The particular danger in this bill is that everything will be decided by a dozen people whose credibility in the work so far is under a great deal of question and justifiable suspicion by citizens, especially Serbian radicals. We all know that the current privatisation minister for up to a few months was co-owner of a private company whose activity was to make as much value as possible of the assets of the companies that were the subject of the sale, i.e. privatisation, and for which foreign customers were interested, which, in view of their partners and customers of our companies, acquired millions of profits. Now under DOS rule, this same man appears in the role of a key man of the protection of the interests of the state, workers and citizens of the mutilation and robbery of people's property. If it wasn't tragic, it would be ridiculous. That's the only thing anyone can believe in that is someone who's been eating rebellion. Perhaps this has something to do with last week's poisoning of MPs in the Assembly, of which 90% are DOS members. Here, and today, there has been another poisoning and closure of the congregation restaurant, as if this bill had an impact on the health status of the Members. Mr. Minister, who can believe that you gave up the huge incomes you've made working at your private equity appraisal company and took on such a responsible 400-DM salary job. The same applies to the Minister of Finance and Director of the Public Revenue Administration, which you imported without an excise stamp from France. For patriotic reasons, these gentlemen reportedly left their well-paid jobs in France, where they were paid tens of thousands of marks, and here they were killed by a 400-mark job. Big patriots. Whoever believes that, I don't think he's normal. Serbian citizens have given the mandate and responsibility for handling this country to MPs, that is, this parliament. This law and its implementation determines the fate of the state and the nation. It is therefore unacceptable that the Assembly does not have a control mechanism, and in some cases the right to veto, when in the process of privatising enterprises of general interest. We must not be naive at such a fateful and difficult moment. The fate of the state and its assets must not be entrusted to a few DOS people, whose patriotism instead of mushrooms is daily a zero-freezer, so I'm afraid they're not packing us all up in some cool window. The main objections to this bill are: no security for those who remain jobless, the right to obtain free shares must be given to all citizens of this country, from the only-born baby, to the oldest citizen, the right to acquire shares based on employment by heirs of deceased workers. There are still a lot of objections to certain inaccuracies of this law, which I will point to when we move to discussion in particular. That your intentions are not honorable is seen from the criminal provisions that follow this law. You have provided greater penalties for citizens when they illegally build a henhouse, than for privatisation participants to do millions of damage to the company, to the state and to the citizens. Your intentions are so "transparent" that the whole nation feels pain in the stomach. Ten months ago, when you took over, the citizens asked me when we'd get better. I've answered - under this DOS rule never. After a wave of gatherings in the first three months of your government, the citizens asked me -- when we'd be like before October 5th. I answered the same - never while DOS was in power. Now everybody's asking me out loud -- why they're so much worse off than October 5th. I answer them - because DOS is the worst. That your story does not drink water, or I will give you an example of what problems the most developed countries of the world face that you claim will solve all our problems because of your beauty and democracy, and these Western mentors themselves are burdened by them. In the most developed countries of the world, unemployment is ruled. In the United States, every third person is unemployed. In Germany, the number reached 4.7 million. In the last 10 years, the average unemployment rate has been 9.9% in the EU. The economy of many post-Communication Eastern and European countries you are calling for is closer to the model of the mafia economy than to the model of market economy. Maybe you don't even notice the difference, because most of you are always dealing with these kinds of jobs...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10126	I ask the People's MP to appreciate a little more politely the actions of others, it won't hurt anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10127	I thought that was for the members of the DOS who keep getting it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10128	And the speaker and the MPs of the DOS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10129	I haven't heard this before. Well, now you want to legalize all this and get used to us in your mafia way of thinking. Privatisation is therefore only a prerequisite for normal business, not a guarantee for the successful business of privatised enterprises. It takes knowledge, work, will and honesty, and you don't have it. Mr. Minister, I've been in private business since 1980. You were still wearing yellow diapers back then.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10130	I'm asking the People's Sender to take care of the treatment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10131	In other places and many naive listeners, not us here in the congregation. Squirming passes at a bus and train station, when people are in a hurry, I guess we're in no hurry here. You're really the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10132	National MP Milorad Mircic, advertising for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10133	I'm advertising a violation of Article 98. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. Madam Chairman, you respect attitude one and attitude two, but you have forgotten point three. No one can interfere and interrupt the speaker. What these mutologists get on a regular basis, you have to regulate it. It's easy for a man to throw out of the bench, come out for this pay phone. Here, as long as it's been since the term of office, none of you have shown up at the pay phone, and you're regularly throwing yourself away. Especially when the SRS MP Janjic comes out. You're a regular pitcher. You're so funny, you have to write to us as a manual, which is funny what you're saying. We can't handle it. Please, the chairman, to take care of them, you get them out of that place and how well you see them. Besides, they don't even need to be watched, they've been here for a long time, and they're also in different parties, but they've been in this assembly for a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10134	Warning of breach of Article 3. Rules of Procedure, I do not see it established, because I also asked MP Slobodan Janjic to take care of the language he speaks in the National Assembly, the claims he makes and also the MPs not to win, because that is the same violation of the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, tossing here is a favorite and irresistible, simply all together to ask you to refrain from comment, while the MP has his own presentation behind the National Assembly's pay phone. The word has been given by MP Borislav Pelevic, as a representative of the parliamentary group. Third call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10135	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, in my first presentation, I have stated that I welcome the idea of privatisation, given that it is one of the basic political principles of the Soviet Union and the market economy. But in order for this law to succeed and live, I believe that it should be removed in this debate and debate in particular four fundamental shortcomings of this law. The first is that it is evident and that DOS MPs point out, rather shyly, but still point out that there is a discrepancy of this bill with the Constitution of Serbia, the Constitution of the SRJ, the Company Act and the federal law on change of ownership. So I think that this should be harmonised, so that this law should be brought to life and that it could succeed in its application, because it is no doubt that it will be adopted in this parliament, given that some opposition parliamentary groups will vote for the adoption of this law. Another problem that should be addressed is the social problem that will arise by firing a large number of workers after the introduction of privatisation and application of this law, and since this law did not provide for mechanisms that would remove this problem that could arise, which could represent a social bomb when this law began to apply. We are also not familiar with a proposal that could solve this problem in a different way, which is unfortunately not foreseen by this law. The third is, and that is why we have proposed, and we suggest again, that at least 5% of the actions of social and state-owned enterprises go to solve the social problems of those who will be jobless, to go for their requalification, i.e. to qualify. The third problem, which we believe exists and will be an obstacle to the implementation of this law, is too much of the authority of the state, i.e. the government in the privatisation business. Indeed, the government here is too in charge, and I think she put a great deal of responsibility on herself. I believe that the government would have to exercise some authority, so that this law could succeed, and that we would not be able to return to one period of centralisation, which was fought by the current authorities, or by yesterday by the opposition of the previous government. So I believe that the government should be dissuaded during this period from these excessive responsibilities which it has taken for itself by a proposal of this law. The fourth problem is the problem of denationalisation, i.e. the return of property to the original owners, and what some of my colleagues have apostrophyd in their exhibitions. I think that's something special to pay attention to. Private property and property in the first Yugoslavia was protected by very strong, precise and legal solutions that were inherited, taken from the laws of the Kingdom of Serbia and the laws of Carevina of Austria. In the second Yugoslavia, the postwar one, after 1945, nationalisation, confiscation, as well as the expropriation of many buildings, many forests, many meadows, and many factories, apartments and all other things owned by private owners in the first Yugoslavia. It first became state property, and later it became social property. In the third Yugoslavia, therefore, the SRJ has begun the process of reintroducing private property and passing appropriate laws, but this must indeed precede the return of nationalised and confiscated assets for political and economic reasons, especially for moral reasons. We must not allow the adoption of this privatisation law to introduce other people's property of new private owners and thus repeat the violent seizure of private property. For the adoption of laws on the return of nationalised and confiscated assets of natural and legal persons, there is, in addition to moral, and national interest, especially when it comes to what has been taken away in Kosovo and Metohija, because more than 50% of Kosovo and Metohija territory in the first Yugoslavia, before World War II was in private property and that of the Serbian Orthodox Church, responsibilities and legislation of wealthy Serbs, colonists who were volunteers in the first World War in the Serbian Army, colonists who received state land, Serbs expelled from occupations and social organisations, such as the sports society "SOKO", the Kolo of Serbian sisters and other social organisations. For example, in the private property of the Serbian Orthodox Church was the following property: the Decani monastery - over 800 hectares, the Gracanica monastery - 600 hectares, the Pećka Patriarchi - over 400 hectares. There is no monastery in Kosovo and Metohija that has not had its ornaments, its meadows and its properties. I'm saying all of this because by law, property should be returned to the owners of the first Yugoslavia before the new privatisation law is passed. This is now the biggest, I think, and national interest, especially when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. The law on the abolition of all laws and regulations on nationalisation, which Mr. Minister spoke of and said would be brought into the near future, should include the following: land, oranica, building land, forests, construction buildings, residential, service, business, workshops and plantations of agricultural cooperatives, craft workshops and plants and industrial plants and factories. In order for this law to be applied and for this law to be fair to all those in the privatisation process and covered by it, it should really be the first to bring this law into line with the constitutions of Serbia and Yugoslavia, with federal laws and the Company Act. Social problems should be resolved through the introduction of 5% of actions that will be sold for social problems and qualifications, then the authorities give up acts of jurisdiction and transfer it to the commission, i.e. the competent committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the economy as well as to companies that will, I would say, not the subject of privatisation, but the subject of privatisation, and should also be adopted before that. I propose that the proposed and respected Minister Vlahovic return this law to completion and that this law may succeed, I think he needs to be completed and complemented. I know this appeal is in vain, but it was my duty as a MP to propose this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10136	The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10137	I would like to thank the MP for his remarks in principle on the privatisation law and the two other laws which are subject to the principle debate. However, I would like to mention once again that the proposed law on privatisation is not contrary to the mentioned members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Constitution of the SRJ. The proposed members of the Constitution, both of them, shall be guaranteed the business independence of the company, the equality of the market and the non-discrimination of the other form of property. Once again, I urge all MPs in the Constitution, in Article 59, to find a provision that speaks of the transformation of social property into private property, and I also call on all MPs to look at the Company Act and to realize that there is a discriminatory provision there in relation to social property, which is the inability of the creation of a new social enterprise. Therefore, when it is said - social property and other forms of property are guaranteed, business independence, equality of entities of practice, but that does not mean a barrier to the privatisation process, and therefore this proposed law does not conflict with the offered, or those members of one and the other constitution. Also, this law on privatisation is a back specialis compared to the Company Act. Once again, in all such cases, the legal rule of back specialis derogat back generalis can be applied both in relation to the Company Act and the Federal Law on the Change of Social Property, given that the Constitution has transferred the problem of privatisation, i.e. the transformation of social property to a republican level. I claim that the law does not conflict with those provisions of the Constitution, i.e. with the law mentioned above. As for social programmes, I must say once again that when accessing one of these privatisation projects, and once again, not to mention, privatisation will not cause extra employees, it already exists. Through privatisation, this surplus will be painted, and prior to the start of privatisation under this concept it is possible to bring general social policy, which we in the Serbian government, among other things, have defined. When we talk about social assistance, we think about helping all families that live below the existential minimum, but it's also impossible to define and quantify the social programme in advance. The social programme is for each individual company. Therefore, when each individual company is subject to privatisation, i.e. its capital, at that time we will know what is the right adequate size of the company and in accordance with the defined measures of social policy, as I said earlier, a defined adequate social programme will be applied for each individual case which will be strongly supported by the means, revenues from privatisation that are not listed in this law because these purposes are defined in the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expension, which you MPs adopted at the end of March in this place. Therefore, only they, i.e. only those spending on privatisation not previously covered by the Budget Law, are defined for purposes. The budget law defines the purpose of supporting social programmes and therefore does not require a percentage of the revenue that will go to support social programmes. I think most of these revenues are just going to be used for social programs, but notice, it's impossible to prequantify how much social programs will cost, because it's quantified for each individual case. As far as restitution is concerned, we do not question the restitution for any time, we say in this place - companies that have changed their physical form, which do not look like a company from 1944 and 1945 when they were nationalized, or in one word taken away by various regulations, these companies and these companies are impossible to return to physical form and therefore we have to define monetary compensation. The monetary compensation is not only a promise, since the Budget Law is not defined for these purposes, we define 5% of the privatisation revenue from each company that will enter the privatisation process. So we're talking about restitution here, but through cash compensation, because physical compensation is not possible. Everywhere where physical compensation is possible, when it comes to land, apartments, houses, when it comes to places that can be physically recovered, the problem will be defined by the law on denationalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10138	The word has a People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, followed by MP Srdja Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia has proved that writing a law on privatisation is not a difficult job. The public was prepared to accept it, and as a rapper, the bad laws so far, the promises, as well as the good bill that made up the SRS. Perhaps this is the only DOS law that is not exposed to the full bursting fire of Serbian radicals, a mutant of our bill, but that does not mean that it is excellent and that we have confidence in the government that will implement it. That's what separates us from the majority in this assembly, whose one MP said this morning that you are not prepared to compromise with former regime representatives in implementing the reform. You're making compromises with NATO, with Shiptar terrorists, The Hague tribunal, with your own safety, with everyone but your people. The basic mark of this law is that the buyer is raised to the divine level and that message is sent to him by almost every provision. It's because of him you don't even organize production, so it's lower than during aggression, although I'm sure you're not capable of better. Because of him, you invent additional burdens on the economy and as a highlight of the tax on extra profits and the property of social enterprises, which only Simpo, one of you will find out, pays 7 million marks. One who doesn't have to pay is reduced to the value the buyer should pay. The minister also transferred his relationship with the person paid to do the job to the state. The real proposals are ino buyers, and the bill opens a job for consulting houses, expert teams and agencies, commissions whose services are paid in real terms under the bill. To cover it up, the minister interferes with the untrue and eroded my parliamentary opinion on his expertise. I have to admit I'm not competent, but the minister leaves the impression of a man who knows this job, and that's why it's dangerous. The minister says his actions in the Deloja shower have been withdrawn since he was minister. Stocks are property. Who pulled them away from the ministers and where are they now? Are they at your aunt's or your sister-in-law's? Aleksandar Vlahovic is one of the co-owners of the US auditory and consulting company "Diloti shower" an economic institute worker, I think one of the co-owners. He came to the Serbian market "Diloiti shower" in 1991, through a joint investment with the Economic Institution. The first director was Slobodan Prohaska, the already forgotten first vice-president of the Socialist government of Serbia, and today a businessman in Cyprus. The co-operation lasted until 1996, when the Economic Institute withdrew its founding role. Why did the Economic Institute withdraw its ownership rights? Whether or not they have been transferred to the Institute's workers, or whether they are so-called Wild privatisation? The Deloiti shower continued to work on its own, only the two then directors of the Economic Institute, Aleksandar Vlahovic and Danko Djunic, then the vice-president of the Socialist Federal Government became co-owners of the "Diloti shower". The American company has taken over many of the activities of the Economic Institute. In public, it became known through the revision of Dafiment Bank, privatisation of Progress. Someone from DOS said the other day it was one of the biggest thefts of social property committed in the privatisation process through the privatisation of "Politicals", meaning through all suspicious jobs. Meanwhile, the 1991 Economic Institute was evaluated on three million marks, and after the break-up of business co-operation was estimated at 36,000 marks and ransomed primarily from Vlahovic and Djindjic as majority owners. In addition, former advisers of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mirko Marjanovic, Jurij Bajec and Daniel Cvetićan appear as owners. Now I'm interested in who in this Serbia is working for and who is helping whom? This also leads me to suspect that the Ministerials have agreed to raise the price of privatisation consultation in North Korea and Vietnam as a successful consultant. Of course, you owe us a story about your actions at the Economic Institute. I doubt that threats, blackmails and delusions allow "Lafarja" to reach the Beocinska cement factory, without re-public competition, at the price it was in circulation in 1998, at a time when Serbia was under sanctions and under the previous regime. Today, the minister assures us that an unfavourable price for the Beocian cement factory was reached in 1998, perhaps because he was a consultant for Lafarja. I doubt a team that only in the case of the Beocinski cement factory recognises jobs concluded under Milosevic, although this deal was neither concluded nor signed. Didn't Djindjic warn foreign investors not to invest in Serbia because the new government will annul all deals concluded under Milosevic. I doubt a team that claims that Chirac himself asked Djindjic to finish this job, and Deklerk himself from Lafarza claims that Lafarz is not a French firm. Whose name is Lafarz, and did anyone from Serbia get any action from him? An example of Beikin cement factory, a relationship to the development of the factory, price, buyer and use of mineral raw materials completely compromises authors and legislators and gives birth to a reasonable doubt about the preservation of general interests and the creation of an efficient economic structure. On July 29th 1994, were you at the Democratic Party of Mr. Minister, Zoran Djindjic, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, glorifying a model of privatisation, said: "Our law on privatisation suggests that this property, which is unimpeached for privatisation, be divided into equal parts by all citizens of Serbia. For what? The main reason is that social property was the property of all Serbian citizens. It wasn't the property of some kind of circle of people. She wasn't state property. She wasn't a collective property. In its creation, everyone participated. You can't tell how much anyone participated, because it was ideally the property of all of us. Society as an ideal continent, as one ideal owner was the owner of that property. We're members of society. Why would someone sell us what was ours? On the basis of this legal principle, it is sold and said by market criteria, something that is ours is sold." So I warned you, don't be surprised at the socialists discussing this bill. They learned from Djindjic just a few years ago. I'm thinking about the reasons for the concept of restructuring and the interestingness of the provisions that regulate it. Trustees with majority government capital can convert their claims into the capital of that entity, but other second-rate trusts, social enterprises, for example. they may, in whole or in part, write off the principal of debt, interest and other claims. In the name of what would they do? Will the state force them to do something else or simply by prohibiting them from having to pay their due claims? One thing is certain, the ban on forced collection by creditors to entities that are being restructured is contrary to the Law on Liabilities, and the timely information on enterprises that will go into restructuring is worth gold and will be subject to profit. The government will later prescribe a procedure and way of restructuring the privatisation entity, later will prescribe a process and way of selling capital and property through a public tender method, a public auction. Everything stays for later and causes mistrust. It is only known that the Agency’s programmes and documentation relating to these procedures and methods will yet be unrequited for privatisation entities. Then why do we confuse them and lie to them when we tell them they're subjects? They're just the objects they're working on. Privatisation is an opportunity to repay our foreign savings to everyone, not just those whose bonds have come for payment. They've arrived for payment in cash, but the state is obliged to resupply them with property whenever it has property to sell. If there is no privatisation process now, it will never have it or otherwise, if it will not be delayed now, it will never be delayed, and the tender and public call will have certain content, except for the usual information on the name of the entity, place, address, date, starting price, amount and method of payment of the deposit, which is prescribed by the minister, they must also contain other conditions, the obligation to invest funds in the subject of privatisation, the solving of employees' problems, the obligation to maintain the same employment for a certain period, the provision of continuity of business and the protection of the environment. The transparent procedure shall overlook the obligation to establish criteria and priorities. We're not slaves. Serbia must not overestimate but not underestimate natural resources, labour, geographical position and market size. Local self-government was excluded from the privatisation process, although it could also help obtain certain revenues. All right, I'm not saying it's not true, it's 10% overlooked, but it was meant to give all the small businesses to local self-government at their disposal. In addition, there will be so many companies that the number of public and municipal enterprises at the level of local communities will be negligible. I think more co-operation with the companies being prepared or in the phase of negotiations with a potential partner should be envisaged. They should not be forced to deliver, within 7 days, at the request of the Agency, a prospectus of privatisation or the Agency will take over their responsibilities. This may bring down the value of the company or drive out a partner with whom (president: 11 minutes)... Would you be so kind as to speak for another 30 seconds but not to remind me?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10140	It's 11 minutes and 30 seconds now. I'm obliged to warn on time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10141	This law carries out its kind of nationalization, nationalization. Why, then, does the law provide for part of the funds achieved by privatising the remuneration of persons whose property is nationalised? What if someone adopts a law on a shift to provide that all the companies privatised under this law are returned in his opinion to the right owners - workers and executed the privatisation? Anything is possible in Serbia. You're throwing us radicals out of the assembly. You can't even put your gun in the O.R., but whether someone will have (the chairman: 12 minutes) trust in this country if every new government cancels and you retroactively bring all the laws before it, even though they were brought by the National Assembly. Just two more sentences. DOS has finally beaten the flag by bringing inextricable and incompetent people, who could chase rats through it, but have no idea what a factory is and how production is organised. Now you're going to decompose it, except we're not singing in Kragujevac. We would rather weep over the fate of the factory, which has allowed some of us even to be born.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10142	12 minutes and 40 seconds. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10143	Let's decompose the word "Dilloyt and Touch" that we talk about so much. "Delloyt and Touch" is one of the six largest consulting and audit firms in the world. There's a turnover of about $12 billion a year and its representations in 165 countries around the world. "Dilloyt and Touch" - Central Europe, whose partner I was, covers 17 Central European countries and was founded in 1971. In total today's "Dilloyt and Touch" - Central Europe has 137 partners and I will inform you that today in Yugoslavia, so without me, there are four partners in "Delloyt and Tuš". So, it's not Aca Vlahovic, it's not Danko Djunic only, but there are people on the hierarchical scale who are progressing from the usual consultant, so-called. Business analysts, and when they meet all the criteria, and I won't bother you today, they become partners and nothing weird. That's how all partner companies are organized. The partner company means in translation the partner of those people who work inside. And when I said, and I thank you for the need to explain, I pulled the action, right. I've had 108 shares in "Delloyt and Show" - Central Europe. In other words, when someone comes out of "Dilloyt and Tusa", since he's a partner company, he has to stop being the owner, or co-owner of the company, and in return he gets money for his actions. Therefore, it is not a stock company that is listed on the stock market, so the stock is brought home and is being dragged from it by the appropriate benefits. Once you're out, you're out with action. In return, you've been compensated, as is done in any other partner society. So much for that. So, I'm not a Deloyt and Touch member. I don't work there. I don't have any property, since in January, or early February, I was paid in full. I only work at the Department of Business and Privatisation. I don't have any other ownership interests, and I'm not saying one more thing -- I'm just interested in the state right now. When I was working at "Delloyt and Touch" I was just interested in "Delloyt and Touche" at the time. And once again, advice: if everyone took care of the responsibilities of the place he was in, everything would flourish in this country. Our economy would be great, and the whole country would be great. [[Applause]] So there's no conflict of interest. It is also true that I was in the Economic Institute before I entered the "Dilloyt and Touch" and that I own 2.1% of the economic institute shares of 85% of the privatized. Also, since January, there has been an ad on the ad board that I am ready to sell those shares because I also want to withdraw that minimum percentage, which was received under the 1991 bill by payment, as the law had predicted at that time. Therefore, I am not the majority owner of the Institute. It's not relatively or absolutely. I don't have any action in "Delloyt and Touch." I have no business relationship with the company "Dilloyt and Tush", nor with the Economic Institute and I work exclusively in the government of Serbia, the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation and for reasons many of you cannot understand. And that's -- that we want to make this project a success, because to the extent that we're successful with this project, to that end our price is going to jump behind it, and that's a perfectly legitimate reason, not to mention the reason it's called -- this is my country, I was born here, I want to live here, and I want my children to live in this country. I'm not a member of any political party. [[Applause]] Now, a few answers as to why the debt savings are only due. For free reason. These people have invested money and these people need money in return. When these people invested money in our banks, they did not take an interest in being investors in Yugoslavia, but rather in saving for black days, and that money needs to be fully returned to them just as they invested it. In other words, that means that part of the privatisation revenue must be directed towards the benefit of foreign savings, because if you remember that foreign savings has failed through the sandy economy. Why not the total value of the bond? Because we realize that our economy is overly demanding investment. Well, I guess we're not going to give someone who's invested a lot of money in our banks that have failed and someone who, despite the hundreds of thousands of stamps they have on the foreign exchange card, we're still giving them the opportunity to buy companies whose capital is symbolic or it doesn't exist because of the accumulated liabilities and in return we're giving them the opportunity to invest extra money that he doesn't have. Now, that was the reason why not the foreign exchange of bonds in full. The person who has the amount will also have the means to invest. But, let me tell you, we wouldn't want to have different debt traders tomorrow, that is, those debt buyers and bond buyers, so to speak. financial investors, appear and buy bonds for old foreign exchange savings with large discountes, and then, with such discounted bonds, they appear as buyers of our companies, because it would not be fair for foreign exchange owners, and that would not produce the company owners we want to have, because they are not financial investors but, above all, strategic investors. Because of that, and among other things, there is no conversion of debt into stakes, because the conversion of debt into deposits can simply be declared, but in return you will get the general forest, the general jungle of ownership relations, because don't forget - the internal debt is 847 billion. And only if we made a deposit conversion would the owners of our companies be banks. Companies would own each other and what we offer them. We say -- here you go, restructure your claim. But why? The commercial motive is because tomorrow you will have a company that will be able to repay at least 40% of your nominal debt. And that's it. It's called restructuring and the chance, above all, of trustees to withdraw their failed investment at least in a minority amount. DOS didn't touch the flag. As you know, the flag has been living on the back of the budget for eight years. DOS, or an expert group working on the flag, is first trying to make it from the flag, and it will succeed, make profitable entities, but we have to realize that the time of 200,000 cars has passed after us, that the Soviet market has passed, that there are no more great, phenomenal export arrangements, which were being made under-end of 1980. A year. Simply, the flag must reduce its size to be profitable and we will succeed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10144	He has the word Mr. Panajotovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10145	Mr. Nikolic said I might be Djindjic, so I wanted to answer what he was saying. It's hard to become Djindjic, I'm still very far from it, and many of us here. I am reporting for the replica, Madam Chairman, due to the fact that during the afternoon I quoted one part of Mr Djindjic's presentation, which refers to the Privatisation Law proposal, from the July 29th 1994 debate. Mr Nikolic did not directly mention the speech I had this morning, but he indirectly took advantage of the opportunity to read from the stenogram, which he had come to, the most important parts, which should in some ways disabling Mr Djindjic, as Prime Minister behind the bill. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to read some more parts in three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10146	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10147	Mr Djindjic next, he said, - speaking of the years that the Socialists spoke of since 1990-1994: "In those four years, this economic and economic continuity, we had the biggest economic discontinuity recorded in history. These four years, we had the original accumulation of capital, which was depraved, because it was happening under the grain, behind the back and in the middle of the night. Secondly, our proposal is in this (it is about the Law on Privatisation), which is the essence of the system law, to establish the status of property in our society. We suggest that an economic order is urgently defined in which Serbia wants to live. If it's supposed to be socialist capitalism, which has been created these four years, then say it. We propose, therefore, that the distinction of property be made, that it be seen by the origin of what is in that adoption, that then a political decision be made - what will be." Mr Nikolic was obviously not present in the hall or deliberately forgot, that Mr Djindjic said that in 1994 he was the proposed Privatisation Act, as he is, but that, for the past seven years, the economy has been ruined to the point that it was not possible to repeat the same concept of voucher privatisation, which the Democratic Party advocated in 1994. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10148	But this was a replica of your exposure (to MP Tomislav Nikolic). I was present when Mr. Minister said he didn't mention you at all, neither you nor the party, unless you identify with the flag, Mr. Nikolic. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Mr Panajotovic did not have the right to reply. We don't want to argue, you really didn't mention it. I don't allow it, based on Article 96(3), I don't allow replication rights. You may be looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but that doesn't give you the right to replication. Therefore, I will not allow you to use the right replicas. All you can do is break the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10149	Your Honor, ma'am, she's not giving birth to law enforcement. You allowed Mr. Panajotovic to replicate, even though he had no basis for replication at all. In that so-called The replica he directly mentioned me and you now do not give me the right to the replica, although I am directly mentioned, and Mr Panajotovic, just to explain something to you - so this could also be about Mr Vlahovic's discussion, to explain something to you. But why are you breaking the Rules of Procedure so harshly that you don't give the MP mentioned, whose exposure here is interpreted from the pay phone, the right to a replica? I know, you'll be remembered for those pearls of yours, but it's not working for you, so you'd better be remembered by the people as you were the Democrats here, as you stood up for some new principles. It'd be better. So now I ask you, are you giving me the right to replication?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10150	I'm sorry, Mr. Nikolic, I really don't have the right to give you the right to a replica. I listened to Mr. Vlahovic's statement, and you absolutely didn't mention it. I gave my word to Mr. Panajotovic, because I was absent when you lied and he explained to me why he was asking for the right to reply, and I estimated that he was misread, based on article 96, that you used his exposure, from the stenographic notes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10151	Oh, I'm totally the second part of Mr. Djindjic's presentation here, and I didn't interpret anyone, I didn't say anything about it. I don't know Mr. Panayotovic at all, I don't know a man. Will you give me the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10152	I don't want to, Mr. Nikolic. I'm sorry. You really don't have the right to a replica. The word has a folk MP, Mr Srda Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10153	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, a package of privatisation laws that we have today on the agenda of this assembly is the basis for the process of economic reform in Serbia, and because it is not quite obvious from discussion 37/4 of some MPs, although the minister is trying hard to explain it to them, the battle is being fought on four fronts. For all four fronts, this is a system package of laws. The first front on which economic reform is being led is tax reform, the second front on which the country's economic reform is being led is international co-operation, the third front is small and medium-sized enterprises and the fourth front is a battle for salvation, restructuring or the launch of large enterprises. And that's something that this package of laws regulates, and that's why we say - this package of laws is the backbone of economic reform in Serbia. The first thing is taxes. Tax reform, although made very fast, very high-quality, and completed, by switching to the gross profit system and the uniform tax rate, ended last week by adopting the Tax Act on Extra Profit, is only a framework. She won't function well without the trade capital. The terms and conditions for the capital of privatisation. So tax reform depends on this package of laws, or its success. International co-operation is the second pillar of reform or the second front on which reforms are being implemented. And here it is really imputed to DOS that international co-operation means relying on donations. From October to New Year, 400 million donations were made. In the first two quarters of 2001. 450 million more years. We have a donor conference, but it's just a support for reforms. Believe me, the adoption of this package of laws, which provides foreign investment, is more important in the long run for the entry of foreign capital in this country than all donations and the donor conference combined. It's something that's a national interest, and we'll be in a situation in three or four years, with a stable economy, to say whether or not we're going to help, but we need to stabilize the economy first. The third thing is small and medium-sized enterprises, which can pull wide layers of society forward, and which are in a social, not only economic aspect, very important because of the fact that we are thus returning to life the middle layer, which in this country has practically disappeared. Small and medium-sized enterprises will manage very well under the conditions of privatisation, as they have also managed very well in previous conditions of unfair competition. What's very important is that she will now have a better chance, because there will be no more burazeric economies in which there are small private privileged enterprises that are related to social enterprises that suck up capital. Ladies and gentlemen, by adopting this package of laws, we end up with a burazer economy. The fourth and most important key process and key front on which the reform depends is to launch and revive or restructure large enterprises. There was a dilemma here about keeping the capacity. I would not agree with Minister Vlahovic, that keeping the capacity does not mean anything. It doesn't mean profit, but it means cost for depreciation, that list of equipment whose value is slowly falling. Large businesses at the moment must create a crisis-exit programme with the government, a restructuring programme. It is companies that are very important, not only for the economy, but also for the social sector in Serbia, because in these companies it works or, better say, it is conveniently resting over half a million people. What is the current of this law and what should be said clearly, because there have been some dilemmas in the press comments, this is the end of social property in Serbia. This is what is the difference between this model and previous privatisation models, which in some ways kept allowing social property and private property to exist parallelly. In practice, this meant that the director of a social enterprise would make his or her own wife a private company and then pour into it capital from a social enterprise. Here was about Simpa, remember, in the debate about extra profit tax. We therefore included family members, divorced wives, etc. in the extra profit tax, because, unfortunately, under the hat of loans to social enterprises, money was poured into these favorite private companies, usually related to the director of the social enterprise. Today, we end the last liquid of real socialism, we form a social property, and we can say, after the adoption of this package of laws in Serbia, there is no more social property. So both tax reform and international investment and small and medium-sized enterprises, their step forward, and the extraction of large enterprises from the collapse they are now in, depends on this package of laws. We say this law is the backbone of economic reform in Serbia, a package of privatisation laws. That is why MPs of the Democratic Party will vote for this law. I would like them to do that, regardless of the party programmes, other parliamentary groups. The last thing I wanted to say, which apparently has nothing to do with the law of privatisation, is the problem of the environment. We must create a system that monitors foreign investments and prevents dirty technologies from entering our country. It's a very important thing even though it's not obvious. Unfortunately, our existing legislation is not entirely full of sublegal regulations, or there are gaps to assess the impact on the environment. The situation in Serbia, according to a report adopted by the Serbian government on June 5th, is not alarming, thank God, but this is rather due to the fact that our industry is not working, but the fact that our technologies are clean. We need to take advantage of that moment, that turn, when foreign investments go in, to accompany positive economic instruments of investment back into the environment. It is also important to assure Minister Vlahovic that ecology is a priority in the tender. I would like to commend the fact that the government has accepted an AP Vojvodina amendment concerning this issue. We here, for environmental reasons and for the protection of the environment in foreign investment, made one initiative for members of the Committee on Environmental Protection, from various parties this morning, and agreed that, according to members 60,41,71,25. The Rules of Procedure, given the circumstances of the Committee president's resignation, and the new one has not yet been elected, let us hold tomorrow in the session session session of the Committee, which would include Mr Vlahovic and the people of the Ministry of Health and Environmental Protection, to examine the regulations that we lack and to pay attention to these important options, on the one hand, and the dangers, on the other hand. So this law is the backbone of economic reform in Serbia and it doesn't matter how we vote. This is, I mean, the beginning of a new time for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10154	The word is by MP Vlatko Sekulović. The next is MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10155	In my opinion, this law has certain characteristics, two of which are basic. That this is another law of discontinuity compared to the previous regime that ended on October 5th. I think that this law, along with these already adopted economic reform laws concerning tax reforms, is beginning to slowly round up an economic system that will allow for the perspective of Serbian citizens and that will show that these changes, which took place on 5 October, are irreversible, in the sense that the return to what we once had, are no more. In that sense, I mean primarily that period of a dark era in which some other things were valued, not work, honesty and certain values, which form the basis of every civilised society that it intends to enable its citizens to live normal lives. Also, this law is the law of reality. If these solutions, provided for by this proposed law on privatisation, were proposed in a country such as Serbia in 1989 or 1990, I doubt it would be one of those MPs who would support such legal solutions. However, we must bear in mind that we are not Serbia from 1990. We are Serbia from 2001. Serbia that is poor. Only a few statistics that add up to what has already been said several times - in their own time, 1990, the average personal income in the former SFRY was about 800 marks in dinar equivalent. At one point, he fell to 25 - 30 marks to reach his maximum of 65 marks at the time of the former government. Now, during the new government period, even on this plan has been improved, so that the average personal income is almost tripled, but the fact is that our country is greatly underprivileged. Not to mention a gross national product that's been halved and other statistical indicators. But I think the consequence of all this is one terrible problem. And, if we can all define, from time to time, some national interest Serbia today has, in my opinion, the vital national interest of Serbia today is a solution to the unemployment problem. We can't go into the future with this unemployment rate. Open plus hidden unemployment is now moving in Serbia around 50%. Serbia with such an unemployment rate has no perspective. We can talk about other national interests, but if you don't give a young generation a job, if you don't allow it to have sources for its own existence, sources through which it will settle all its basic needs, you don't have a future for this country. So I think this law is one of the measures that is trying to revitalise our economy. Of course, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and other specific measures has been mentioned. But it is certain that the privatisation law is one of the measures in the whole package that should reduce our unemployment rate today. I don't think there's even going to be any significant increase in our employment. It's possible at some rate. But, above all, what statistics will register as an increase in unemployment, it will only be because the facades of so-called employment will be removed, i.e. those people who don't actually work, and formally have jobs in one company that doesn't do anything. So we're in a country where there's no trade capital, in a country that's completely underprivileged. The only way to start our businesses is to create a certain inflow of capital. There is a positive law because it is very open to investments that can be both domestic and foreign. However, it is clear to all of us that the capital of domestic origin is missing or in very limited quantities, and the accent is being thrown at what should be an inflow of foreign capital in the Serbian economy. It was also said that one of the objectives of this law was to eliminate social property, because of all those citizens living in one system, where social property had its own purpose, had its own purpose. I have to say that today we live in a different society, in which social property has completely lost its meaning or has become exactly the opposite, which may have once been its purpose, which is to ensure respect for the principle of justice. During the previous 10 years, it was a source of illegal wealth for individuals. I think we need to build a capitalist society. As a Social Democrats, I am vitally interested in building a single market economy, but a market economy that will be limited by social policy measures. I don't think we have any or no fear of building a capitalist society, where the interests of those layers of society that are weaker -- older, young, children, women, etc. will be protected. In any case, here is the issue of the unemployed first, and I think that in most cases the government has made it clear that one part of the funds will be used for the development of social programmes and other programmes that will try to resolve the issue of the unemployed, or those who will remain unemployed in this jobless process. As for certain individual issues, I would briefly stick to them, which is a question of restitution. The issue of restitution, as the colleague said, is also important for the sake of respect, i.e. for showing the government's will and for us as the country's ruling coalition that we will raise private property to the status of integrity. I think that's true. And we can't ignore each other's principles, which is very important to us at this point. The important thing is that this process is effective. The denationalisation process, which shows the experience of all Eastern European countries that have passed or started with the denationalisation process, is that it is one process that is very long and that has not even come to an end in any country. I think these proposed solutions find some compromise between the two requirements. Also, there is a question of local participation, especially in the whole privatisation process. I hope that in the debate that will follow, and in particular, we will come up with satisfactory solutions. I don't think we as DOS MPs should be afraid of this debate, because this is one of the times when we have to create as broad a consensus around this law as possible, so that it is effective in applying and to give the results that we all want. Therefore, we should not mind the attacks of the opposition MPs, and in the sense of provoking whether we will speak. I think each of us should make a contribution, so this law can come out as well as possible. The only thing I doubt is that the privatisation process of our businesses will end, as is often interpreted, over a period of four years. I think there's going to be a government in any case, that one number of companies will find their partners, but we will definitely have companies that will be state-owned after four years. However, the state of the company, as the legislator envisioned, is not in the sense of nationalisation, as it was in 1945. It's true it's about government. It's not a permanent condition. It's only one temporary condition, so then the element of private property participation should be increased. So what is the aim of the legislator, or legislator of this law, is not nationalisation, but is one transition between social property and private property, which is regulated in one transparent way. This transparency, in my opinion, is a very important element and may even support this in the proposals of individual colleagues, who consider it necessary to form a congregation body, which will exercise certain control and control over this privatisation process. But it must not go to the core of that principle of efficiency again. I would only end up with the next one, coming back for a moment at the beginning of my presentation, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we are in one historic moment for our country and for our people. I think we're in that situation where we can reverse one of those famous phrases and thesis that was launched in 1991 that dragged this country into disaster. Slobodan Milosevic said in time that if Serbs can't work, then they can fight. Now, this generation that runs this country should show that Serbs and how they can fight, and how they can create a better future for themselves and for generations to come, after them, and for all citizens living in this country, regardless of their national and religious background. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10156	The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and next reported is the MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10157	Ladies and gentlemen, this two-day debate has shown that we, as parties that are participating in this House, are very different from the very approach of the privatisation problem, but on the other hand it has shown a consensus, it has shown that we all agree here that social property has been overcome, that it is inefficient and as such it needs to be transformed into other forms of property. I'm not going to repeat what my predecessors in the SRS have already talked about the advantages or shortcomings of this proposal, but I'm going to list a few issues, a few suggestions that I would like to make here and suggest to the Proposer to consider them and, if possible, correct this proposal, to make it as high-quality as possible. Most speakers have already said that this law is crucial, that it is historic, etc. I agree that he is extremely important to this country at this point, perhaps the most significant of all the proposals that have come to the Assembly in the last few months. That is why we need to pay full attention and make a full contribution to making this law as high as possible. It means to remain as vague and undefined as possible. The law itself, i.e. The proposal has a lot of vague things, a lot of places that are ambiguous, that are not precisely defined. I'd like to ask the Proposer to correct those shortcomings until a final solution is reached. I will specifically start with the second chapter of preparation for privatisation in the first point of the privatisation process. The first position says the privatisation process is initiated by the initiative of the competent authority, a privatisation entity. So, only the company is launching the privatisation initiative. One of the following points states that the privatisation process can also be initiated by the agency's or the privatisation ministry's initiatives. It's not clearly defined here as entering the agency scene or whether there's some deadline within which the company has to take the initiative, so if it's not respected, then the agency goes with the initiative or the ministry. So it's not, I say, precisely defined. I suggest that this be defined more precisely, so that it is known, that the responsibilities and obligations of companies or agencies or ministries are not intertwined. In point 3, the restructuring in the privatisation process, paragraph 1, says, if the Agency assesses that the capital or assets of the privatisation entity cannot be sold through a public tender or public auction without prior restructuring, the privatisation entity is obliged to restructure in the privatisation process in accordance with this law. This is becoming vague again. First, on the basis of which the agency assesses which company will be privatised by a public tender method and which by public auction, which must go into restructuring. So again, it is not precisely defined and yet we do not know what criteria are used to refer the company to any of these three forms of privatisation, i.e. two forms or restructuring. It also stands here, in Article 20, the final view that the government of the Republic of Serbia is closer to regulations the procedure and way of restructuring of privatisation entities. So, the government will prescribe how companies will be restructured, the programme and the instructions will be given, and it also says in Article 33 and Article 40 that the Government is bringing, or proposes, a public auction programme for the public tender, since a very large number of enterprises are going into the restructuring process, the largest number of businesses because the situation is in the economy. It's a little unclear whether the government will succeed within four years, as far as this law is concerned, to carry out all these preparations, to bring all the programs and instructions for several thousand companies that have to go this way. So it should be considered whether the government can do it in this time period, whether it is capable and whether it will be able to end in the specified period. Point 4. - documentation for privatisation. This now speaks of documentation which, meaning, needs to be prepared by an entity that is privatised, or a company, but is again called upon by the agency, that the Agency can prepare the same documentation and it is again unclear when the agency enters the scene, or is not precisely defined at what point the agency assumes the main word and when the Agency prepares the documentation for these activities. The third part of privatisation is capital. The first point is the sale of capital, which is said in the third position - in the privatisation entity that is restructured under the provisions of this law, the total assets, i.e. capital, are sold. I've already said, the largest number of enterprises in this country must pass the restructuring process, the situation is that. If the total capital is sold in these companies, it means that workers of these companies will lose their shares. So they won't get any free action. The total capital will be sold after the restructuring process. The minister has already said in the opening statement that only a small number of enterprises, the largest, and about 150, are going to be sold in a public tender, and everyone else is going to be auctioned or restructured, but I think the largest number will go to restructuring, because the economic situation in our country is that. Furthermore, the sales contract, Article 41, which states: "The contract on the sale of capital, i.e. the property contains provisions on the parties to the contract, the subject of sale, the contract price, the payment period, the use of land etc." There's no mention here of company workers, nor of their further destiny. So, one clause should have been introduced more precisely here, which will necessarily define the status of workers in the sales contract, as it is clear to all of us that a large number of workers will be exceeded after this privatisation process. Point 2. - transfer of capital without compensation, so sub-point 2) to transfer shares to employees. Article 43 states: "The right to take action without compensation is not realised in privatisation entities where more than 50% of social capital is not sold - which is logical, and it still says - neither in privatisation entities where restructuring is carried out." It is already said in Article 25(3) that these entities are sold complete, there is no action for workers, so here it may be excessive. Article 44: "Privatisation entities make a decision to issue actions without compensation and by public invitation inform employees about it". It is already said above that employees, i.e. pensioners, former employees, are entitled to these actions. However, I do not understand, this public call may be very awkward in the sense that not all workers will be timely informed of these actions, of the entry of actions, I fear that a good part of them, especially those who once worked in the company, and by this article will have all the rights to action, that they will remain deprived of these actions, of course, and pensioners etc. So maybe this should have been regulated in some other way, that the company service automatically, as soon as it started with this procedure, that it had all the lists and employees at present and earlier employees and that it automatically entered into actions for all those who were in contact with this privatised company. Also, Article 45 in a way stimulates the privatisation process in the sense that it goes into privatisation as soon as possible. It is thought of privatization by auctioning, by limiting the value of the capital to be privatised, i.e. to be shared by workers, is limited depending on the time limit in which privatisation is made. This member can be accepted, but from Article 46, that is, he is unacceptable to me, because the rights of workers are again reduced here, even though workers are not, or are at least at fault if privatisation is late. In one place, workers' rights are reduced by a percentage of capital that goes to free shares for employees, and on the other, workers' rights are again reduced to an absolute amount of those shares. I think this is too high and this is the double punishment of workers who are least guilty of delaying this process. The next item is the transfer of employees' shares in the sale process through a public tender. In Article 49, the first position states: "The capital for the acquisition of shares without compensation in the privatisation entity is at the most 15% of the capital to be privatised by the public tenedee". I don't understand why this is the most, why it's not exactly defined percent here in the law, and who's going to determine later, which is the percentage, if it's 15%, it can be 10%, and 13% and 9%, who's going to determine the value, or the percentage that's being distributed to the workers in this part of the free action. Next item...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10158	Mr. Jovanovic, 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10159	If I could just have one more minute. The next point speaks in proportion to the reduction in the amount of shares and yet it is at the expense of workers, because if there is not enough capital, then workers get less than what the law gives them as a right. I don't know if it's going to be replaced elsewhere, but apparently under this law it won't. As for the transfer of shares to citizens, I will end up there, although I have more, this part does not fix the percentage of the capital sold by the public tender that goes to the citizens. Here it's said again that it's at least 15%, but it can be even more, we still don't know how much it is. In the end, let me just say, for the citizens to know, free action is divided into citizens only by those companies that are privatised by the public tender method and nothing else. In view of this, at 15% of the capital, and possibly some percentage more, I claim that the citizens of this country will not get literally nothing on this basis, or it will be so symbolic and so minor that it will be quite insignificant and in this very place we can talk about the fairness of this law. He's just for that very reason unfair...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10160	13 minutes, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10161	He is unfair because he brings both workers and citizens into an unequal position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10162	The word has a minister of economy and privatisation, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10163	Gentlemen, I thank you for the truly constructive discussion that the predecessor had. However, there is something I must say that the public would not be unnecessarily alarmed, that this law would not offer citizens anything. That's not true. For the first time, the law will cover this broad category of unemployed people, a category of young people over 18. So, for the first time since the employees here will be participated and unemployed by offering this legal category of people the rest of the action or so on. worthless actions, but the most valuable part of the Serbian economy. The tender privatisation will privatise the largest companies. Not only social, but also state-owned enterprises, Therefore, citizens will be adequatelyparticipating in the actions of Telekom, more precisely what is left after the privatisation of 1997 and in the actions of the Oil Industry and in the actions of Elektroprivreda, in the actions of the Railways and in the actions of all major enterprises located in the social sector. Also in the actions of those companies that started privatisation under the previous legal procedure, and part of their actions is in the action fund. We'll take good action from a company action fund like Synthelon, Hemofarm and some others and transfer it to the Privatization Register. What's a privatisation register? The Privatization Register is an investment fund and I hope you know what an investment fund is. So, the investment fund that's going to quote its stock market tomorrow so that when citizens get the stock, they don't keep them inside and they don't know what to do with them, they're going to be able to move them freely over the stock market and see if they make a capital gain. Why the limited number of actions, gentlemen? Why the limited number of portfolios in the privatisation fund, i.e. the privatisation register? Because anyone who does know something about how an investment fund works will realize that it only makes sense that it exists if there are portfolios of shares in a limited number of enterprises. In this case, there will be a portfolio of the privatisation fund's actions or now as it is called the register, in 150 companies, and it will be the gentlemen of the most attractive action and, I'm sure, one of the first actions to be listed on the Belgrade Stock Exchange.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-25-0.u10164	Mr. Zivanovic, do you want me to give you my word, since we still have seven minutes? Do you want to talk tonight or should we leave for the morning? For the morning. Then I'll see you in the morning at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 133 MPs, and in order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. Can I complete my notice on the presence of the MPs? Thank you. (He speaks to Ambassador Baralic, who asks for a word. ) I inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Miomir Tadic, Dragan Marsican, Vojislav Dosen, Nenad Bogdanović, Vuko Antonijevic, Zaharija Trnavčević, Branislav Pomorički, Branislav Grubački, Zoran Bošković, Petar Misic, Sredoje Mihajlov, Istvan Išpanovic, Nebojsa Leković and Ljubisa Maravic. Dragan Jocic will be late, and Predrag Bajcetic is away this afternoon. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. I would also like to inform you that the sittings were invited to attend Nenad Canak, the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and Dr Predrag Filipov, vice-president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, as the authorised representatives of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, who submitted amendments to the draft laws on the agenda of this session. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF PRIVATION, PRIVATION AGENCY AND THE ASSESSMENT FONDU (addition) Before I give the word to the next elected MP for discussion, the word is Mr. Baralic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
