ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9300	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 139 MPs. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Laslo Torde, Mihajlo Marković, Dusan Golubović, Branislav Pomorijski, Jon Cisamšas, Radmilo Miloševic, Petar Mišić, Predrag Bajčetić, Jakov Stamenković, Boris Karaičić, Ljubodrag Grbić, Zaharija Trnavčević, Ljubisa Maravić, Stevan Lilic, Vladan Jovičić, Bojan Kostreš, Sredoje Mihajlov, Nebojsa Leković and Zoran Boskovic. Milutin Svedovic will be late. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. I would also like to inform you that the sittings were invited to attend Nenad Canak, the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and Dr Predrag Filipov, vice-president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, as the authorised representatives of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, who submitted amendments to the draft laws on the agenda of this session. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE SINGLE ISSUE ON EXTRA REVENUE AND EXTRA IMPROVED USE OF SPECIAL POSITIONS (SPECIFICS) I am opening a review of the Bill's proposal in particular. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a word from MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9301	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam President, in his desire to help the Dossow majority in parliament form a single-party parliament, the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly made a mistake last night and injured the Rules of Procedure - Article 87(2). The member says that after the opening of the search for each agenda session of the National Assembly, they have the right to receive the word in the following order, among other things, MPs in the order of registration. Word applications shall be submitted at the opening of the search and may be submitted until its conclusion. What's this about? When MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, provoked by quick decisions on the departure of Mr. Kesjejic, left the session, we had a meeting this afternoon and during the meeting of the President of the Republika Srpska Assembly, Mr. Marsican, called every MP of the Serbian Radical Party, so when he realized he was not present, he called on the MP to speak who was present at that time in the hall. We, realizing the situation, as DOS lawmakers, estimated that it was very favourable that there were no MPs of a parliamentary party, asked to be discussed by the end of the day, until the debate ended in principle, in the 19.20 protest came out of the hall, believing it was wrong of the dossing majority to make it impossible for a parliamentary party to express its position in the debate in principle. The president of the Republika Srpska Assembly, after the presentation of the minister, who was normally always staged in the end to match everything before him, concluded the debate by saying there were no more reported, which is not true. Three other SPS MPs were reported and he was obliged to read their names, so that Serbian citizens knew that SPS MPs had and how else to speak in the debate in principle. Therefore, he injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 87, because he was obliged to read the names of registered MPs, not to find out that there were no more registered MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9302	Mr. Ivkovic, I don't think there's any damage to article 87. Your protest has only done you harm. Mr. Ivkovic, I answer to you pointing out your violation of the Rules of Procedure, to your remarks... (speaks - warning) I don't want a warning, but I think the most basic order is to listen to the explanation, if you've already objected to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think there's any damage. So, your protest date has done you some damage. Mr. Martian read who else was registered for the discussion. There were two more... (voices -- no) We can check in the stenographic notes. And if he didn't read it, they weren't in the O.R., so he gave the word to Mr. Secretary. If you're not satisfied with the answer, we can vote. Mr. Ivkovic? Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go, Mr Tomislav Nikolic has the word, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, whenever I submit an amendment to Article 1 of a bill, which I propose that this first member be deleted, I mean that it should be withdrawn from the procedure of the whole bill, because I believe that a certain law, and this one certainly is, is not sufficiently well, sufficiently precise, sufficiently professionally prepared, so that in practice it can be applied without any doubt, without any arbitration, indiscriminately, means that it is addressed and that it applies to all citizens of Serbia, so that they, in the application of that law, are equal. I think it's time for the government to seriously consider once again how really those who have become rich, gained extra profit, extra property, those who have used convenience, those who have stolen, how they can bring them in real, so they can help the citizens of Serbia, but it has to be studioed. It can't be the law we promised in the campaign, and we have to propose it to the Assembly as soon as possible. There are ten million of us in Serbia. The government doesn't know who this bill applies to. The law is not so clear that all those concerned know that it applies to them, but will re-arbitrate the government and again someone else has to determine what kind of people it is. This bill lacks a list. You've had plenty of time. As soon as you made the law, it means that you had in mind all the ways in which individuals gained profits or property, all the ways in which they played regulations, all the ways in which, and acting according to regulations, they came up with extra property. I think the government owes us a list of companies and individuals right now. We want to know exactly who this law applies to. We see that you have individuals in mind who are political rivals, but to me, it's much more important that the companies have a lock on the door after this law is applied. How many workers, especially in social enterprises, who are involved in production, will be out of work because this law will be applied. The government knows that, and she shouldn't have said that. We need to know what happens to the companies we've saved our lives by getting foreign exchanges per course, getting goods from stock reserves, because they've been supplying huge cities, and they're mostly social enterprises, by getting funds from different funds to revive production, so people aren't on the street. We need to know how it's going to get the government's arbitration that these companies don't go bankrupt when the law didn't predict such a possibility. It's a great idea. The idea needs to be implemented by one of the right laws. Indeed, if there are people you know who have lived past the way most people have lived, that they have not been concerned about our situation in the last 10 years, that they have not been affected by sanctions or war, these people should be exposed in some way to some law. True, in that Article 3, which is basic and which makes the whole law retroactive, you have even predicted some criminal acts to tax, not counting on the fact that they are crimes and that there can be very easy by the Criminal Law to even confiscate property. If someone was selling excise goods, without paying excise taxes, what kind of extra tax -- that's where the criminal proceedings are being conducted, and it's eventually being disclosed, it ends with it. He can't wash his soul and conscience with some kind of tax. This bill needs to be completed, it has to go into procedure and be applied, but it has to be a non-selective law, it has to be a fair law. It must not harm either the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, nor the Constitution of the SRJ, to be in collegiate with other laws, whose provisions it does not write in the law, or to amend and supplement those laws, under which some members of those laws (and you know that I mean bonds, and the Law on administrative procedure), under which these members of certain laws will cease to apply, because this law will apply. We will have a situation before the courts, that the judges will not know by which law to judge. This law is not a priority, it is not superior to other laws, which are in legal traffic. He is equal to them, and whenever he is in collegiate with the provisions of another law, there will be his inappropriation, and a law that cannot be applied cannot even be adopted in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9304	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering for word on this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9305	This amendment would have to be accepted if the congregation majority did not want to fully overcome the basic principles of the legal order. In every modern legal order, it avoids the adoption of special laws, as special laws first and foremost endanger the legal security of citizens. Special laws are difficult to break under the Constitution and the basic laws of the legal system. This can't be the basic law, this is by its nature a one-time law, so who he hangs, hangs, who he doesn't hang, doesn't get hooked up with. A law like this leaves a huge freedom to the executive government. This law cannot be called tax law, although it speaks of one-time tax. The tax by definition must be a permanent obligation and that everyone in advance knows that they will pay taxes - for that and for that, taxes are paid so much and so much. The tax cannot be introduced for something that has passed. What has passed, above all, is a crime, and the congregation's majority avoids being prosecuted really as a criminal act, because many prominent figures of the current regime, such as Dusan Mihajlovic and others, should be subjected to this crime. That's what you want to avoid at all costs. The question arises -- an individual, who comes under the influence of this law, does he even have the moral right to perform any government function in the future, because he has shown a tendency to take advantage of a function in an earlier period. In this case, there's something else that's in collegiate with the tax code that's already passed. A month ago, you passed a tax code, which states that tax obligations go out of date if they don't charge within three years, and now you're introducing 12 years, as the basis of retroactive taxation. Both laws cannot remain in legal traffic, because whoever is subject to such a law will simply say that all his tax obligations are over three years old, long old, especially those of 12 years ago. Secondly, you pass a law relating to 1989, and the Constitution of Serbia was passed in 1990. All laws are passed under the current Serbian Constitution. From the aspect of this constitution, the previous state was an unconstitutional state. It cannot, from the aspect of this constitution, be passed a special law, so that the condition that existed before the Constitution, the out-of-constitutional state, is sanctioned by it. That's also pointless. And by any legal project that you are performing, in this House you are actually showing how much you care that Serbia does not have a constitutional court, as long as possible, so that such legal acts can be adopted uninterrupted, because those who realize that these legal acts are illogical, anti-constitutional, unsustainable in the legal order, actually have no instance at their disposal, in which they could dispute these laws. That's the point. A law like this will probably be passed. As an opposition and a Serbian radical, I am not concerned that such a law will be voted on, because it will speed up the undermining of the current government. The more anti-constitutional laws the authorities bring to themselves, the more damage they do to themselves. But, of course, I wouldn't have the intention of convincing you that this law is against the constitution if it weren't for the Serbian public. More, in fact, I point to the Serbian public all aspects of the opposition of this law, than I have a desire to deter you from voting at all. Vote you and this law, and the next you can bring, that anyone who is against the DOS, to be shot by a brief procedure, you can vote all of this in the assembly, but, by tyranny, most people do not strengthen the legal order, most of them are being subject to legal order.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9306	He has the word MP, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, as a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9307	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, when we as the parliamentary majority want to regulate one area of our lives by law, we cannot be held accountable for the criticism that defines such an effort as tyranny, because if we have so far dealt with the laws, we have never been closer to the law, which, on the one hand, regulates in the right way, and on the other hand, tends to justice. So far, we have passed laws that were absolutely justified on the political side, on the economic side justified, which also had social components that were undeniable, but we have had a hard time responding to those remarks that sought justice. This law is a step towards justice, and when we talk about an amendment, which proposes that it be abolished, then we are practically talking about an idea that inaugurates injustice and lawlessness. And all these examples that we've been talking about in the past few days are examples that have come from a time when laws have been lawless. Criminal law will be a law sanctioning all those who committed a crime. But what about not so many, but we can't get around them, the individuals who are -- in a period of power of the person we can't talk about, and we shouldn't talk about it, because part of the past -- has done things that are deeply unfair in themselves and that certainly shouldn't be neglected. It is not true that social enterprises will suffer, but it is true that those directors who built their economic power must respond at the time when their companies failed. It is not true that apartments under this law will have to pay citizens of Serbia, but it is true that housing taxes will have to be paid by those who first solved their personal housing problem. It is not true that this law will spare the people who make up DOS today, because it is this law that they have shown that they are capable and that they are ready to face themselves. Whoever passes this law today, let him think about the effects of its application in his own case. If we hadn't brought it, we wouldn't have had the courage to go out in front of the citizens and say that we're different from the ones we broke up with in the December and September elections. Criticizing the legislator of this law and in this criticism insisting on the fact that precisely they are trying to avoid this law is something in itself nonsensical and something that in itself is in the function of creating a chaos and atmosphere in which nothing reasonable can be done. It's very precise that it's a good idea. But then we talk about applying and realising that idea. We haven't heard from each other. The lists are mentioned. What law was passed with respect to the list? If we had agreed to that, then we would have been like those who waved lists on this country, fearing everyone who doesn't agree with them. This law is fair. He is just and he strives to seduce order in one area of our lives. He's retroactive because justice cannot be unthinkable. Justice is slow, but reaching, among other things, through this law. Let no one in Serbia be afraid, but let everyone in Serbia think about their moves, because the facts that we are talking about here today are the facts that commit to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9308	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word is Mr. Ivkovic, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9309	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, surely we should talk about justice and justice, but we should also talk about the scope of this law. This coverage of the law, which is fully partial and which covers only one fifth of possible ways of obtaining extra profits or extra income, says it is a fully targeted law that has direct political motivation. Not to mention the shameful reasoning of this law, which probably every lawyer in this country is ashamed of, because it has nothing to do with law or regulation, but has to do with politics and political goals directly. Therefore, the idea of passing this law is extremely good and we welcome it. However, the text of this law is disastrous because it covers only one-fifth of potential taxpayers under this system. I'll talk about the other details later. They repeat that here, for a pay phone, ideas and attitudes are directly spoken, which can be explicitly and easily explained by the following: whether it should be covered as a taxpayer, by this law, by someone who has worked safely and responsibly and who has received a lease solution indefinitely, by law and by that law bought an apartment rather than involving someone who lived outside this country, smuggled, traded, worked in conditions created by the international community by the embargo, who built a 1000-square house, who built tennis courts, who raised swimming pools and did not pay taxes. He's not in this law. Tell that to the citizens of Serbia. He's not anywhere. Then what's going on? This law pursues an institutional way of making extra profit, chasing it blindly and with a lack of understanding of state governance. If a company, like Jugopetrol, gets the right to buy out 6 dinars per mark, when the mark is 15 dinars, it has been granted the right, but has therefore been limited by a selling price, because the government of the Republic of Serbia has kept account, by the price of oil derivatives, of not affecting the social situation and the standard of citizens. Therefore, in many situations, those who had the right to buy and received exporters, but they, you tell the citizens of Serbia, had to sell the same bank and the same foreign exchange at the same rate they were given. So there's a lot of colorful lies here. This is pure political text. To read a text that is not mine, which means a lot: "The establishment of rights and justice cannot be done by bad law, and especially by those who are anti-constitutional and which violates the civilization's legal principles of legality and legal certainty. The bill is in general retroactive, with a return fact, because it regulates relations between individuals and the state, created in the past tense. That law doesn't regulate behavior for the future. "That's indicative. Why this law is not the same for the future as for the past, which makes it impossible to say that this law is only in its individual provisions with a retroactive fact. Mr. Lawyers, this legal text and how they understand it. "The bill," that's the worst thing right now, "doesn't make a difference between legal and illegal treatment." So, the legislator gives one anonymous group, unidentified, without methodology, without criteria, to just assess whether someone, acting by law, had a chance to generate extra profits and whether someone, working outside the law, could also generate an extra profit or not, plus Article 9 gets the right to negotiate. This introduces political similarity in the way this law is implemented. "This does not list any legally relevant fact which would serve as a criterion for determining the conditions that have been available to some, rather than to all citizens. This leads to arbitration and endangers the legal certainty of each individual declared by the administrative body incomes to a taxpayer. It is thus noted that under the use of special benefits, it is considered, among other things, that the use of funds from primary and grey money emissions, in financial transactions and the purchase of foreign exchanges in the official course of the NBJ, when the market rate was higher." It is obvious that these two situations were in line with the rules and were formally available to all economic operators. So what has been prescribed as permitted behavior cannot be subsequently treated as a special convenience. Only abuse of rights and violation of regulations can create conditions for special benefits, as any illegal conduct is just being conducted to gain a certain benefit that is not available to those acting in accordance with the law. Hence, it is surprising that these two situations are equating with a number of other situations which have been duly introduced into the draft law, such as: the delivery of foreign exchanges on the basis of the advance payment of imports, which is not later realised, and which you did not include, i.e., on the basis of invoiced rather than the services performed, etc. (President: Time. ) This proposal of the law goes against the bankruptcy rights of citizens and legal persons, and a tax ruling is taken by the administrative authority whose solution is implemented, regardless of the appeal made, without waiting for a court ruling which may be different from the decision of the administrative authority. Only by order of the court can the right of property acquired on certain items of someone's property be encroached, and as regulated by European standards and by the Constitution of the SRJ, dear gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9310	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. I put to vote the amendments of MP Tomislav Nikolic. For 55, against 132 abstentions, there were no four votes, out of a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina submitted to the 1st Amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. Is anyone else answering for a word? Mr. Seselj, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9311	This amendment to the Vojvodina Assembly, to Article 1, is a very valuable indicator which can in practice lead to the government's insistence on one anti-constitutional law. The law that is before us is objectively anti-constitutional. There is no way he can agree with the existing Serbian Constitution. And when such a legal act arises, then there is a right to a jag of certain legal entities, who will participate in the division of prey expected by law enforcement. If that weren't the case, who in the Vojvodina Assembly would have thought of asking for 50% of all tax revenues on this basis charged on the territory of the Vojvodina? They're looking for it in this case for local self-government units. I know very well what I'm saying, but you don't know. It is the same when it is sought for autonomy like Vojvodina and when it is sought for local self-government. Local self-government is one form of autonomy, and it's not there. It's a local citizen autonomy. It's the result of a legal project like this. Since you are unable to explain the legal basis of the law, the constitutional basis, you are calling for justice. Justice must always be in accordance with the law. If this is about objective justice, there is no objective justice that is against justice. There is your subjective sense of justice. It's strictly ideological in this case. So it would be fair to take something and take it away, even though there is no basis in the Constitution, we will pass a special law, and we will kidnap it, after what happens. Secondly, by this legal project you amnesty of the responsibilities of those who have created conditions to achieve extra profit of the special benefits of profit and acquisition of material wealth, and those who used once in a skillful way, once with their ability, existing conditions, are now taxing. At a time when they got it, though, they couldn't be aware that the tax had to be paid. From that point of view, who will agree to invest in Serbia any capital, if they do not know what they are bringing tomorrow and what kind of law the authorities can think of, to subsequently enter into the capital capital or profile that is acquired by investing capital. Here it means there can be no talk of justice and justice. Justice against the Constitution is not justice. What is contrary to the Constitution in the democratic legal order is unfair, therefore injustice. Justice cannot be left to the will of the executive authority and its interpretation as a concept. Where the executive government decides what is justice and what is not justice, it is tyranny. When such things happen here in parliament, it is about the tyranny of the parliamentary majority, and that is the term known very well in political theory. I don't care if it's in accordance with the Constitution, if I have enough votes to adopt it. Then where is justice? If it's about justice, it's about why justice is selective. Justice must not be selective. She's got to be related to everything. If there are concrete phenomena from a society that are bad, then there must first be a register of these phenomena, in order to pass a special law on the basis of the register. You are constantly running away from that register, so that the register will not be made available to the public, so that the public will ask why and why it is not there, and it would have to be objectively according to all the criteria.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9312	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9313	That's how you took him down, that's how you avoided him, that's how you put someone else in. That's the problem with this law that can't be fair, because it's the opposite right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9314	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9315	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise the violation of Rules of Procedure in Articles 207 and 209. I will read to you Article 207(1): "The Members of the People have the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the People's Parliament". And Article 209. - The Service of the National Assembly, providing within its tasks, conditions for the exercise of the function of the MP, and at their request, gives them expert explanations on the particular problems encountered in the work of the National Assembly. The previous presentation evidently showed that the MP needed expert assistance to consider amendments to the Vojvodina Assembly. I'm asking the Assembly to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9316	The word has been given by the MP, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, as a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9317	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... (From O.R.: To be clear. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9318	Mr. Chedomir, I apologize, I believe there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure from members advertised by the MP and I give my word to the representative of the parliamentary group. Are you asking us to plead, to vote on this? (From O.R.: To be clear. I'm sorry, Mr. Jovanovic. I ask the Members of Parliament to be declared by the vote on the objection to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure of Articles 207 and 209. For 82, against 16, 25 abstentions, the vote was not 43, a total of 166 MPs. I find that there has been no breach of Rules 207 and 209 of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to make sure that we are effective in our work. Here you go, Mr. Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9319	You have just shown what the tyranny of the congregation's majority means. I am very glad that this vote has taken place, because it will remain in the political and legal history of the Serbian people. This has shown how you apply the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure in a volunteer way and what the uncompromising will of the congregation's majority means, which is not at all interested in what it says in the Constitution, what it says in the Rules of Procedure. You can vote anything that comes to your mind. It's good that you can. It's a good thing you're doing this to show your true face.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9320	I have nothing to say to you, except that the Messengers of the people vote on their consciences and their knowledge. Is anyone else applying for a discussion? I have already given the representative of the parliamentary group a word, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. I apologize for returning you from the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9321	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 1. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said to be the country in which we live the democratic state of all citizens based on the freedoms and rights of man and citizen, the rule of law and social justice. That's what the Constitution says. We couldn't all get functional housing, we couldn't all take the loans that some of us took. We couldn't all run companies that failed, and we couldn't manage them to be successful executives. Only some of them could do that. This law seeks the unity of justice and justice. If he wasn't here, then you might be talking about something my predecessor was talking about. However, a very important amendment is ahead of us, an amendment from which good and bad conclusions could be drawn. It is good that finally state institutions are taking on an active role in creating a legislative environment in society and it is good that Parliament has proposed this amendment. It would be a very bad failure to interpret it as a conflict between the Republic and the province. It's not like that. We simply cannot support this amendment for one simple reason, because it would cause unnecessary damage to those local self-governments and those municipalities that do not have taxpayers in their midst that will be treated by these laws because the funds achieved in this way go into the Republic budget, and hence, in accordance with the needs, which will be, for example, the Vojvodina, established in the direct communication of the Executive Council of the Vojvodina and the Republic Government, in the communication of the duchy Parliament and the Republic Parliament, will be settled and held accountable to them. In any case, we welcome the initiative of the Duke's Parliament. It is by no means the result of the autonomous political concept. This is an amendment to meet the units of local self-government, but at the same time, in our opinion, damage is done to those municipalities that do not have bindings on their territory that would be treated by this law. So it's just about the distribution of budgets and the level of that distribution. We think it is best to do so through a republican budget, with a control that would be parliamentary and that would not exclude the role of the Vojvodina Parliament and the Executive Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9322	Is there anyone else applying for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting on the vote by the amendment tabled by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. For 14, against 132 abstentions, 5 did not vote 34, out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9323	This amendment would make sense if the whole law were amended, transferred, if it were in line with the Constitution and the system laws that make up the backbone of the legal order, and in that case the extraordinary revenue of the budget would have to have a predetermined purpose, that it would be known that it would not be a matter of the government's will, the executive authorities, that it would have the money, but that it would have a very strict budgetary purpose and that it would be controlled whether the purpose was respected. In this case, in order for such an amendment to be adopted, many other members of this law should change from the root, and this should be taken into account when considering the amendment of Peter Jojic. Here is the most interesting thing why the ruling majority avoids making a register of all those who have used these benefits in the past, to determine exactly who has used these benefits in an illegal way. Only those who used this in an illegal manner could come under the rule of law, so when the register is made, that it is said to be so much and so much property and these assets will be used for social needs, for the pension fund, for health care, for education, for culture, etc. Without it, this law is just one hack, and it can't be figured out in advance who's gonna get hit and who won't. Someone here was talking about Jugopetrol earlier. For example, I have reliable information, when it comes to "Yugopetrol", that "Yugopetrol" on several occasions in 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, huge amounts of money, without any invoices and covers, meant exclusively as a donation, paid to the company "Lutra", owned by Dusan Mihajlovic. This happened in 1996 -- 10 million dinars, in 1997, more than 10 million dinars, in 1998, almost a million, in 1999, 131,000 etc. That's under code 651-680. So you can check it out. There are no invoices, no basis. Of course, it does not occur to you that you are putting it on the wallpaper too, or you will leave Dusan Mihajlovic's opportunity to settle with Minister Djelic without the public knowing that they have made a deal. The registry should be informed of each individual case, because when someone comes under the influence of such legal norms, the public must know and many other things are questionable. Minister Mihajlovic cannot remain a minister afterwards, when we have all this in mind. So it can't be a matter of his personal contract with Minister Djelic, but of the whole Serbian public opinion, so that some other repercusions can be drawn from it. That's the point, not a private settlement, so it's obvious to you this much, to you, no one will ever know. The public here would have to know everything precisely about each individual case. It's just that it makes sense to investigate irregularities from the previous period and, of course, not to avoid criminal prosecution, and I can see that the least you care about is that you're actually committing criminal prosecution for those most flagrant cases of abuse of functions, because people of the current authorities are involved in this as well. Many among them, I can't say for all of them yet, but as things set out for some of the following law in 2002, 2003, 2004, there will also be material, so it will be explored how who received the race horses on a gift, how who had a huge security detail, which was not previously in this political practice. Previously, only the president of the Republic and the Prime Minister had state security, and now there are almost every minister and so on. So, every time it brings some of its concrete values, which are determined and from the point of view of who is in power, you are only giving this precedent a good indication of how each of the next authorities will treat their predecessors.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9324	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Petar Jojic. For 56, against 128, one abstention did not vote 9, a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9325	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is about my discussion yesterday about this bill in principle. I've given the amendment to be in Article 1. The bill adds paragraph 2 which reads: "Extremely, the one-time tax referred to in Article 3 paragraph 1 of this Act belongs to the person from whom the ransom of the exchanges was made." This is where we now come to a dilemma of law or justice. By law, the purchase of foreign exchanges from natural and legal persons in the official course, when the market rate was significantly higher, was in line with the law and with law, but was not in line with justice. And it wasn't in line with this justice that you're now in favour of. If the state sold foreign exchanges per course to various NN entities, these foreign exchanges were not state-owned because this country does not print foreign exchanges. These foreign exchanges are foreign exchanges that the state sown, buying on an official course from many economic operators and natural persons. Those foreign exchanges now need these subjects back. But no state was damaged if Jugopetrol received six dinars, Bozidar Vucurovic was damaged, Miroljub Veljkovic was damaged, Mr. Stanko Kovacevic was damaged, Mr. Radoslav Vesenovic was damaged, all those who were engaged in foreign trade and had to sell foreign exchanges on the official course were damaged. The government doesn't accept the amendment because of what it says - the nature of things tax belongs to the state. We agreed here that despite the fact that this buy-in was not against the official course, that it was a robbery, and then we agreed, the former government robbed many economic operators, not against the law, but unfairly. And what does this new government do now? This new government is just continuing this theory of robbery, it's not going to return that money to those from whom that money was taken, it's trying to put it into extraordinary budget revenues, and it's not going to redistribute extraordinary incomes, so at least we know what that money's for. We were robbed once, so we were robbed. Now, what's been robbed, instead of coming back to us, is about to go to some new robbery. Reason that the tax by nature of things belongs to the State, to my amendment and to the justification of the amendment to Article 1. The congregations of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina are so opposite, they're ridiculous. It says here that the funds achieved through this tax should be available to all citizens of Serbia. And at my place, he says he should belong to the state. I highly doubt that the funds from the extraordinary revenues of the budget will belong to any citizen of Serbia, the funds will belong to the state, state officials, because that money should belong to Serbian citizens, the law would account for as many percent in the pension fund, so many and so many percent in the Fund of Children's and Social Protection, so many percent for the compensation of those who were unfairly damaged by legal projects. That doesn't stand anywhere, standing-in emergency budget revenues, that is, in the budget reserve. And from the extraordinary revenues of the budget, the Segedin Group will, of course, settle this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9326	Mr. Kovacevic, you have no right to a replica. There is nothing offensive about you. Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9327	This amendment most impressively indicates that your formal ideological commitment to justice has no basis. No one who has not suffered damage by a certain past action can gain a profit by taxing someone who has benefited. Justice would require that income from subsequent taxation goes to one who has suffered damage in time. No one could have sold foreign exchanges to the National Bank of Yugoslavia before, except for the official course. These exchanges had to be sold, sometimes entirely, and sometimes at a certain percentage, but as prescribed. Now, the National Bank did the same exchange rate. It can't be right in that course to buy foreign exchanges, and it can't be right in that course to sell foreign exchanges. So, the problem is that's where the foreign exchanges weren't sold to the one they were supposed to sell themselves to. That's the point. It's a criminal act. First of all, the governor of the National Bank, who approved it, or some other responsible person, should be responsible for the crime, and then whoever bought foreign exchanges per course, if it is proved that there was corruption, bribery and so on. But only in that case, if bribery is proven, because whoever took advantage of the convenience and the National Bank was selling foreign exchanges at a certain rate, in good faith he bought those foreign exchanges because he thought it was the price of the exchange and he couldn't answer. It must first prove the crime of corruption, otherwise it is pointless. Now, here you have to keep one more thing in mind. When it comes to social and public enterprises, it's all state-owned enterprises, with different names, because social property doesn't exist anywhere in the world except for us. You can't put these social public enterprises in the same level with private companies. When it comes to private companies, you cannot put in the same level companies dealing with production and commercial enterprises. In any case, when it comes to a commercial enterprise, such as "Lutra" Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, it is a criminal offence. Which would make the state three times cheaper to sell foreign exchanges to a trading company and make the trader even richer. If it's about investing in some particularly significant type of production and if Simpo was a social firm, and if privatisation was made, I don't know, but why would it be problematic if the state gave it to a social firm, and the social firm used that money wisely. The state later has great benefits, because with expanded production, tax collection is also better and the number of employees is higher. Only in the case of trade has a crime always been committed, if someone received foreign exchanges in the official course of the National Bank, because it was not generally available to everyone, but only to a limited number of privileged ones. Now let's see if there's one in the SRS? There isn't. Is there a DOS? There's at least one I know, and that's Dusan Mihajlovic. Is there any more, let's see, and that company of the FMP Trade, Nebojja Covica and others. We know about Dusan Mihajlovic. You gave him a million credit marks from the Serbian Development Fund recently, although his company is not involved in any production. Where there's no production, no development. It can't lead to development. Trade is intervention in the manufacturing sphere. Of course, the store is useful and you can't do it without the store. But the state can't help individual merchants like this. There, your law also falls to you in terms of fundamental justice, that is, justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9328	Is there anyone else coming forward under this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, as a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9329	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is only important to respond to those objections concerning the allocation of funds achieved through the application of this law. These funds go to cover the deficits in the republican budget, it says very clearly. Those who are damaged may seek compensation, but under other procedures, not in accordance with this law. We are prepared for such a thing and this best proves yesterday's example of the Ministry of Finance, which has returned all the funds that have been paid back by applying the Information Law through penalties taken from the media in Serbia. So anyone who is damaged by incorrect law enforcement or abuse can and should seek the protection of their rights, but not through this law. This law doesn't do that. He is fundamentally different, and he refers to the kind of problem that does not exclude criminal responsibility or bypass it. So the funds achieved by applying this law go to cover the budget deficit. They do not go to private businesses and cannot be the subject of compensation for those who have suffered damage for the past ten years and since 1989 since this law has been retroactively applied. This damage is much greater, and it certainly cannot be compensated by the use of these funds. We all know that. But you have your rights and those rights must be guaranteed, and if they are injured, we are prepared to protect you like all other citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9330	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments tabled by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. For 55, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote 21, out of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Pelevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9331	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2(1) which I have proposed to delete the words "taxing extra income and extra property in the period from 1.1.1989 to the day of entry into force of this law". I suggested this because the solution proposed by the promoter in Article 2 speaks of it as if never before, before 1.1.1989, there were not those who misused their privileged position and thus gained extra income or extra property, and that no one would use and abuse their official position in an illegal manner to obtain extra profits from iextre property. We don't think that's true. We believe that in 1.1.1989, there was also abuse of position and that there will certainly be after the entry into force of this law. Of course, it is very difficult to determine for such a long time period of abuse, since books are kept for 10 years and it is very difficult to obtain data and explore what was done before 1.1.1989. But it is very important that this law does not have a restrictive legal fact, there is no time-limiting fact, because we believe that no government in this world is immune to the abuse of its position, public officials, state officials, and that no government is immune to the abuse of privileges that this function carries. That is why we believe that it is not fair and that it does not comply with the Constitution of Serbia (Article 13) that this applies to only one period from 1.1.1989 to the day of entry into force of this law. Because whoever guarantees us that the current officials will not abuse their position and will not illegally acquire extra income and extra property. So it would be justly fair in accordance with the Constitution, which prescribes the equality of citizens of Serbia, that this law is not limited by time, but acting on a permanent basis. In that sense, it should also not be called - a one-time tax, but - a tax on extra income and extra property. For example, if someone buys an apartment bigger than the one who belongs after the entry into force of this law, it means that it will not come under the influence of this law. Yeah, that's exactly what it means. He won't come under the influence of this law. We believe that this is a violation of Article 13. The constitution of Serbia that regulates this and we think it is good that this law applies to both the previous government and the current government, and to all future authorities that are coming. Because if we want to pass a fair law, then it must apply to all authorities, both previous and current, and future authorities. We voted in principle yesterday for the adoption of this law, because we think it is good and that all those individuals in the previous regime, who have misused the official position, should return what they acquired to the people through illegal means. We think it's fair, that it's good, no matter what we have a lot of objections to the law itself. I hope that today or tomorrow, by adopting a number of amendments, and by party of Serbian Unity and other parties that have proposed the amendments, this law will be improved. We will decide whether we will support this law in general or not, only after the amendment debate, since we want this law to really improve, because there are a lot of amendments to all parties that could do it, that this law really makes it fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9332	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Here you are, Mr. Seselj as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9333	Setting a clear distinction between the time period to which the law applies is very important. This time period cannot be wider than the time provided for obsolescence in Criminal Law, when it comes to criminal acts. There can't be an unfavourable version of Criminal Law here. What's out of date under Criminal Law can't be revitalised under some other law. Secondly, here is the question - how far to go in the past. And I'm going back to the problem of justice and justice, which potentials the dossier majority. You know, no one can say that the agrarian reform, carried out by King Alexander after the First World War, is unfair. Personally, I think she was just in those conditions. But King Alexander took away many more lands from the Serbian Orthodox Church than the communists after World War II. You are now parallel to this legal project, which we are discussing, and here analogy is very important, you are suggesting a law on denationalization. You're going to kidnap one kind of people, and the other you're going to take back, which you're going to get in an illegal way like this. You're not going to tell me that pre-war rich people on Santa's house were building fair houses and fairies. Oh, no, you don't. We have testimony from literature. Read Stevan Jakovljevic, how the sand merchants put in flour and lysed the army, and how they sent their children, while Serbian soldiers died, to school in France, etc. You know, there's no honesty in excessive wealth. No one can make a fortune in their lifetime. The only way to gain wealth is to carry it from knee to knee, so it's a few generations away. Someone who gets rich in a hurry can rarely do it in a fair way. We have a really huge number of rich people in Serbia, who are newly recompromised by their nature. But that's where crimes must be committed, because there must be a crime in the vast wealth. But on the other hand, you would be the descendants of former criminals, who also quickly became rich, living primarily in the military, but also in the state, bribing, corruption, etc. A huge amount of goods, importing, we remember only an affair of bribery from King Milan's time about selling concessions for railways in Serbia. Now, you would now return their property to those thieves of that time, in fact to their descendants, and here you would in an uncanny way take one away from one another, and you wouldn't, and you wouldn't keep running away from making a register again and again. Because for all of these items that you state here, it's possible to make a register very quickly. I hope you didn't burn down the NBJ data on who was taking foreign exchanges per course. It's possible to find it. You didn't burn the data for all the other benefits that certain people had in the previous period, which were criminal. First, to establish that the public should be known names, and then legally sanction them all. Because this law that you're proposing here in your nature is either criminal or it applies to business crimes or it's infringing, but it can't possibly be tax laws. This law provides for sanctions, not taxes. Therefore, if we need to supplement the Penal Code, we should go to the supplement. She's not smart because she can't be retroactively applied, but there are standards in the current federal and republican criminal law that are quite good, that all criminals from the previous period come to justice. And that one consequence of the criminal sanctions is the confiscation of illegally acquired property. Why do you run away from it - it is a key question - that it is a criminal answer, and then that this illegally acquired property is taken away, in accordance with the law, that everything is in accordance with the Constitution, that no one can say that it is an illegal precedent and that it is about the vengefulness of the current government, according to some who ruled and made themselves rich in the previous period. You keep running away from it. Explain the reasons why you're running away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9334	The word has been given by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9335	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported on the amendment which is the subject of our debate, which is practically proposed to abolish the legal limit, which will be dealt with by the competent state authorities through the application of this law. He, on the one hand, is politically well motivated, and you are right, that any government should be controlled, but you must understand at the same time that the character of the society in which we live today is very different from the society we face today. Because you mentioned the question of the apartment, very seriously, but when they assign an apartment to a chosen person, or another person, it seems to be a felony, because the regulations are being broken. And we warn everyone in advance that this time, legislation will be respected and that those rules that have been in force so far will not apply. So when we talk about those people who are going to be taxed in accordance with this law, they haven't really committed a crime. Whether they committed a crime, let them conclude the courts, but most often those who shared those apartments did, and it is not this law, the law that deals exclusively with apartments. This law deals with primary emissions, contingents, quotas, loans, so, all those exteriors of time that we parted with. So, today we don't have primary shows, today foreign exchanges are not bought through familiarity with the governor of the National Bank. They are bought in exchanges of the National Bank, located on every corner. Today you have no difference between a set course, or a set course, and a real one, of 500 or 600%. These are facts, but you are in one right, which is that the government needs to be controlled and no one is taking away the right of any new parliamentary majority, to re-apply one such law and to say that this law is applied from October 5th to the day of the constitution of the new government. But one law, which in itself is one form of special law, which is retroactive, cannot be expected to be a law that will suddenly be applied. Such things are resolved through other laws and we are not able to apply existing legislation to the past. So we do it this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9336	The word is held by MP Dragan Tomic, as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9337	Gentlemen of Parliament, Mr Pelevic's amendment is absolutely meaningful and has an objective, and the goal is approximately the following, especially in this part when it talks about why the application of the law does not go further on to extra profits, but it will stop that moment and only what was in the period until the entry into force of this law will be treated. Is it possible in this general, as you say, chaos, at a general pace of creating extra profit and despite the recognition of all relevant factors that it has not caught the end of corruption, extra profit, various meshetar groups - these are statements by top people in power - then why stop the search for persons who will make extra profits in August, September, October, November, and by the end of this year, or early next year? I have to say, at this point, we're in a business year. We cannot interrupt the business year by saying that this moment will cease to be valid, therefore, the meaning of this commission, which was formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will in part cease to apply. He stops running. As we had the opportunity from the gentlemen of the commission to hear that they had already done a good part of the job, that they had data, that they had lists, etc. Then this law may even lose its meaning. Let's keep this law going, it means that after the entry into force, it's also going to be published in the Official Messenger. So, let it run and we will order half next year, that all those who will make extra profits, give time to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Commission, to pay and run jobs in the special year of these groups and groups. They won't stop. You know, we'll have in the autumn period the appearance of privileged loans, bank arrangements, the opening of credentials. Not everyone can get an credential with the bank, but only one who is privileged to do the import of goods, and then, on this side, production has been stopped. And, of course, someone said yesterday -- the fertilizer is 160 marks in Hungary. Well, it is, but it's not 16 marks 100 kg, fertilizer for our peasants, it's 40 marks, or 400 marks per tonne. So if no one here sees any extra profits, we'll have another import in August for the fall. So somebody's gonna make extra profits in that period again. Therefore, I think that the amendment is meaningful and I ask the MPs to support this amendment, Mr Pelevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9338	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I would like to put the amendment tabled by MP Borislav Pelevic. Please vote. For 56, against 113, two abstentions, were not voted 23, out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. National MP Dragan Tomic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word Mr. Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9339	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, I asked in the amendment to delete the date 01.01.1989 and put the date 31.05.1992 instead. The reasons for such a proposal are multiple. They repeat them - first, there are two different countries in that period. In 1989, there was SFRY, and Serbia was part of that country, where other regulations, other rules of conduct were in force, and during that period we had one serious suck-up of income from the state, especially through banking institutions, such as Ljubljanska Banka, Privredna Banka - Sarajevo, Zagreb, Dubrovnik Banka, and who knows everything that was in this space. Most of the time, significant financial resources have been drained from this country. We also had a period of state breakdown, and I must say that after the 1991 elections, a real package of reform laws, tax laws, was adopted in this Serbian parliament, and it came into force in 01.01.1992. That time marks something else, marks the essential formation of the SRJ and adoption of the Constitution, and the period when the sanctions came to us. I must remind myself that in May of that year, the famous street of Vasa Miskina (and what was called the second one) in Yugoslavia, i.e. Serbia, the first sanctions were imposed. This is the moment when the period of serious gray economy in this country is really beginning, the period of formation of various financial groups and groups that have generated extra profits and extra income begins. Of course, you can also talk about the previous period, I think it was the period of the economic development where the loans for Serbia's rebirth were. I don't think it can fit in this period, because these loans and credit potentials have remained in this period, as well as the obligation to repay them. Therefore, there is no reason not to treat it this way. But that time between 1989 and 1992 is burdened by many other factors that have affected the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia and the formation of a new one, the beginning of war events on the premises of the former Yugoslavia and the creation of the general conditions that led to this. Of course, when we look at this period - 31.05.1992, we can immediately think of 1993, which with its enormous inflation led us into this general state. I have to say that when this pay phone says who controlled the financial flows, who, in his own way, lobbyed in certain forms of business, financing, etc., we can apply the practice to this moment for some time. These financial lobbies didn't break by coming to the DOS government at all. I get the impression that they've gotten along even more, concentrated, strengthened, and just prepared themselves for extra profits. Therefore, these forms of extra profit which are described in this law are only part of institutional taxation, a set of previous-term laws, adopted economic policies in the previous period and various decisions by state authorities. What's essential, the financial lobby, he's not even touched in this law. So when we talk about this period, I think the best bileperide since 31.05 would be treated, because it really covers and takes a width that talks, first of all, about financial lobbys, lobbys that are still on stage today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9340	Is anyone else on this amendment answering for a word? Mr. Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9341	This amendment is interesting because it raises the question of the time-limit of the law, i.e. the period of time to which the law applies. It is obvious that in this proposal the date of January 1st 1989 was arbitraryly determined. Ambassador Tomic wants it to be May 31st 1992. He, unlike the government, at least has some argument. That day, by the United Nations Security Council's decision, sanctions were imposed against our country. But there is an immediate emphasis on the second argument - the sanctions of the European Union, i.e. the European Communities, are dating back to a long time ago. It would not be necessary to interfere with May 31st 1992, since there have already been some affairs that have led to illegal wealth. Let's remember Dragutin Zelenovic and the high-speed railway project, when only Zelenovic's firm had the right to deliver gravel for those high-speed railways. Let's remember that Zelenovic was involved in an affair with the famous Borovic and that Borovic from the "Serbian Car" from Nis kidnapped some trucks. We had a great deal of traffic in the Serbian government, in the past term, over this Borovica, because some clan wanted to force him into this consortium that sought a concession to build the Belgrade-Novi Sad highway. To insisting on Serbian radicals, he was expelled from the consortium. (loud from the O.R.: No. It's not true, you don't know anything. Look at the logs. Now you have all the records in your hands and look at them. The Serbian government only approved the concession to the Belgrade Bank, and the Belgrade Bank subsequently introduced Borovica besides the Serbian government. Recently, Borovica made an agreement with DOS representatives to kick out the Belgrade Bank and to keep it as an executive. These are the things that, of course, would have to be explored to the end. I know reliably that the government's Committee on Business and Finance's insistence has been expelled from the consortium and is not signed with by the government. He was subsequently introduced by the Belgrade Bank by the government. That's the facts. You can check those facts. So, what's key here -- is there a good intention to investigate violations of the law or just to retaliately implement legal standards according to the political ideological criteria. Keep one more thing in mind, there can be no period of limitations in the tax law to be longer than the ageing period in Criminal Law. Tax law cannot prescribe a longer period of legal norm, but a criminal law. So don't be afraid of the Criminal Law, because by nature things in Criminal Law are the periods of obsolescence the longest, including that absolute period of 20 years. In this case, not one tax law can have a longer period to which its norms apply, but a criminal law. What's out of date under Criminal Law cannot be subject to a special tax law, a law that's only called tax. In fact, he's not tax, it's the law of ideological or political retribution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9342	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9343	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has a lot of logic in the proposal to make 31 May 1992 as a day that was a prelude to everything we've been through, but we can't accept something like that, because it would mean ignoring all the irregularities that have, in truth, been to a lesser extent, but have existed and been present since 1989. She wasn't chosen by accident in 1989. We are considering a loan for Serbia's rebirth and the way these funds have been spent and the irregularities that have been committed. I don't understand the opposition why she's running away from identifying those bad individuals, because it goes to everyone in favor of this society. Let's sanction whoever committed any abuse. The year 1989 was the year in which funds were collected through the Serbian Rebirth Loan. The year 1990 is the year in which large amounts of money without cover started and was also started with the problem of paying off old foreign currency savings. So, if we move to 1992, we are neglecting foreign savings and the Serbian Rebirth Loan. We don't want to do this, and that's why we define January 1, 1989 as the day from which the retroactive application of this law will begin. If the opposition has any concrete proposal, we are prepared to respect it as we have observed some amendments. You'll see in the debate. But I think that everyone is in favour of being seen as the government's sincere intention on January 1st 1989 to establish a single responsibility without the anthemation of the entire party organisations and state structures. If that is not the case, all parties will be responsible, there will be responsible leadership, and some who have left you in the meantime will avoid something that is certainly for the treatment of this law. So, on 1 January 1989, due to loans for Serbia's rebirth, due to foreign savings, due to the uncontrollable emissions of money launched in 1990, 31 May 1992 was merely an introduction to something that had existed in practice in itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9344	The word has been given by MP Dragan Tomic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9345	I don't agree with Mr. Jovanovic, but my thinking when I suggested this date is next. These things, mentioned by Mr Jovanovic, are for the treatment of criminal legislation, because there are members of laws in the area that speak of abuses, and when it comes to banks, when it comes to abuses in the area of loans for Serbia's rebirth. This is the time when a serious gray economy begins. From this date on, a serious gray economy begins. That was the point of this date, because in the positive Serbian legislation there are rules that can treat this kind of thing and not be bound by the application of this law, the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Serbia can treat this matter by other legislation, and a serious gray economy, has arisen from this period. I think that's what this treatment is supposed to be about. That's the only difference between dates and my understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9346	Since no one is applying for a word anymore, I am putting the amendments submitted by MP Dragan Tomic to the vote. Please vote. For 54, against 111, no one abstained, voted 24, a total of 189 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not in the O.R. There's a representative of the parliamentary group, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9347	Parliamentarian Petar Jojic's amendment also refers to the term that legislators awkwardly set as January 31st 1989. The question can be asked logically here, why they did not set a deadline for the adoption of the Sretenj Constitution in 1835, or perhaps a term for the adoption of the Vidovdan Constitution, or for the adoption of the first communist constitution on 31 January 1945. Because no loan law for the rebirth of Serbia was adopted on January 31st 1989. He was adopted that year, a little later, perhaps in the summer months, if memory serves me well. It doesn't matter either. There are many other things that are inconclusive, because in 1989 there was still SFRY. It's the time of the government of Ante Markovic. Ante Markovic, after a long-term hyperinflation that he caused himself, when the exchange rate changed rapidly from day to day at the expense of the dinar, seduced a solid course of dinar that amounted to six dinars for one mark, and then changed nine dinars for one mark. (From the O.R.: seven dinars for one brand. ) It doesn't matter, numbers don't matter, it's important. At that time, Ante Markovic, when the SFRJ foreign reserves amounted to about $10 billion, began to sell out foreign exchange reserves by printing dinars at lightning speed, and most of these dinars were sent to Slovenia and Croatia. Then the Slovenians and Croats bought the largest amount of foreign exchanges. They're getting ready to secede. The exchange rate on the official course simply cannot come under the influence of this law. Then why does this law apply to that period? MP Petar Jojic is demanding that the provision be changed, to set a term of 28 September 1990, when the current Serbian Constitution came into force. That would already make some sense if he didn't conflict with the terms of the Criminal Code. You keep running away from prosecution. It's much more difficult for the perpetrator of a particular delinquent, whether it's a criminal act, a crime or a crime, it doesn't matter, it's a delinquent, it's much harder for him to answer criminally than to answer by this law of yours. Whoever really needs to answer will prefer to accept this bill of yours, because you first give him a discount of 35% if he registers himself, no matter how much money he reports, and he still has the possibility of a private settlement with Minister Djelic and his, as this friend, Aleksandar Radovic, director of the Republic Public Revenue Administration. That's much more favourable than being prosecuted by a public prosecutor, so that a crime can be determined, so that it can be answered under that criminal act. So this law is more favourable for real criminals, but it is extremely unfavourable for those you intend to pursue by political or ideological criteria. That's why you're running away from prosecution. You're not interested in prosecution. What Dusan Mihajlović did and what I showed you earlier, and for what I have evidence, it is a crime. It's his crime, too, because he took that money from Jugopetrol, and the crime of whoever gave him that kind of money from Jugopetrol, because he gave it without any invoice, because he gave it to him without any contract, there's no legal basis for payment. He paid him as much money out of his eye as Dusan Mihajlovic needed. That's the point. You'd like to hide it from the public. And when it comes to criminal prosecution, it cannot be hidden from the public, because the trial must be public. You can't do it like you led to Radet Markovic, under a state secret, even though you did it against the law there. Here everything in the closed circle of people is done, Bozidar Djelic, Aleksandar Radovic, several members of the government, all implemented and no one knows anything. Make a deal like you did with the kidnapping of alleged financialist Milorad Miskovic, as he was kidnapped, gave between five and eight million marks, and was released. Dusan Mihajlovic promised... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... If the kidnappers don't find out, they'll resign. The deadline is up, and he can't stand the resignation, because he prefers a function more than a promise.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9348	Time and theme. Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9349	For us, this amendment is unacceptable, because it would practically inaugurate a principle that is in itself so illogical that we cannot support it. What are the rights and freedoms of the 1990 Constitution being reduced and sanctioned in relation to the Constitution of the time that preceded it, so that we should now be bound to that September 1990 and thus avoid the loan problem for Serbia's rebirth. It is interesting that opposition representatives are constantly avoiding something that is so clear and that stands in the light of this law. And it's about criminal responsibility. This law does not exclude criminal responsibility. This law deals with incomes, i.e. assets acquired by the use of special benefits, without establishing the existence of a criminal offence. Why today's opposition, which has been in power for ten years, who accuses us as it accuses, did not solve these problems the way any responsible authority solves, as we do. As always part of the opposition doesn't know, he didn't hear, he couldn't stop all those concrete examples of criminal activity, and today he's waving papers and doing some new affairs. Let criminal charges be filed, let anyone be held accountable. Let us determine the responsibility between the other and the harassment of the public in the way it often seems. Let's see who's got the house, see who's got the apartment, see who's got the place, see who's got the private company, see who's got everything and what.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9350	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Petar Jojic. For 49, there were no abstentions against 119, there was no vote of 23, out of a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Having adopted this amendment by the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word under this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9351	National MP Lazar Marjanski suggests that instead of 1989, it should be determined in 1988 that your law would be much clearer to everyone, to be more direct, to show that you are actually dating this law from the arrival of Slobodan Milosevic to power. Everything would be much clearer than January 1st 1989, because you dropped that argument that it was the date for the Serbian Rebirth Loan, since the loan was announced in half that year, and on January 1st, it's not safe. So, right away, you're saying that it's about a law that will punish anyone who has possibly acquired something, whether in a legal or illegal way at a time when Milosevic was in power, to be clear to the end, because you say it's not a crime, it's getting one-off, illegal, like this. This has to be a criminal act. And when you answer the opposition to criticism, your arguments are absolutely independent. Why? You're attacking an opposition that stands for prosecution. To him who is not a clear conscience, it only suits him as you formulated so that he may reason with you, that he may guess. The person whose conscience is pure is most suited to criminal prosecution, so that the criminal proceedings determine whether or not it is a criminal offence. What Cedomir Jovanovic said earlier was also not based on any argument. He says, if someone else has broken the regulation, then wrongly assigned an apartment or given an advantage, etc., it deprives the responsibility of the one who used it. That's not true. If someone broke the law by assigning an apartment, then the legal consequence is the annulment of the award of an apartment. If someone broke the background by giving money from the primary show, then money is taken away from whoever received it, regardless of his personal involvement in the violation of the law, but someone who had the money. This is the legal consequence of a conviction in criminal proceedings. As a legal consequence of the verdict in criminal proceedings, the measure of confiscation of the illegal property acquired, although one who is deprived of such property does not have to be a direct violation of the law, because someone can unlawfully acquire property, so it is prescribed to the nearest relative, to a friend, to this, to that, but in criminal proceedings it is determined that the property is illegally acquired and, of course, its fate is investigated with whom it has ended. This all involves criminal proceedings, so it's so much weirder that you're running away from prosecution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9352	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The president of the parliamentary group, Cedomir Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9353	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law does not exclude criminal responsibility, and every time someone thinks that the application of this law will exclude the possibility of criminal responsibility - they will be deceived. We just want this law to sanction those situations where the government's positions have been used to acquire property in a way that itself is not a crime, because what's wrong with giving someone a gift. Is that punishable by law? Sometimes it is, and sometimes it isn't. Did our authorities share gifts? It's common when two statesmen meet to exchange a ceremonial gift and do so in the past. That's what the local authorities did. If there is a criminal offence in this case, let the court find it, but if someone has received a gift that is not in itself, then this law will be applied, taxing what needs to be taxed, and when the court finds that there is a criminal liability, sanctions under the Criminal Procedure Act will be applied. It will not exclude each other, so if someone has acquired an apartment that apartment will immediately be taxed, and then it will be taken away, if some other laws are found to have been violated. So, no criminal responsibility is excluded, but privileges are sanctioned. Privileges that have their name and last name in concrete situations, both sides, and which bond between each other and today's opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9354	Since we are out of word, I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Lazar Marjanski. For 21, against 115, with 26 abstentions, 32 of the 194 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in Article 2. The draft law shall provide a feedback to the provisions of this Article. In accordance with Article 134(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 134 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, the National Assembly particularly decides whether there is a general interest in this feedback. The Finance Committee has assessed that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 2. The draft law, and I therefore put to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, contained in Article 2. Proposal for a law on the return destination of the provisions of this article, for which, according to the government's assessment, there is a general interest. For 119, against 52, the abstentions were not voted 24 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 2. It's a bill of law. National MP Milan Jankovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Please, the word has been made by MP Milan Jankovic, as the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9355	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, on the proposal for a law on one-off income tax and extra property acquired by the use of special benefits, in Article 3 of that law, following Article 1, a new position 2 is added, which reads as follows: "Under the special benefits of item 1 point. 1st and 2nd are not considered financial transactions made after the decision of the Federal Government or in accordance with the economic policy for the current year." The current views of 2nd and 5th become an integral part of points 3 and 6. It is unacceptable to consider, under special benefits, the use of primary emission funds or the purchase of foreign exchanges under the official course of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, if those transactions are carried out in accordance with the Government's decision or with an economic policy act for a given year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9356	When it's your turn, you'll be next. Is there anyone else applying for a word under this amendment? Here you are, Mr. Seselj, representative of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9357	I don't think it's any wonder that no DOS lawyer shows up on this matter for a pay phone. Only people who don't understand themselves right now show up with you DOSs, instead of the legal principles standing on their feet, actually right down to your head. Then here we can hear the head of your parliamentary group, Cedomir Jovanovic, who says - the first thing that was illegally acquired should be paid taxes, then taken away. It's a pearl that's really gonna pump, I guarantee it. I guess the first thing to do is to establish that it's illegally acquired, to impose sanctions, and then to take it away, and not to... (President: Mr Seselj, I did not give you the right to reply, but you have already called as president of the parliamentary group following Milan Jankovic's amendment. You should follow what I'm saying, try to understand what I'm saying, not interrupt me. (President: I'm trying, Mr. Seselj. Go back to the subject. ) You know, and whoever presides the session should be competent and understand what it is, and not someone who understands absolutely nothing, gives himself the right to interrupt the MP in a purely professional debate. This amendment shows that we actually have legal logic deep on our heads. Why? It refers to point 1, which says -- the use of primary and grey money emissions by financial transactions will come under the threat of taxation. Whoever wrote this bill thinks that the transaction itself is something negative. The transaction is every financial business between banks, between legal entities and so on. Whenever you operate on money, you do a certain transaction. It's about the money transaction. However, here, transaction entities can be private persons, can be physical and legal persons. When it comes to legal persons, they can be state and private. You don't make that difference in law anywhere. Why? Do as much public confusion as possible. It's the same for you when a transaction is built by a large social enterprise or a public enterprise and a private company is engaged in the transaction. It's exactly the same for you. It may be in court proceedings the same, but it cannot be from the aspect of the general social interests that every law must protect. Don't get into trouble if any transactions were necessary. If the government in one moment concluded, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, that primary money emissions, in a certain amount, were needed, for example, in the previous decades, the primary emissions were most carried out in June of the month when the harvest took place. The most common is the harvest payment from the primary show. That's what state policy was like. Such a decision was made by authority. The decision cannot be questioned retroactively after ten years. The decision could be sanctioned, punished only in some elections and punished in the elections. It is not now possible to question the post-festum of once concluded necessity or established necessity to perform, in a very specific matter, primary emissions. That's ridiculous. But the primary show could never be used to finance, to borrow or to place through appropriate private companies, and to trade firms. It always had to be a crime. It has to be sanctioned today. Even the political must be sanctioned, but you run away from it. You are running from the court of the public, you want the full procedure to be in your conspiracies, only for that reason you are bothered by the criminal proceedings that would precede the confiscation of illegally acquired property, so that everything can be conspiracies, so that by your criteria you can protect someone who belongs to you now, such as Dusan Mihajlovic, and that you rigorously punish someone who does not belong to you, and even after longer persuasion and persuasion, will not approach you. That's the essence of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9358	Mr Jankovic, just one notice for you, pursuant to Article 138(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly - the MP can no longer submit amendments to the same member of the bill, so that the two amendments that you have submitted to this same article, joined in one and the National Assembly, will be declared once. Is there anyone else applying for a word under this amendment? Here you are, Mr Dragan Tomic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, with timely authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9359	May I ask you, Madam President, to ask this group there to follow the Assembly, not to throw all the time. (President: I ask the People's Messengers not to disturb the speaker or to earn it. ) Mr Jankovic's amendment speaks of the time behind us. Of course, it wasn't all so ugly in the past tense, there were good government moves, or you think it was all ugly. Then I don't know how you looked forward to your kids, laughing, making birthdays, celebrating glory, and you admit only the time after October 5th. The amendment makes sense because it still says that the previous governments are at the beginning of each year, as is the government, so I hope that by changing the new government we will not return and erase some economic policy, some government that is not our will. I guess there are smart people in every government, so they've made some real moves, and the amendment is in this direction because in the previous period there were difficult situations that had to be regulated by the decisions of the federal government and the economic policy of one government and another. You know, for periods, I'm going back to the period of sanctions, and it seems to me that that time was a great time for primary money emissions, we've been in a hundred times in a situation where we can import oil. We know that for years the Sixth Fleet has held up a blockade of ships, so in various ways, via Bulgaria, Hungary, we have imported oil. The government had to intervene in the primary money emissions. Of course, she also had to buy foreign exchanges and buy foreign exchanges from citizens, and that amendment, Mr. Vukurovic, was meaningful, because it took money from exporters in the property of 10%. So some moves were extorted. We can't look at all that just black and white. That is why this amendment proposes that the part where government decisions, one and the other, and economic policies for that year, what was important, of particular importance to the citizens of Serbia, are the exception to the state of Serbia, regardless of whether it is a primary show, and we can also call it a gray emissions. The objective of the amendment is to treat that part of the decision fairly and exempt from the other part of which you say there were elements of the gray economy, of the use of special conditions of convenience, etc. But there was also a part that was real, that was important, that was important. I guess we can't treat every government decision right now with the element of exploiting the gray economy, if we've imported drugs, oil and who knows what we've had to import, that I'm not talking about a piece that covers only decisions of the federal government, and we know that only the federal government has imported goods that are important to the Yugoslav Army, the militia, etc. Maybe there's this part that we need to treat in a special way. That is the essence of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9360	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Milan Jankovic. For 52, against 117, one abstention, was not voted 28, out of a total of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9361	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 consisting of two parts. The first part is the wording adding to the existing point one point 6, the second part to adding a new point to point one. In point 6, I propose that the existing item 6 of Article 1 be completed with the following text after the word "income", "using the means which the legal person carries out through the traffic of goods, whose basic change has not been registered in its business books, and the payment has been made past the jury's account". The need for this text addendum to the existing article 6 is found in what I wanted to supplement through the next explanation. It is known, ladies and gentlemen, that some legal persons have performed goods trafficking contrary to the law. If you know this, that traffic is not registered in business books and the collection of such traffic is carried out, it is provided by a jury account. This avoids certain taxes and contributions and creates a distorted picture of the business of a legal person. Such funds build or buy luxury houses and apartments, or buy expensive cars and other luxury, whose value exceeds the annual amount of traffic registered through a jury account. If the legislator's intensities were, then this text supplement goes in that direction. In the second part of this amendment, I suggested adding a new point that reads "abuses in the process of turning demand into actions between creditors and debtors". The explanation of such an addition of a new point in this attitude is as follows. It is known, and to us Serbian radicals, that lately we have cases where creditors opt to turn their claims into actions and thus become co-owners, i.e. shareholders of the previous debtor. At first glance, everything's fine. However, when the claim structure is analysed, it generally appears that the claim is dominated by charged interest, as an expression of agreed green interest. That's an explanation why I submitted this amendment. That argument, which the government said didn't accept this amendment, I'll read it, and you'll see that there's no excessive sense of reason that the government gave. By reason of the government that it does not accept my amendment, it is said - the amendment is not accepted because the essence of the amendment is already contained in the law. And I wanted the essence of the law to be complemented by this amendment and further clarified, because it's obvious, when you read Article 3, that it's not even in point 6, and that's why you're proposing an extension in this text part, and that this point that I've proposed to expand from the points offered by the Government, and for that, apart from the technical and text works, it is essential, not as the Government has explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9362	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? There's a word, Mr. Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9363	The amendment of National MP Bozidar Vujic further points to the grotesqueness of the legal project that was under way by the Serbian government. Those who wrote this law did not know that financial documentation in our country was kept for the longest time in 10 years, except for investment documentation. The legal obligation is 10 years. Then how can this law apply to this matter for a period of 12 years? You're prescribing a standard that is known to be unapplicable. Now it will be determined who used funds from an unrepentant market 12 years ago. How? It's impossible. Secondly, after 12 years to determine who charged the funds based on certain claims, which he did not implement through the books -- how. If it wasn't in the books, and if there's no obligation to keep records for more than 10 years or on any matter, unless it's an investment documentation, how can it be determined? It's impossible. It is also impossible to implement this point 6 in practice until a register of cash registers is introduced in all shops, then until all salaries are paid through current accounts, ana in cash and so on. And you know how unrealistic it is to expect in our country for a long period of time. So it's impossible to control it in practice, and then the question is why is the legal norm. If someone sells 100 kilos of potatoes today and buys something he needs for that potato right now, they don't run through their books, how can any inspector determine that? To come to the store to find out there's no 100 kilos of potatoes? That's funny. It's carried out right through the write-off -- potatoes broke. Someone's not gonna keep that potato to show Djelic's inspector -- here, rots that potato, and that's why it's not sold. Do not enter into laws anything that is impossible to apply in practice. And yet I insist that all laws have to be written by real lawyers, not trained lawyers or people who have no idea about law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9364	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I would like to put the amendment tabled by MP Bozidar Vujic. For 54, against 120, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 19, out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Djura Lazic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go. There's a word from MP Djura Lazic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9365	Dear fellow Members and People's MPs, my amendment concerns Article 3(1), point 7. In the amendment, I propose that point 7 be deleted from the Bill's proposal, for the following reasons: according to the Stock Reserve Act, supply of goods reserves and purchases of goods without public bidding could only be carried out on the basis of the Government's decision, and this is the document in accordance with economic and social policy for a given year. Therefore, such a transaction cannot be subject to the use of such an advantage. We must bear in mind that each government brings in a specific programme, or development, or an economic and social programme. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of National Unity, had its own economic and social programme, and due to special conditions, the difficult conditions in which the state was, due to sanctions, due to the blockade, had to have its own economic and social programme, to protect the social situation of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In this context, the Customs Reserve Directorate was under government control and the products obtained by the government's special decisions were distributed in a balanced manner throughout the Republic, all in order to provide citizens more evenly. Companies that used goods from commodity reserves used at a certain price and placed the polimitated price, all in order to preserve the social status of citizens. That's why I don't think these companies should be covered by this law. This would also apply to companies that used primary emission funds, and these funds are adequately invested in reviving production, preserving businesses, expanding capacities, modernising production, and all of this in the interest of those workers, who work there, and in the interests of the state. It would therefore be absurd for these companies and for the users of these funds to be subject to this extra profit law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9366	Does anyone else sign up for a word? He has the word Mr Branislav Ivkovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9367	The governance of the state, ladies and gentlemen, is a set of serious and very responsible activities, which, among other things, require a great deal of knowledge and experience. Especially in the terms of the embargo -- which all speakers, on behalf of the DOS majority here, forget to mention, that it has also caused many illegal and criminal activities -- is even harder to run the state. The goods reserves in Serbia therefore had a special position and special responsible activity, which is -- since there was an embargo, which was imposed on this country, not only by imports of energy, but also by interrupting all financial flows, by disabling the imports of repromary, by disabling the export of goods, in such a situation, the aim of which the embargo was also the criminalisation of society, and the creation of soybeans of particularly wealthy people, which are not covered at all by this legal project, which the DOS government proposes. This strain, especially rich people, who are not subject to this tax law at all, because these types of extra profits of their criminal order are not covered, had a special game with the market, with the social situation and social distress of Serbian citizens. They caused deliberate shortages of various products, from sugar, oil, flour, over meat, to many other products. Indeed, the Serbian government, keeping under full control of the stock reserve, has given orders to stock reserves very often to throw out on the market goods, which are deliberately deficient, in order to increase prices and to generate extra profits, which you do not tax with this bill. And these companies, which came in that position, that at these privileged prices they buy, but also with a very small margin they sell goods to Serbian citizens, tasking the Serbian government to stabilise the market, when it comes to the product or the type of service, should not be subject to any extra profit and under this tax law. Unfortunately, you are chasing them, those who have fulfilled the government's task, to place goods from stock stores on the market and prevent exactly those that you do not pursue by your law to make malfeasances. Now, you should never, and that is the essence of this amendment, to succumb to the law of special taxation. The other thing was, there was a crime scene. If there were any of these criminal acts, gentlemen, you have Serbia's judicial system, let Serbia's judicial system, those involved in crime, be found. Criminal law provides, if necessary, for confiscation of property, so let them confiscate. But in this way, to make those who, according to the Serbian Government's task of the goods reserve, performed a plasma and even distribution of the deficit goods and thus prevented the black market, which you do not pursue, is indeed hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9368	The word is Mr. Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9369	The extraction of goods from stock reserves based on a decision by the Republic Directorate, without public bidding, could only be carried out in exceptional cases and exclusively on the basis of the Serbian government's decision. In any case, when it is not about the Serbian government's decision, it is a criminal offence, and I guess it can be very easy and simple to investigate and find out who did the crime. That's where the crime was committed by the one who made the decision to deliver the goods and the one who took the goods. Both were involved in one crime. Why are you running away from that? In the past term, it has never happened that the Serbian government has made a decision to deliver goods from a commodity reserve to a private firm. It's always been big public or social enterprises, supply carriers. There was this abuse, but only when those companies took over the goods, by bringing some of the goods out of public transport, out of official traffic, to the black market. Now, that's what was always the hardest to determine, and that's what interfered with the regular and timely supply of strategic food products. Now, in that previous period, as Lutra received certain goods from the stock reserves, you can also determine whether, on the basis of the government's decision -- I don't know if there were any government decisions -- or whether it was without a government decision, in a direct agreement with the then director of the Stock Reserve Directorate. Let it be investigated, but each case is individually investigated, and cannot go through without prosecution. Therefore, there is no need for this item to stand in this law, in Article 3, paragraph 7, absolutely no need. It's either a crime, or it's not. If it wasn't a crime, no one could use it in private. If the social or state-owned company had any business benefit, how are you going to tax it now? It used to be a supply carrier, it was these big companies, first of all in the social sector, it used to be a supply shortage, now its margin is reduced, taxes and so on, well, now you're going to punish him for what happened in the previous period. Well, you'd better close down those social and public enterprises than punish them. Lock them up immediately, because this is motivated by your desire to conduct a different human policy, so whoever you do not wish to be guided by this law, and to eliminate it, and whoever it is you wish to keep silent. And this situation that you produce with such a provision, it says that first of all, a register of those who acted against the law, committed crimes - did not do, so only when the register is known, when it is seen, when the public has the opportunity to comment on that register, to determine legal norms and to comply with those legal norms. Like this, huge powers all over a variety of situations, a variety of issues, a very limited small group of people over whom the public will not be able to exercise any control.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9370	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendment tabled by MP Djura Lazic. For 52, against 114, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, out of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment to be legally possible, so this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vera Markovic, who made the same withdrawal in writing. I find Mrs. Vera Markovic's amendment has been withdrawn. National MP Ljubomir Mucic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9371	Madam Chairman, you don't get off that chair for two and a half hours, so I don't know if you really like it or watch that chair after yesterday's Socialist Party initiative. (President: Mr. Mutsic, you've come out as an applicant for the amendment. ) Before warning, it would be good if you had really built the authority of the chairman on one of these procedures as of this morning, not so far. We're still on the same track, so we have a little more respect for each other. I have submitted several amendments to this law. The first in a series of amendments is the amendment to Article 3 which consists of two parts. The first part is the erasure of the existing point 14 which reads: "Building a representative residential, i.e. a business facility whose total surface is larger than prescribed and permitted". Instead, to enter a new text, which reads: "The purchase of a larger number of dwellings of other tenants or owners by real estate agencies or individuals, on the basis of various contracts, for example, a life support contract, under the conditions applicable to those holders, i.e. owners". First, I wrote this text in the light of the fact that, in the light of this law, it says that these 19 conditions, which the Government had predicted, are not the end and that this list is not closed, and that the most common cases of transactions from which the extra income of these 19 is being taxed are listed. For that very reason, I have also suggested this new point of the 14th that I have read and which I will explain briefly. Indeed, it was my goal that those agencies that, through the purchase of dwellings for tenants, through the visions of life support or in some other ways came to apartments cheaply, and sold them at market price, that they had achieved more extra property and greater extra income than these persons mentioned in these 19 points. Is it more logical that for 10-15 apartments someone earns an extra profit or extra property of about 300, 400 and 500 thousand marks, and someone who builds a representative facility up to 480 or up to 400,000 marks, should not pay taxes on extra property and extra profits, or how is this magnificent, representative object greater than prescribed and than what the building permit says? Should such an object be subject to taxation? What if the owner of the facility did not comply with the building permit, did not pay the municipality compensation for the construction land, and if the owner cannot legalise the facility under these conditions, but that part of the building must collapse? Did he make extra property or made extra property and extra profits to the one who still owned or sold 10,12, 13,14 other people's apartments? I think that this list is tended to be made by the government, that partial solutions that are not precise enough and that the objectives, that is, these conditions are only timed on certain people from the government and from the ruling party. What's next after paying this tax on extra profit and extra property? This extra property and extra profit will continue to be used by individuals. What's going on with that property? What about those who today, in some of these ways, are rich and earning property? Don't say it's not here today. I will say in later amendments, read and prove what you want to prove - that the previous government has impoverished the people. This today's power also continues under the same laws as the previous party, according to the same rules on buying-in prices of agricultural products, electricity, etc. I'll explain that later.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9372	Mr. Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9373	The provision referred to in point 14 of Article 3 is completely incompatible with the content of this legislative project. The only sanction for whoever built a representative facility larger than or prescribed is destruction. There are no other sanctions in our legal order. Of course, breaking down at the expense of whoever built it. Since there are already several hundred thousand otherwise illegally built objects in our country, objects that are largely illegal and objects that have exceeded, their length, height, surface, etc. what's allowed. This matter can only be regulated by the Law of Legalization, not by this law. The law on legalisation to prescribe conditions in which objects can be legalised and what is all due to the state to reconcile the one who approaches the legalisation of the facility. (A voice from the O.R.: "A, Mom"? Don't mention my mother's house, for nothing, because that document you showed here was a useful permit. The use of permission is the last document to be obtained during the construction of a residential facility. Therefore, do not be fooled that anything unclean can be found. You can only invent that when you make something up, you run away from controversy and exchange arguments, because you yourself are aware that you are making it up. Furthermore, here it is, in this amendment, something that the creator of the legal project deliberately did not want to include. We have in our legal practice two cases, and here the applicant of the amendment didn't cover everything. He dropped something that was very important and could be taken under this article, which is when many lawyers bought apartments in which they lived. protected tenants. They bought it from the owners at really great prices. A law passed about nine, ten years ago, obliged local self-government authorities to provide housing for tenants to return to the owners, only where ownership was not transferred. There are a huge number of such apartments, now owned by a large number of lawyers. There was a huge profit, but in practice that profit is difficult to make. They, of course, abused the lack of thought of owners that they would never come into possession of property, and they bought the apartments for a bagatella. On the other hand, the state does not allow them to come into possession of that property either, they do not follow the law that is still in force. Some municipalities have solved this problem long ago, some still haven't. When it comes to those who make such random agreements on life support, so as not to immediately transfer ownership and not to pay 3% tax on real estate sales, there are such lawyers in the Serbian government. You can already recognise Justice Minister Vladan Batic, whose three such cases I know about in the most attractive Belgrade zones, such as Dedinje and Senjak. Why did the billmaker not include this and why does the government refuse to accept the amendment of MP Mucic? That's why some members of the government were immediately ranked. That's the point. (From the O.R.: Former Government. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9374	Is anyone else applying for a discussion? Mr. Ivkovic, as president of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9375	Today, it is very difficult for everyone, especially the builders, to talk about apartments, as housing was absolutely dead during the DOS regime in power in Serbia. All I can say is that construction in a teacher's settlement on block 32 as it stopped on September 24th, so the crane didn't move for a micron or any brick added. Eighty apartments for young scientists and artists of Belgrade came under the roof in just two and a half months. As far as housing is concerned, it is difficult to talk about apartments in a situation where we are talking about the amendment to the law, in which the legislator gave himself the right to assess whether, and when the law was respected, there was extra profit and whether there was extra profit when the law was not respected, he gave himself the right to judge it himself, to be a mother, a stepmom, or to be well-intentioned, and to be an unspeakable, or to be a political, unthinkable enemy. I saw that yesterday by the reactions of certain ladies MPs from DOS-enemy. That the text of the proposed law is discriminatory and that it is aimed at eliminating and compromising political opponents, i.e. non-insistant, Madam Chairman, do you notice how the ladies are a little more noisy? Don't you want to warn them?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9376	Please don't throw it away, to allow Mr. Ivkovic to be able to present his exposure uninterrupted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9377	The illegal extra-income and illegal extremities were not obtained in the residential area as indicated in these points. They only mention the purchase of an apartment larger than the one belonging to the criteria for the assignment by the elected, appointed or appointed official, the political party's function, etc. Read, mostly SPS functionors. However, illegal extra income is being obtained in the residential area, my dear gentlemen, in the following way: by replacing a larger social apartment for a smaller one, with high compensation. There are examples of individuals replacing apartments of 120, 150, 200 square meters for a garage to benefit 200, 300,000 German marks. That's not what you covered with this law. By selling housing rights, that's what it was, and for the last 10 years, you haven't included them in the law either. Unintentional use of housing loans to build houses and apartments for vacation. You haven't called any of them here, my dear gentlemen, because your red scarf is a socialist and a functioner in front of your eyes. How much credit for building apartments was spent on the cottages, the holiday house, it was a terrible extra profit, it doesn't interest you. Using more than one social apartment and renting these apartments and apartments in private property, and with high rents, there is no such thing as either. By liberalising real estate traffic, many agencies have been created, many have come to not only apartments, but also locals. They made purchases, as MP Mucic suggests under a life support company, and apartments and bars, use them, betray them, become owners. None of it's here in this law. We're simply trying to do something with this amendment that's extremely difficult and impossible to fix, at least a little bit to fix, so we're showing that you're just chasing an institutionalized form of getting extraprofit you forgot everything. You have brought into a much worse position someone who has worked honestly and honestly, has performed his job, has been the director of the company, has been required fit for his company, from his company, or from the state for a job that he worked either as a militiaman, or as a judge, or as an assistant minister, has received an apartment, by law with the right to rent indefinitely. By law, he bought the apartment, you're taxing him now, and you're not doing anything to those who were involved in smuggling, mafia activities, they've raised not one, but 10 houses, they've raised pools, tennis courts. You don't do anything, and you know why, because every one of us has a right to suspect that they are either yours or they've funded you by the outside.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9378	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendment tabled by MP Ljubomir Mucic. For 49, against 111 abstentions, there were no, no 25 votes, a total of 185 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, George Mamul, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment to Articles 11, 15 and 16, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. National MP George Mamula, at the session of the Legislative Committee, gave up part of the amendment relating to the addition of point 20. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present in the O.R. Does anyone else want a word? Yeah. Here you are, Mr. Vojislav Seselj has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9379	The amendment of Bozidar Vučurovic concerns the purchase of foreign exchanges from natural and legal persons under the official course of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, with us already having a debate on the issue under the amendments concerning Article 1. In this case, Article 3 specifically formulates all cases that would come under the influence of this law. One of the cases is precisely the one that potentiates Bozidar Vucurovic with its amendment, and I think the amendment would have to be accepted. First, because there was no exchange rate at the time of this law. It is pointless that the law speaks of a market rate when the market rate did not exist. Why he didn't exist, it's a second question and it's not legal, it's political. The law is primarily a legal act. Since there was no foreign exchange market, since there was only one official price for the exchange, only at that official price could the exchange be sold to the National Bank and the foreign exchanges could be bought from the National Bank. If someone from the National Bank had been selling a black exchange rate, they'd be doing a crime and they'd have to go to jail. If there's someone who's been selling on the black course -- to establish that he's going to jail, because those crimes aren't out of date yet. If the National Bank sold foreign exchanges in the official course, because it only had to sell according to that course, the question arises whether it sold to those legal entities that she could even sell or sell to natural and legal persons she couldn't sell to. It's a typical criminal legal issue. If the National Bank sold regularly, in accordance with the law, foreign exchange rates according to the only existing course, which is official, then it is pointless to kidnap someone today. These are mainly social and state-owned enterprises because they have been taking foreign exchanges that were necessary for the import of certain, primarily strategic goods, energy, medicines and the like. In cases where the National Bank sold foreign exchanges against the applicable rules in prison, one should also go to the person who approved such a sale of foreign exchanges and one who thus bought foreign exchanges. It's pointless that the law contains as standard as you predicted. What you're running from criminal law is a question I'm going to ask you all day long. What are you running from a criminal trial? What are you afraid of?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9380	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments tabled by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. For 51, against 104 abstentions, there was no vote of 28, out of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9381	I'm suggesting a breach of Article 142. Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, someone else was in charge of the session. It's the amendment of MP George Mamula. As we were informed by your co-worker who replaced you, the original amendment was accepted by the Government and became an integral part of the Government's proposal, and then you informed us that Ambassador Mamula at the Committee's session had given up part of his amendment. There is no such solution in our Rules of Procedure. It does not exist because you have changed the Rules of Procedure and ordered here that only one amendment can be submitted to one member of the law, so that when one member of the law is on two pages of the bill such as Article 3, then the MP can only cover everything with one amendment and cannot partially give up after that part of the amendment, because it is then a new amendment. So, MP Mamula no longer had the right to submit a new amendment, the law was not an emergency procedure, the deadlines for amendments had passed. He could either give up the entire amendment or accept that amendment as an integral part of the government's proposal. Later when the government accepted the amendment no longer had the amendment or MP Mamula, he automatically became an integral part of the bill and you are now bringing us here into one legal nonsense, that the Assembly here, not at all, accepted that everything that had been done for the amendments or parts of Mr Mamula's amendment, had all been provided for by the Rules of Procedure. It's not. I would ask you to consult, to return to the amendment of Ambassador Mamula. I don't think he can give up anymore, since the government has accepted his proposal. An amendment only, with all three attitudes, can be included in the bill. There's no way he can just be part of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9382	I remind MP Tomislav Nikolic of the rights, obligations and duties of MPs from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Articles 204 to 213, with the fact and the explanation that he intervened on a procedurally completed matter and the decision taken in the National Assembly, and that he was present in the hall when the event and part of the procedure took place. What was found in that part of the session, the MP is obliged, if he sees a procedural error or error in some of the bodies, working bodies or working bodies of the Government of Serbia, to intervene during the procedure. Since no one made a comment to the National Assembly when it was read how the procedurally solved problem about the amendment of MP George Mamula, then I believe that your intervention in the Rules of Procedure is now groundless. Do you want us to vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 142? I find that the MP did not declare whether he wished to vote on the violation of Rules of Procedure in Rule 142. National MP Vojislav Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure. (The chairman did not turn on the speaker microphone)
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9383	You, Mrs. Komic, have now said by interpreting the Rules of Procedure that MPs have some obligation that is not intended for the Rules of Procedure. It is the right, not the obligation of the MP to intervene by referring to the Rules of Procedure if he considers that the procedure has been violated. Whenever the MP intervenes, if his intervention is appropriate, if it is indeed a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you are obliged to do everything in your power to bring matters under the rule of law. The legal situation is only what is in line with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and the provisions of the Constitution in this case. If the objection of the MPs is appropriate here, regardless of when it is spoken, if the law is not yet fully voted, you are required to respect that remark and to act accordingly, to remove irregularity and to strictly undermine the full procedure under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, not to teach the MP when he should have said anything. He could have just voted on the law as a whole to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. If the advertising is established, it is then questioning the vote of law until the breach of the Rules of Procedure is resolved.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9384	In an explanation of the statement of objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, I have given an explanation to section 204 to 213, relating to the rights and duties of MPs. The word "debt" and the word "obligation," it's possible that you're right, that it's not the same, in what my word is, my dictionary is. So if we participate in the work of the National Assembly, then we have rights and obligations, not just rights. Once again, will I ask the People's MP if he wants the National Assembly to declare its violation of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9385	You see, we're discussing something we shouldn't discuss. You didn't put anything to the vote, you realized that it had become an integral part of the bill and that I had reached the pay phone at that hour, you could have said - excuse me, Mr. Nikolic, it's already been established. Whether it was established a minute before or a minute after, that doesn't mean anything. I'm not suggesting at all whether I was able to find out in time, I suggest that you, without the Assembly, have made one decision past the Rules of Procedure and that part of the law will be in that part of the mole and illegally, have been made in an illegal manner. It's as if you've voted here with 30 MPs to such a provision, it would be fate. Your finding is as if it was voted and I no longer even make a remark that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, because you say the Assembly has found it. The congregation cannot determine anything that does not conform to the Rules of Procedure. It's not the right of the Parliament. Don't put that on the vote. You're just proving that you want to carry out the terror of the majority, when you have no further arguments. The arguments here are quite clear. The MP has the right to amend, he has submitted the amendment, and the government has accepted his amendment. He could have given up that amendment after the government's consent. The government has no right to accept part of the amendment, it accepts the amendment or rejects it. There are no parts of the amendments in our Rules of Procedure. It's your fault. I repeat, to one member of the law you should have left an opportunity to submit more amendments, to every position, to every point, so that the government says, at point one we accept, at point 3 we do not accept. I don't want you to plead at all, do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9386	Since it is an additional explanation of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 142, as quoted by the MP, who would be the basis for the amendment of MP George Mamula in a law currently on the agenda, it is my duty to clarify. The amendment submitted by MP Gjorge Mamula to Article 3 of point 11, point 15, point 16 and point 19. The Government and the Financial Committee have adopted the amendment to Article 3 of point 11, point 15 and point 16, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The government, and even these responsible committees of the National Assembly, did not accept part of the amendment at point 19. In consultations with MP George Mamul, he gave up part of his amendment. National MP Tomislav Nikolic is right to comment on how the amendment is submitted to the law and how amendments to the law are not accepted or accepted, in relation to the working bodies of the National Assembly or the Government. We have a choice to agree that we understand what this is about and move on to the course of the session, or that the National Assembly is voting again on the part of the amendment. It is out of process, but to know what it is or to resolve this problem at a special session of the National Assembly of Serbia's Legislative Committee. I wouldn't just want to remain vague. These are the arguments of the chairman. I believe there is no dispute over what the MP with these amendments wanted, what the government accepted, what the Legislative Committee evaluated. If there is a dispute, when it comes to the Assembly, then we can decide afterwards. Do you agree to continue your work? National MP Vojislav Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9387	You, Mrs. Komic, have found that the dispute exists. The dispute is objective and therefore it would be necessary to declare the Legislative Committee previously. You can take a break early, and the afternoon part of the session will also start a little early so we don't lose our jobs, but don't go any further until the basic dispute is cleared up. The dispute is serious in its nature, without the opinion of the Committee of the Assembly, could not be declared. Let the Legislative Committee sit down, let it declare its position, and then let the position of the Legislative Committee be heard without being here auctioning and voting, that they actually prevail here, that those who have no idea what is being debated here, take advantage of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9388	The Legislative Committee considered this amendment and it assessed it legally and in accordance with the law, which is its jurisdiction. So, if there is no more uncertainty, does the Assembly agree that we continue to work on the amendments? National MP Vojislav Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9389	You are now, Mrs. Comic, in contradiction. A moment ago, you expressed one attitude here, and now the other. The MP can't withdraw part of the amendment. He can do the whole amendment. He withdraws part of the amendment, and the government accepts the amendment. This contradiction must be clarified by the Legislative Committee. Did the MP and when he withdrew the entire amendment or half of the amendment, or a quarter of the amendment, how, by what attitude, on what basis? You've just found out that there's a contradiction, and now you're giving up that contradiction, as better things put under the carpet, no one will see it, but things will clear up to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9390	When I think there's a contradiction, you have no doubt, then I say it and say it, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have a problem, we have a contradiction. It didn't occur to me to say something like that, I just don't want to leave any ambiguity about the flow, the procedural flow of this amendment. Considering that I am obliged to remind MPs of a possible procedure, I have said possible ways not to leave any ambiguity in this National Assembly as to how points 11, point 15 and point 16 of Article 3 were adopted and not adopted at point 19. That is exactly what the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia considered legally possible. If we're clear now, can we continue our work? Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9391	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of this kind of Rules of Procedure, I've had to treat two completely different things that appear in this bill, so I'm going to try to explain both. I, first of all, envisaged the correspondence of point 20 in Article 3, which would be classified as special advantages, i.e. as a special advantage, and purchase without public bidding of immovableity in the state property, city, construction or agricultural land in the state or social property by the elected, appointed, appointed functionator, political party officials, members of his family and members of his household under Article 6 of this Act. During the period during which the Serbian Radical Party was a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we had a big debate in this National Assembly with current Deputy Prime Minister Joseph Kass, who acquired huge assets using the privilege of being the president of the municipality of Subotica. He even bought huge land that would only have value for a few years when the Kelebija border crossing was built and when he was on the highway to Hungary. He knew exactly what the urban plan was and only went to that country, in the name of his daughter and other members of his family bought a huge country and the country was waiting for her to jump when she was bought for construction. On the other hand, many old houses in Subotica, old households, bought on behalf of their family members. We've proved it to him here, even with a whole list of immovableities, a list of cadastrian plots he bought. He was in opposition back then. He's in power now. I consider this one of the most serious types of crime that could have happened to us, which is that people who are directly concerned about how they're going to live in the country, people who care about the development of the municipality, the republic or the federal state, have information about what's going to develop and run, like before in the Wild West, to blackmail, threats, abductions, lies, come into possession of real estates that will later rise in value. This, for example, was just one example. There are such examples throughout Serbia, but then, Deputy Prime Minister Vojislav Seselj held an almost all-day debate with MP Kasa. It should be another contribution to you to have corrupt ministers and vice-presidents in the government and that MP Stevo Kesejić was brought to the brink of death yesterday only because he said so. And, just because you didn't like it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9392	I hope you'll be in good health, but I still remind you...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9393	There's nothing you can do for my health...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9394	... to treat yourself politely and...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9395	... Don't be afraid. I'm good, which is what I want for you, one foot and a half and a hundred pounds of body weight...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9396	We share the weight. I'm a little lower, but I'd still be praying for polite treatment when it comes to grading...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9397	I see we're about the same weight. Congratulations on your weight. They say "not a female until it's a watermelon." So, ladies and gentlemen, the second part of the amendment refers to these so-called so-called. ... Don't make me laugh... representative facilities to which the billing officer has allocated a value of 500 thousand marks. Tobož up to 500,000 marks are not representative, and beyond that they are and there I have only predicted one more circumstance, that it is not the basis for legalisation or that it is not the basis for the destruction of a built-up facility, so let it be representative, if legalisation is carried out, if the facility is built with a building permit. Why would you go to the point where someone might take it down on a man, take it away from him, and I've heard that even after paying taxes, there's going to be a withdrawal of property that's even legally acquired. I think there was another way to trace people who were enormously rich by using special benefits, by not reporting some of the revenues they were obliged to, but it's really amazing how much the parliamentary majority allows all decisions of the former governments not to apply. How much it allows one in the democratic world to open an unknown system for the new government to say - all decisions made by the previous government, within its jurisdiction, are no longer valid. I was a member of the federal government. We gave foreign exchanges per course for importing drugs. I really can't imagine that now you'll have to pay taxes to those who got foreign exchanges to import drugs, drugs imported, and citizens have 10 times as cheap as today, that's to say that it was one inhumane move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9398	Do MPs want a word? Please, MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9399	I understand why the government refuses to accept the amendment of MP Tomislav Nikolic. For the same reasons why he is deaf to all arguments by the Serbian Radical Party against this law, which leaves his hands free from one narrow circle of people to resolutely measure and weigh obligations towards the country of individual personalities, but according to ideological and political similarities. This is all material (mainly held in the hands of material) relating to the purchase of 14.5 ha city building land in the municipality of Subotica, which the current Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Joseph Kasa sold to his daughter. His daughter's name is Hyde King. While he was president of the municipality, and here I would correct Tomislav Nikolic, he was not an opposition but a government in Subotica. And then his daughter passed it on to her brother, and Father Joseph Kasa has the right to enjoy life. You're refusing to put this under tax as an extra profit. And this is pure crime. You know, we didn't move this when we were in the Serbian government out of me until the end of vague reasons. The Socialists were painful to Joseph Kasa. They must have counted that it was possible for him to achieve something or not to come from the West to oppress members of national minorities, even if one of them took 14.5 ha of the state country, and now that Joseph Kasa had a nice anchor in the government of Serbia, and now he would tear his hair to four in the case of political opponents, but in his case, he had no idea that he would agree to accept this amendment and to tax those 14.5 ha of the country of city building land he had taken in Subotica. This is where Minister Djelic should be... Minister Bozidar Djelic, I am speaking to you, Minister Djelic, I insist as a People's MP that you, on the matter of Joseph Kasa, come forward before parliament - what about his 14.5 ha country taken from the municipality of Subotica. If you don't come forward here in front of parliament, I'll think you're solidarity with this Casino kidnapping. All documents exist in the Serbian government and the finance ministry. It was also on the government's board. It was discussed here in the Assembly. Express your position - what to do with the 14.5 ha country that Joseph Kasa, then president of the Subotica municipality, kidnapped from the state, transferred to his daughter, and maintained the right to life-long fruiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9400	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments tabled by MP Tomislav Nikolic. For 59, against 96, the abstentions of 7, did not vote 25, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd Amendment (with correction) was submitted by MP Pal Shandor. Since the amendment and corrections have been submitted, there is no uncertainty as to what the amendment is, and what is the correction, the amendment submitted by MP Pal Shandor reads: Article 3. paragraph 1 adds point 20) which reads: "20) purchase of city-building or agricultural land, which was in social property by the elected, appointed or appointed person, or functioner of local self-government, and members of his family, when only one person participated in the auction. "The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal, so this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. (The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj, asks for a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9401	If the government has accepted the corrected amendment of MP Pal Shandor, then he does not have the right to speak about the amendment, the amendment is already an integral part of the government's proposal. That's what the Rules of Procedure is like. If you want a special Pal Shandora, as a special honor, to give the word, I agree with that, I will not oppose it. But then to say you're doing it beyond the Rules of Procedure, as a special honor, you'd have the right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9402	Thanks to the MP for realizing that it is legally possible to put the corrected amendment in an integral part of the text of the law, on the basis of the Government's decision What about the basis of the replica? [[National Ambassador Pal Shandor seeks word, replica]] I'd like to beg, MP. (The People's Messenger Pal Shandor, from the O.R., mentioned me. He didn't mention you in an ugly context, on the contrary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9403	The essence of what the government has accepted, Mr. Seselj, is better than what Tomislav Nikolic has suggested, because he suggested that it should only be if there was no bidding, and there are cases where bids were fixed, agreed, for example, on Flowers 1994, etc. Therefore, the amendment that the government has accepted is more severe than what you have suggested. This is just for the public and so there's no confusion. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9404	He has the word Mr. Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9405	Before you gave your word to Pal Shandor, you broke the Rules of Procedure again, and you brought the confusion here, so it turned out, according to your words, that the government had accepted the original amendment, so that after the government's acceptance, Pal Shandor had made a correction. That's what your words were, and then you gave me a little bit of credit for that aspect. As far as I'm aware, the Government has accepted the corrected text of the Pal Shandor amendment, and therefore, the amendment could no longer be discussed and you had no right to give Mr. Pal a word. I just want your violation of the Rules of Procedure to be determined, or I'm very glad that Mr. Pal Shandor got his word, because he brought some information here, which I didn't know about, back in 1994. He didn't mention his name, but it's like he drew it here. [[National Ambassador Pal Shandor requests replica]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9406	National MP Vojislav Seselj warned that the chairman broke the Rules of Procedure. I'd just ask her to supplement - by which member, so I can ask if she wants the Assembly to vote? There's a word from MP Pal Shandor. The congregation may be led astray by a lack of clarification. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9407	Dear colleagues, I submitted the amendment in the original text on 23.04.2001, at 14.20, and then, due to the technical error (written in the letter I informed), I only added - 25.04.2001, at 16.00. Therefore, I did not change my amendment, but because of the technical error, the typing, that amendment was properly formed, and it was not after the government's report that she accepted my amendment. So much, the correctness works.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9408	Thank you. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9409	I'd like to say a few words first, Madam Chairman, to remind the secretary, who laughs all the time, when someone comes out of front of the Serbian Radical Party, and by article 34, you know what's allowed of him and what's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9410	Mr. Marjanski, please do not take the mental moods of the MPs into the content of your discussion as a submission to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9411	Whether I take it or not, that's another thing. I just wanted to say a few words about the amendment I submitted to Article 3. In fact, the point is that there are many private companies, which have been doing, and they make vegetables from farmers themselves, high interest rates and dealing. We know that by 1996, many banks and many dealers, when the purchase of wheat is not understood by words, that the price of wheat would be much lower, so I ask for the name of all these cheating peasants and paors, who was beaten yesterday by ice in the vicinity of Zrenjani, to give them back their tormented money. And yet, tell the secretary not to laugh.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9412	Do MPs want a word? No, they don't. ) I would like to vote on the amendments of MP Lazar Marjanski to Article 3. The law. For 52, against 115, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9413	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, a number of MPs have submitted amendments to Article 3. The bill, precisely for the next reason - because they felt that they could not only in these 19 points (i.e., another point was accepted) to observe the previous time, because there are really different reasons and different conditions, from which extra profit and extra income can be drawn. I have proposed two reasons by amendment, and I will list four-five, which can be absorbed in this bill. Of course, if we spent a long time thinking about the reasons that existed to form extra income, we could come up with one hundred of those moments. My proposal for an amendment refers to the addition of points 20 and 21. Point 20 says "Money allocated to political parties, NGOs, independent media and political groups by foreign NGOs, foundations, foreign governments, international companies and other international funds." Point 21. - " Gifts and donations, computer equipment, cars, TV equipment, etc. allocated to political parties, NGOs, independent media and political groups by foreign NGOs, foreign governments, international companies and other international funds. "The reason for the rejection of the amendment is that the essence is already contained in the subject matter of the law." I guarantee you, I have read this law well, that what I have suggested is nowhere in essence, nor in the spirit of this law. These are concrete things and they're talking about extra profits and extra profits and extra assets acquired in the previous period, and right in this area. I guess the time behind us, the independence or the independence of the media, can be viewed from a political perspective, but it's about this moment, that someone who acquired property in the previous period today is making extra profits. He didn't pay that property, he didn't give any credit, and today he's making extra profits. Therefore, I think the amendments are meaningful and should be accepted. Of course, you can set other criteria here. For example, these days, Astra Bank travels through Serbia and takes the budgets of cities, public enterprises, cultural institutions and other public institutions. Of course, this law will not apply to her. We know well that such banks take that money and interest on 4%, and sell those funds at 20%. What about those 16%? (Glass from the O.R.: These are the Caricians.) I don't know, but I know it's Astra Bank. That's how it happened in Capco these days, as decided by the president of the municipality, funds were transferred from the Sabačka banka to the Astra Banka. Of course, they will not be subject to this law, for they will be profiting in some future period, so they will not be able to be treated as an extra profit. There are other reasons, we can count them here 100. I counted these three. I know you're gonna say no, but you're wrong. These are real forms of extra profit and extra profit. Of course, they're not institutional, they're out of institutions and they can be considered forms of the gray economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9414	Anyone else want a word? Mr Branislav Ivkovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9415	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, now you have a chance to try to make one last move and at least one small step towards the equality of this law to all. It is not easy to speak if it is known that this law is made selectively, that it covers only an institutionalised form of possible extra profit-making, and if the SPS MPs have indicated for this speaker how much there is a lack of understanding of the right and designed domestic policy of leading the state. Clearly, if one company had received 6 dinars per mark, that the company had exported, and by exporting it had to give part of the earned foreign exchanges to the National Bank, the same rate is 6 to 1. There are misunderstandings about stock reserves. Now we're coming up with an amendment that points to an area you haven't even covered. If, at the time of the international community's embargo, interrupted the supply of energy to this country, interrupted financial flows, interrupted the chance to buy re-promitions for production, interrupted the chance to export its goods legally, we had to give the Macedonians and Bulgarians 200 million dollars a year to sell with our companies our products, it is clear that in this country, the money flow of the grey economy was primarily reflected in foreign exchange payments. It is clear that the purchase of houses, villas and apartments, foreign exchanges, and how it was present. None of those who have huge houses and huge apartments, which they bought on the market, are invited by this law to prove where they get their foreign exchanges to pay for these houses and apartments. No, you don't invite them. You are only chasing officials, directors and others who have received the apartment by law and have bought it by law because you have made it for politically unspeakable criminal law, and the political alike have a Article 9 that you agree with them. Gentlemen, many parties here, once in opposition, have now functioned in power. Many parties and how much money they had for their promotional performances, for paying expensive billboards, for publishing ads, posters, various videos on certain electronic media, for advertising in newspapers. Gentlemen, check where the money comes from for that, these political parties. Many media are funded from the outside. This country is rocked by Natasa Kandic, Sonja Licht, Sonja Biserko. Where'd they get the money? What legal flows do they get? Check it out. 827 NGOs are on a site funded by the American state. Tax that extra profit. It's now your call to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9416	Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9417	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the worst amendment that has been offered to MPs in this assembly of parliament. This is an amendment that is expected to support the parliamentary majority that would thus acknowledge everything that has been referred to its account for years and which has been the result of the incompetence of the people who have managed these societies, to understand what is happening in it. What political organisation in the time of the SPS government could make an extra profit? What kind of NGO could make an extra profit? We'll pay extra profits if they tax prison days, street beatings, harassing members of our families. We are talking about a law that is very precise, very clear, a law that goes in favor of today's opposition that should not be held accountable for all that some in its name have done, but must have the courage to say that it is ready to accept that law and insist that one day it applies to us, if there is such a circumstance. No one is spared this. No criminal liability will be bypassed. But this is a law that refers to a very clearly defined period of time in which something was possible. It's not possible to broadcast a primary show today. We don't do that. Today it's possible to buy foreign exchange exchanges at every corner. Of course, companies took the official course. But what about the directors who then sold foreign exchanges on the street on the market, and then returned the difference, and they didn't place it anywhere? What is punishable under the Code of Criminal Procedure will be punishable. You join that. Take part in the process of defining responsibility. You file criminal charges, if you know. But do not defend what is indefensible and do not repeat those words that did not bring good to anyone in this country. You know how hard it was to live in a country that was so exclusive. You're talking about the need to make a political balance in which arguments will be respected, no matter what sides they come from. Then expect us to say - yes, the extra profit was being a member of the Resistance, the extra profit was being a student of Belgrade University and through some NGO to act. It's that political logic that was defeated on September 24th. Every vote was bought on September 24th, and that's what those who politicalally represented us said. This is the worst amendment that has ever been made in this House in this assembly. Everything else is for and against, but this is an amendment that opposes the logic of life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9418	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, as deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you tax prison days, if those who were political prisoners get some money from it, I may also have a tax on your apartment. This is an extraordinary amendment. He guesses right where he's supposed to be. The guess of those who, according to the Washington Post report, can read it on his website, and he also transmitted "Blic" in due time while he dared, about $120m and only last year in our country to change power in the Republic of Serbia. Now, I know that at least 30% of the people who give you that money take it. Count on $80 to $90 million in recognition of the U.S. administration, where it's public. They got those treated for the amendment. These are political parties, and the media, and NGOs, both in terms of money and gifts, donations. If it wasn't for individuals of you who don't have a job internship living in Genex apartments. If it weren't for that, how would individuals of you who don't have a day of internship drive expensive cars? If not, how come only individuals from the MP majority of DOS wear a new suit every day? If it weren't for that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how would you have hundreds of millions of copies of the advertising material that you shared in the campaign? Hundreds of millions. If it hadn't been for the Resistance to flood Serbia, not just with billboards, T-shirts, clothes, whatever you wanted, you could have gotten with them, it was printed in unlimited quantities. If it wasn't for that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how would Mr. Ceda Jovanovic pay a fine of 350,000 dinars? Yesterday I hear that the Serbian government has returned his sentence charged under the Information Act. At the time, he said -- they gave me friends. Who are friends who give that kind of money to someone who's poor, deals with politics, in opposition, beats him, harass him, and that's what his contemporaries beat him at the time he was in the student movement. The power of the gani beat. A man who can never come to power. If it wasn't for you from the opposition, since we stole everything from the government and destroyed it, you have a certain fortune? How you gained them, and you weren't at all in oligarchy, so don't call me, please, I didn't come here as a police inspector. I tell one of you or one of you from the pay phone, and you want me to tell everyone. I repeat, you are one majority here who follows a few people who are no better than us who have been in power. Nothing better. They're just worse. Perhaps you thought that JUL was the worst thing that ever appeared in Serbian style, not true, DOS is the worst. DOS is the worst and never again...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9420	I ask the MP to return to the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9421	I'd come back if I didn't -- what do you call them -- the ones they get from all sides?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9422	Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9423	I don't want it to fall out. You can joke, ma'am, but the throws come from Milka and the rest of the Jaftars, I didn't hear the radicals say they did. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9424	I ask you, and I warn you of the courtesy of conduct, and of that which is the cast of the messengers of the people sitting in the benches, and of the speaker after the voice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9425	So when the government changes, the one who was in the opposition comes into possession of documents about what the previous government was doing. Here comes the documents that speak of crime, abuse of power, the whole life that took place in a country. Now it remains for the new government to assess what it will do and what it will not do. You're going to deal with everything and everything. Like what it is and what it's not a crime. I'm ordering you to deal with crime here. There's a lot of unexplored crime in this country, and there's a day today. It's happening under your patronage. The same people who bribed bureaucracy from the previous government will also bribe red tape from your current government. A team before you had that shot, but you kept the previous frame. And the prominent minister, and behind him stands the entire pyramid of old employees who have been professional and who have worked there for years and who know...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9426	Five minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9427	... Which little door comes with bribery and corruption. I mean, if you're honorable people, you're the new ones who are in power, like you who were the subject of this amendment, you'll vote for this amendment. Then we'll figure out how many political parties, how much the NGO got the money, how much the media got the money, where the individuals got the information empire, where the individuals got the money...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9428	Five minutes and 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9429	... for television, for newspapers, for Sundays. So that everything that wasn't legal for you, and maybe for us, is taxed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9430	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica of the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9431	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, if the Ministry of Finance has returned funds that have been recovered by applying the Information Law to the media's name, does not mean that the story of the Information Act is finished. If we had never said one word about him, that we were trying to forget him, we couldn't have done it. One of the worst laws ever passed in the history of Serbia's parliamentaryism, which is a law that has left disastrous consequences for our society, and has not benefited at all. If you were going to make up for all the other shortcomings in your policy, you failed because the truth cannot be overcome. As for the argument that is allegedly justified, this amendment, so does that mean that all those who shared flyers in Serbia in election campaigns were touched by someone. I put DOS posters through SRS, JUL and SPS posters. Do you expect DOS MPs to say that all posters are financed in such a way that we are given from the east and you from the west. Did you maybe get from Saddam Hussein and us from Clinton? Don't, if we want to live in normal society, then we need to respect a certain system of values that says there are laws that accurately determine the forms of funding of political organisations. The laws you've been applying very strictly, controlling accounts, keeping accounts to the parties in a blockade for several years. You weren't so kind to us during your reign. Every single one of us has been carefully sanctioned and observed. This law with which we are trying to change something here today, in itself, is a step that we must take together. It won't make much sense if we give up the idea of determining individual responsibility that isn't guilty, but it is moral, for everything that's happened in this society. Why should we, as MPs, finger our political competition today by saying, they were funded by those who bombed Kuwait, and you answered us - and you were financed by those who bombed Serbia. That's nonsense. It's not a normal political life. These amendments have nothing to do with the law. These amendments should only contribute to the weight that has been defeated, of which no one has benefited. The one by which the electoral will of the citizens was defined as bought, trampled, and then what was happening on October 5th. I'm not accusing any SRS voters. I don't think they were manipulated, I think they knew very well when they voted for you. I respect them. I have no idea to say that Saddam Hussein funded your posters. You make so much sense, so tell me, it's not for you either, because we haven't lost because of the posters, we've lost because of other things. This rejection is precisely the consequence and continues in normal political life in Serbia. To throw out something that is so unacceptable and which is nonsensical. Which no one in their right mind can understand and support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9432	The People's MP, the Wolf. On what basis are you looking for a word? (Alexander Vukic: Replica. You are not mentioned in Mr Jovanovic's presentation. This is an amendment debate. You must be mentioned by the name or the deputy president of the parliamentary group, if that is the case, that recognition. He mentioned two names, Saddam Hussein and Clinton, so I don't believe you recognized each other in any of them. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Dragan Tomic. I ask the MPs to vote. For 45, against 125, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 10, out of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I had an intervention to break the Rules of Procedure. Can we leave it for the start of the afternoon? Thank you. Break till 3:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please set up a quorum, so please insert your identification cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. Before we continue to work on the third item of the agenda by reviewing the bill on one-off income tax and extra property acquired by taking advantage of special benefits, in particular and by deciding on amendments, I will read you a notice. You have received the resignations of MPs Aleksandr Popovic, Filip Golubović and Dusan Prorokovic, as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the examination of these paragraphs, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments finds the end of the term of office for these Members of Parliament, the day of the resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. Law on the election of MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Board, finds that the mandate ended, before the elections ended, for MPs Aleksandr Popovic, Filip Golubovic and Dusan Prorokovic, elected from the Democratic Opposition of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica, on the day of the resignation. According to the law on the election of MPs, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be carried out. I thank the MPs for their work so far. [[Applause]] We move to work on the third item of the agenda, and we end up with amendments to Article 3. It's a bill of law. I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in Article 3. The draft law shall provide a feedback to the provisions of this Article. In accordance with Article 134(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 134 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, the National Assembly particularly decides whether there is a general interest in this feedback. The Finance Committee has assessed that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 3. It's a bill of law. I put to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia contained in Article 3. Proposal for a law on the feedback of the provisions of this article, for which, according to the government's assessment, there is a general interest. For 117 against 47, there were no abstentions, no 5 votes, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Custodial has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 3. It's a bill of law. National MP Tomislav Nikolic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9434	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, by submitting this amendment, I am trying to prevent the negative consequences of the application of this law. Negative not for individuals who stole, not for individuals who used privileges, but for a huge number of companies in our Republic, who would stop working if the state of Buddha insisted that they be charged with this tax either in money or in their capital. In fact, there is a possibility that this law is like this and imagined, that some companies would lose that part of the value that should belong to workers. It doesn't matter, when you privatize a company, whether those 15%, as planned for the workers, will be worth $50 million or will be worth $20 million, because 30 will take the state based on some of the debts the company has towards the state. You predicted that all those who received goods from the stock reserves, that everyone who received foreign exchanges on the NBJ course would be the bonds of this tax. And I'm an amendment, which I've offered to Article 4. The bill, provided that the one-time taxpayer should be a natural or legal person, who, during the period and in the manner laid down in Article 2 of this Act, used special benefits, not investing in the production, having the means contrary to the purposes for which they were obtained and contrary to the regulations, achieved extra income or a glass of extra property. I remind you again of the situation after the bombing, when we allowed many companies in the country to import vital equipment, so they could continue to work. We made that import possible by selling them exchange rates per course. I remind you again, NIS was constantly receiving foreign exchanges per course. That this is how we maintained stability and price and supply in the country. I remind you again that EPS received foreign exchanges per course. Do you want the state, as owner of much more than the privatisation law, to enter these companies and reduce the participation of others in the company? Or is NIS going to get in this way and become very cheap for someone so-called. A strategic partner. Furthermore, if any funding is made under this law, the Serbian government proposes to enter as an emergency budget income and to have the Serbian government at their disposal, although the budget is closed for this year. Although the government doesn't tell us what they're going to do with these funds and these are the only assets that aren't currently transparent. It's about billions, and they don't know what the government is going to invest and how they're going to spend it. It will be her extraordinary budget income, which will be made available by the finance minister. If we already claim that the citizens are damaged by the fact that individuals have been making extra profits and extra property, then let's make a direct damage to the citizens who have been damaged. The amendment I proposed, to depriving citizens who had to sell foreign exchanges per course, you did not accept. But in the second part of this amendment, and I again point out the lack of a Rules of Procedure in which I now have to treat a completely different matter in the second part, I assumed that half of the funds charged from this tax go to the Republic of Serbia's budget as an extraordinary income, that 35% goes to the Republic Fund for PIO employees, and that the Republic Health Insurance Fund goes to 15% of the tax paid. If people were deprived of health care, if they were denied pensions, why don't we make them this law through this extra income that will go into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, why don't we... (President: five minutes and 22 seconds. If you could hold out for at least 10 seconds, that would be very nice. (President: Well, I've held on to 22. ) Not much to thank you for, 22 seconds. [[Laughter]] I know some who endure and much more.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9435	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9436	So, the amendment, it's not trying to stop the state from picking up revenues, the amendment is trying to make it possible for the state to collect revenue exactly from those who played the country at a time when you weren't in power. The amendment tries to give funds to the exact ones that were damaged at the time when someone obtained extra profit and extra property. But you don't read, you don't listen, and all these discussions don't touch the few brains that individuals have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9437	The word has a National MP, Bozidar Vucurović, according to the Business.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9438	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 138. The Rules of Procedure, which speaks of amendments, just to correct one, I think it's an editorial error. In this material, it turns out that I have given two amendments to Article 3, and I have given amendments to Article 3 and Article 4, which is essentially visible. I'm asking that this amendment, which says it's on article three, be corrected.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9439	Mr. Vucurovic, the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. You have an amendment to Article 4, and I will call you after this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9440	It says here on article three, and I want to make it right.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9441	You had an amendment to Article 3 and you have an amendment to Article 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9442	I know what I've got, but the government doesn't know what I've got, but it says I've submitted the amendment to Article 3 twice. I just called to get a call for article four.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9443	You don't have any worries, you'll get back to me and you'll have your word. You also have an amendment to Article 4. The error was corrected. Is anyone else answering for the amendment by MP Tomislav Nikolic? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. 49 voted against 109, with one abstention, did not vote 13, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9444	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted some of this amendment for the same reasons as Mr Tomislav Nikolic, in order to separate those companies, mainly state-owned companies, which were used by the Serbian government for production, used for new programmes and used it to save both factories and workers from collapse. I think at least that part of the amendment should be adopted. The second part of the amendment concerns that amendment that this assembly did not accept, which says that the People's Bank of Yugoslavia has profited most from the provisions of this law now, because the NBJ has now, in the period since 1989, at the time of the state to which this law cannot apply, but still, to this day, bought from natural and legal persons a huge amount of foreign currency in the official course at a time when the market rate was significantly higher than the official one. What does that mean now? We're taxing people who bought foreign exchanges from the National Bank, and we're not taxing the National Bank that bought those foreign exchanges from citizens and legal entities. Where is this righteousness now in this law? I told you the NBJ didn't print any foreign exchanges, and neither did the Department of Banknote Making. He's still not printing foreign exchanges. As we're on our way, I think we'll be introducing another currency here very soon. It means she took these exchanges from the citizens and took them from the legal entities. Why tax Jugopetrol instead of taxing NBJ? Why tax the electronics industry and not the NBJ? Why tax the electricity industry, not the NBJ? That difference and that shade doesn't make any sense to me. I don't think there's a lot of people in this room. Why not pay that money back to those who gave it to the National Bank? After all, since you did not accept that the NBJ has made damages to those it has damaged, then there is no point in determining the debtor and the damage done to the citizens of Serbia. But in order for at least a few of these injustices to be corrected, I do appeal that those companies that received foreign exchanges, but who sold their goods at depressed prices, not market prices, but at the prices in which they calculated the exchange rate they received at that rate, to free them from that tax. The fact that we won't be compensated would be neither the first nor the last time. Otherwise, we exist for the state to take from us. But destroying state-owned enterprises, destroying entire systems, destroying public enterprises is at least insane.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9445	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9446	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I still believe that the solution provided for in Article 4, the solution proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is not precise enough, is not clear enough. They will also refer to those who have nothing to pay any extra income tax or extra income, because, let's say, it was a situation that our social trade companies were completely relaxed. Small private shops, mostly buying goods, not paying customs or excise fees, were full of goods, and social ones were with empty gondolas and huge sales spaces. When the population was to be supplied with edible oil, sugar, basic supplies from the stock, at the state price, we determined the suppliers who would supply the cities. It was mostly social trading companies that had facilities, capacities. That's how we helped them make money for their expenses, make money for their salaries, make sure some private doesn't buy them out for nothing. And there were private trading companies that we knew were organized. For example, there is only one private store in the village, and such are the ones we provided with goods from the commodity reserves because they supplied locals to the village. There was no extra profit. They had the right to charge a strictly limited margin, their manipulative costs, so that the price remained acceptable to the buyer, and their earnings were reduced to normal business. True, there was a crime because there were some villages or parts of the city where such goods never arrived, although they arrived and were to be negotiated with the district’s chiefs to be reallocated. But there's no profit. From now on, such a commercial company, which has withdrawn a large amount of sugar from the stock reserves, will now pay this tax when that sugar went to consumers at a low price and there was no extra profit. If one of the directors of such a company or head of the store stole it, some other competent authorities determine it, so it did not reach the citizens. I think you have to pay attention to that, you have to think about how much it's invested in Freedom, in Krusik, in the flag after the bombing. Others didn't have those benefits, others didn't get that money. They've got certain factories. What do we do now, close those factories? And this second part of the amendment of Ambassador Bozidar Vukurovic -- of course, you have already avoided the obligation to transfer funds to those of whom they have been kidnapped, meet. You refused to accept a previous amendment, but think carefully, if the National Bank was just a transmission, if she was buying foreign exchanges cheaply and selling them cheaply, if you wanted to collect from those who got them cheaply, so if there's anything fairer, there's anything more natural than paying off those who had to sell them cheaply. Many of you have never dealt with anything, so they don't know, every exporter had to sell 5% of the value of exports to the National Bank per course and 5% more of that 5%, well let's say it's 0.25%. Now why don't we return to that exporter what the state will charge from those who bought those foreign exchanges? How come every time a country steals, the state makes no money, and it won't pay off whoever it's stolen from? These aren't foreign exchanges stolen from the state, they're from individuals on whom there's a whole list of when, what day, what amount they sold. There were other companies, all of them should be compensated, if we're already depriving the state, but to you at will.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9447	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments tabled by MP Bozidar Vucurovic on Article 4. For 54, against 122, one abstention did not vote 11 out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Pelevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Are any of the others authorized to participate in the discussion? Mr. Seselj, president of the parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9448	The Serbian Radical Party will vote in favour of the amendment, as the legislator strictly determines the time period to which the law would be revealed its ideological and political motivation. If extra profits are taxed then extra profits must be taxed, at any time, if acquired in the same way. So the only restriction here could be general obsolescence. However, you are already the obsolescence our legal order provides for and introduces new limitations on limitations of limitations, which cannot remain in legal traffic. I know this is like a Spanish village to you, that you don't understand anything, but at least you have to listen and learn, not just throw it away. The hatred you show has been searching for Batić, yet Batić hates Croats much more than I do and there is no need for me. This one of yours, as you say, well, a little lesson won't hurt her. In this case, you must not allow yourself, if you want to stick to the general legal principles, that the time period of validity of the law applies to only one type of your political opponents and competitors. Why should this law apply only to the period of Milosevic's rule? Why not the period of Titus's reign or that intermession between Tito and Milosevic? What is now the reason to interfere only for the period of Milosevic's rule? Only ideologically and not ideologically, as an expression of ideological disagreements, but ideologically in a subjective sense as an expression of ideological hatred and intolerance. It's the only motive. If you hire a serious lawyer on this issue, he will tell you that from a legal point of view, a legal project is nakaradan, anti-constitutional and must not be voted as such in the Serbian Parliament, but if you are not interested in any legal opinion but blindly follow your political will, your ideological goal and your narrow abduction interest that comes here, then for you from the aspect of logic, from the aspect of political or legal arguments there is no cure, then it is simply dark in front of Serbia and that darkness departs from other legal projects that you have submitted to this National Assembly. That darkness is simply coming out of this legal project.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9449	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments tabled by MP Borislav Pelevic on Article 4. For 56, against 114, one abstention did not vote 20, out of a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9450	Since you're constantly hurting Article 109. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to read as it reads: "The MPs vote for the proposal, against the proposal or refrain from voting." You are constantly reading to us here how many MPs have not voted and it is entering the record. I don't know what that information is for, except that you're also a quorum based on those who didn't vote. Those who didn't vote don't exist at all in the Rules of Procedure. It may be cards that have been standing who knows when in the benches and I ask you to throw out that section in the electronic system as well - did not vote, because it does not exist in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Either we're in favour, or we're against, or we're abstentions, and that -- it didn't vote, it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9451	You are right, there is a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Rule 109, which says, "The MPs vote for the proposal, against the proposal or refrain from voting." So, in the future, I won't determine those who haven't voted at all, just means yes, against and abstention. This amendment ended with amendments to Article 4 and we move on to Article 5. The 5th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, George Mamul. The Legislative Committee considers that the solution proposed in the amendment is legally possible, by proposing a legal-technical order, saying "in which facts are established" to replace the words "in which facts are established". At the session of the Legislative Committee, with the amendment and the revision of the Committee, a representative of the proposings agreed, and with the Committee's revision, the applicant agreed to the amendment. The Finance Committee has adopted this amendment with a draft of the Legislative Committee, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Pelevic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. ) Do any of the authorised ones appear for the word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put to the vote the amendments tabled by MP Borislav Pelevic, on Article 5. For 59, against 119, 12 and one of 191 MPs were not voted, or abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ruzic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9452	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 5. The bill on one-off income tax and extra property acquired by the use of special benefits, I submitted an amendment in paragraph 1 which reads: "that one-time tax as a solidarity.... he owes a natural or legal person to whom a taxpayer, without a burden, has transferred things or rights from his or her assets, acquired or increased in the manner referred to in Article 2 of this Act in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. 01. In 1989, until the day of the determination of the tax liability. The text of my amendment, so attitude 1 is changing, only as far as the date is concerned, so it would read "from 31. 05. In 1992." First of all, I think this date should be in Article 5. Proposal for a law for the simple reason that the Republic of Serbia is at the time of 1. 01. In 1989, it was part of the SFRY, and by then it was still the current government of Ante Markovic, that there was an exceptional suck-up of financial resources from the budget of the then Socialist Republic of Serbia and these funds were directed primarily by the financial machinations of the then prime ministers in the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia that were thus being prepared for the secession of the then state. So, first of all, I believe that the development of the grey economy in these areas, in general in the areas of the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia, came after the introduction of sanctions to the SRJ in 1992 and that this law, which we have repeatedly cited as representatives of the SPS parliamentary group, deals with the part of the extra income that has been obtained by institutional means, and does not deal with the part that has been achieved through a grey economy which is much more drastic and which in a much larger dimension affects this extra income that has been achieved over the last eight or nine years. My opinion is that, first of all, this law as such is not complete, because it only affects one kind of extra income, and economists know that extra income or extra profit, has multiple visions. And if you wanted to be very transparent, as you popularly say, then you could really say, since it is seen that this law has been designed in such a way that it is primarily trendy and that it has one selective approach to solving problems, that this law has been practically applied since the eighth session of the SKJ since 1988. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9453	Mr. Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9454	The SRS will support this amendment because it concerns the timing of the application of the law. Since you have no argument whatsoever, absolutely no, that the law has exactly been applied since 1 January 1989, apart from the ideological hatred you show, you should bear in mind that such an ideological approach can have incredibly difficult consequences for both the Serbian legal order and the Serbian parliamentaryism. During today's debate, the head of your parliamentary group boasted that the government returned money to some punished media yesterday. Why are the media being punished? The media was punished for publishing slanders. As far as I know, there's not a single medium that went past and last year's sentence unearthed, none. No one could publish, explain, prove the libel he launched. Now, what don't you know here? You don't know that individual freedom is above collective freedom by modern, democratic principles. The human personality must be intact. You're boasting that you've returned your money to the slanderers, and on the other hand, you're looking for a variant to misbehave your political opponents. It's pure vindictiveness, it's hate, but don't forget, hate first destroys one who hates, but one who's the object of hate. In this case, here's another example of this member of the law regarding the determination of the duration of time. Today someone here mentioned by the MPs of the SRS, financing political parties from abroad. We all know there's been a lot of funding. Since when? Since when there are political parties, which is since 1990. I remember, in the seat of the Democratic Party, in the building of the Pedagogical Academy, there remained tons and tons of unadhesive posters delivered to the Democrats by the Americans through Greece. I was an eyewitness. After the Americans announced how much money they gave you, as the Western press described in detail who you were getting the money from, instead of coming out here with a proposal on how to tax that money, this is where Cedomir Jovanovic comes out with the counteradut - and Saddam Hussein financed you - which is not true. Saddam Hussein made a contract with the 75 million-dollar Energy Project recently. The Iraqis give jobs, and the Americans only bribe the most prominent politicians, and there's a huge difference. Secondly, you know, Saddam Hussein never bombed us, he was always a friend to the Serbian people. Even when we Serbs didn't deserve it. And the Americans bombed the Serbian people. Iraq didn't bomb Kuwait, Iraq just tried to restore its territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9455	Please just go back to the content of the amendment, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9456	It is the subject of this debate, because as far as I can tell from the stenogram, you have not warned Cedomir Jovanovic. So take care of what you do. As far as this law is concerned, I promised you this morning, and I'm going to repeat it all day long as any member comes -- you're tearing down the legal order. The legal order in Serbia is not perfect. He has been painfully built and violated in recent years. That's a fact. But what you've been doing with this country's legal order for the past 10 years has not been recorded. Because you're not going to do it on purpose. That's what a Martian witnessed here. You will not deliberately fill out the Constitutional Court because you think you can freely pass anti-constitutional laws. That's where your logic is. You can pass anti-constitutional laws if there is no constitutional court. And you don't know that it's an even more serious violation that laws are ever passed until the constitutional court is completed. That, therefore, does not penetrate your mind, and who can explain it to you. The sobering will be very painful.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9457	Please, Dragan Tomic as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group for the amendment to Parliament's 5th member Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9458	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, as well as in the previous amendments we have proposed to this law and the proposal for this amendment, we have tried to contribute fully, comprehensively and comprehensively to the scope of this law, and as the Proposer has said that this law should receive little spirit, it seems to me, to gain the most legal equality. It is obvious that for all the amendments proposed by the opposition to this law, as well as these laws that we are going to talk about, only one sentence is mainly written - the amendment is not accepted. Neither argument, nor evidence, nor in this, nor in other situations when we talked about what is extra profit, what can all be extra profit, whether it ceases to exist with some date or will continue, whether this extra profit came from a given date, and when we warned that extra profits are exclusively related to money lobbys, to financial lobbys, it is obvious that this attitude is not accepted, but is only entered into the institutional part that is trying to evaluate the previous time. Of course, we are in a situation, and we have proved now that a part of the Serbian economy that has worked exclusively for Serbian citizens, using the funds from the primary show, can be seriously endangered, that is, those businesses can be seriously threatened by this bill. There should be, when you use the term - the spirit of the law, that the laws in this country should apply to everyone. But it's obvious that lately we have a need to write regulations that will only apply to a certain category of people. It can be baptized by a difficult term, such as -- a racist relationship with the citizens of Serbia, because in that way you don't really treat Serbian citizens like that, and we're talking about democracy, and some community, the unity of the people and so on, because there is no such thing in these laws. Of course, with the previous amendment by Mr Nikolic, I will look back, the use of these funds is very plastically sought. It was said -- well, those funds go where they are most needed, not just to the Republic of Serbia's budget. I have an impression, and we haven't come to that, it seems to me that at one of the previous sessions, the legislator said there would be a special regulation that would regulate the way the funds are available in certain positions, which is necessary to do. That's why it's just amazing that the concentration and the story that some millions of people will come here will be left in the hands of one man alone. How can we trust a man now, and we'll get to Article 9, where we're trying to trust only one man and his will to judge fairly by this law, and we don't trust institutions, we don't trust groups of people, we don't trust governments. It's just amazing that these proposals aren't meaningful and that in such an arrogant way they're being rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9459	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments tabled by MP Branko Ruzic on Article 5. For 57, there were no abstentions against 117, 14 of the 188 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Sladjan Mijajlović, Tomislav Nikolic and Bozidar Vucurovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9460	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law has dared even to enter into the solutions provided for by other laws, to suspend them completely, although, in my opinion, this is not possible, and the right example for this is the position of Article 3 of this proposal, which I quote, a proposal for a one-time tax, as a solidist, is also owed by a director, or a member of the Management Board of Legal Persons of Article 4 of this Law in a state, social or mixed property with a heavy participation of social capital. Right now, I'm going to say that he really doesn't have the guts to hold the session of the Legislative Committee anymore. Namely, when the Legislative Committee has before it an amendment of the People's MP from the DOS, it deals with the amendment, most often declares it legally possible, and amendments by the MPs of the SRS rejects and says the Legislative Committee in a sentence - the legislative committee does not accept the amendment of MP Tomislav Nikolic. Well, it's not the function of the Legislative Committee to accept or reject the amendment. Its function is only to point to the Assembly whether the amendment is legally possible or not, and the assembly will decide whether it will accept it or not. This is how all of us MPs of the opposition get a pack from the Legislative Committee, but all of us, and each of us, the Legislative Committee writes - no amendment to that and that MP is accepted. Then let it serve you as an example of why you should not participate in the work of the board. The government has dealt with this amendment a little bit more closely. The government acknowledges that under the Company Act -- but not to worry about the government, they conduct their private talks, and when they are there -- a director, i.e. a member of the board of directors of legal persons in state, social or mixed property with a heavy participation of social capital, does not meet unlimited solidarity for legal persons' obligations. That's right. That's what the Company Act says. But the government says - this provision does not apply to this law, because it says in social property it is very difficult to separate the director from the owner of the social enterprise, the company of the company is the company of that director, so if it has achieved extra income and extra profit, the director or board member is obliged to settle debts under this extra tax law if it cannot do so by the company. Now I ask the question - is it really possible that so far the directors of the car factory in Kragujevac, chairman of the boards of directors, board members, will be able to settle the tax, which the car factory cannot settle? Or who has dared to find these directors guilty, without any process? So isn't there any special procedure that would be conducted first by the MUP, then the prosecution, then the courts, and the forts, yes, she got a car exchange factory per course, and the director took the foreign exchanges home. And like this, this is really a reckoning, now not just with political insinuators, this is a deal with the backbone of the Republic of Serbia's economy. All the directors, all the board members, all the board presidents are now thinking - will Minister Djelic... (nothing he, like he's not in the session, so I mean, really Minister, if you're not going to listen, what are you doing here, what are you doing here? ..... To point the finger and say, "In, he speaks a lot of things at a pay phone, give debts to his company, write non-comfortically -- in prison three, four, five, ten years, because he can't settle the tax, which falls on his firm." Think about it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, think about it a little bit and Serbian -- don't just let these French write to you the laws and take your measure for suits, because you're opening Pandora's box, you're introducing a terrible principle, that there's no more security in this country, that nothing is sacred anymore, that nothing is done by law, because there's going to be someone who's going to say -- you're doing it by law, but now I'm making the law that you're doing it by law, it's no longer by law, so now I'm going to ask you: what you went through to the green light at the light, even though it was allowed green at the time. And now I'm saying, you've gone to the green light, I'm taking your punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9461	The word has been issued by MP Sladjan Mijajlovic, as an amendment promoter, a DoS MP whose amendment was not accepted by the government and by the Legislative Committee, as well as by the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9462	I also suggested that article 3 in Article 5 be deleted because of the high risk it carries, that at least one director should pay an unwarranted tax, and wherever there is a possibility, a hint that there was an abuse, that a criminal procedure should be conducted, that these matters be discussed in criminal proceedings. However, since the amendment of the Legislative Committee has been accepted to deliver the tax application to the competent prosecutors and lawyers, for these reasons I will withdraw the amendment. I hope they do their job by law and conscience.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9463	I find that MP Sladjan Mijlovic has withdrawn the amendment. The word is submitted to the amendment by Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9464	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a legislative solution from this member was possible only if the director, the chairman of the board of directors or member of the board of directors, state or social enterprises, or companies with majority social capital, committed a crime. If he committed a crime, then it's not the subject of this law. There's a law that sanctions these crimes. The DOS MP said earlier that the amendment had been filed because of the possibility that at least any director would be unjustly punished, by applying Article 4 of this law. So there will be not but one; there will be many, every one who speaks that DOS is the worst. The whole article 4 is a disaster. You're taxing something that's been acquired in a state that's gone. The next step I think there will be taxation in the period of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, so in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, and for God's sake, I think Milos Obrenovic, because of that trade in pigs, could be very much pictured in this law. And let me tell you that in Croatia, Slovenia, as well as the BH Federation, you have caused a great public concern with this law. All these countries were part of this country and it worked in one period that you are now taxing, and many members of this law refer to economic operators from those countries. I don't know how you think you can charge for it, but I know you can charge for it, even when there's no one to charge for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9465	Mr. Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9466	This amendment, which was submitted by Tomislav Nikolic and Bozidar Vucurovic, is more than justified because it refers to Article 5, Article 5, which represents the peak of self-will and the peak of ignorance of basic legal logic. I have to read this point: "A one-time tax, as a solidary recipient, also owes the director, i.e. a member of the board of directors, a legal person from Article 4 of this Act, in a state, social and mixed property with a heavy participation in social capital." How can a director or board member answer when he's just a technical person? There's the rental manager, the tenant. How can she do that? He was hired by the company to do management work. How can he answer? For the director of a social or state-owned company, it was a huge success in obtaining money from the primary show, getting foreign exchanges per course, etc. It was a business success. This provision is contrary to the provisions of the Company Act. So, when it comes to the Serbian government that it is contrary to the provisions of the Company Act, the Government answers: "Amendment is not accepted, because the logic on which the Company Act is based, under which the Director, or member board of directors, legal persons in state, social or mixed property, with excessive participation of social capital, do not correspond unlimitedly, in solidarity. The legal person's obligations are not applicable to the situation, which needs to be regulated by the proposed law. "So you're not interested in the fact that according to the Company Act, the Director can't do it this way. You realize - it's in the Company Act, but we don't care, we need it like this. You've already passed the tax code once, which was contrary to the federal tax law, and you've even forced the Federal Assembly to subsequently bring it into line with a higher legal act with a lower one, because the federal law is a higher legal act compared to the Republic law. And now, here you're saying, "This is about cases where, in the absence of a clearly defined titlemaker of property over the company, management authorities were in a position to take advantage of special benefits, which were only available to privileged persons, for the achievement of interest, where it is practically very difficult, if not impossible, to distinguish the private element from the social one." You see, what's here now -- let's see one analogy: Kissinger, Holbrook -- as soon as they've run out of mandate, they've lambed many companies in America to be their directors, to be their board members, because they've calculated, they've got connections, they've got acquaintances, they're going to break through with their business policy, and it's going to be easier to benefit the company. It's always been asked here by the director of a social or state-owned company to have wide-ranging connections in all areas of the state, that he might want to go to talk to the bank's director, get credit under favourable conditions, go to the National Bank, ask for money from the primary show, look for foreign exchanges per course, etc. for state and social enterprises. There's only a problem here if he got that money, so instead of in the company, he took it to his house. In that case, the Criminal Law must be applied. Now, for one who was relatively businessly successful, in such a situation, in such perhaps unnatural conditions, but for his company he obtained benefit, which was in accordance with former regulations, to meet his personal property, to drive him out of the house, out of his apartment, to take away his furniture, and who knows what you're willing to do. How can he do that? You know, this could also apply to directors who were retired a long time ago. There's no fence that won't apply to them. This isn't just for those executives who are in your way right now, so you want to break their necks as soon as possible, but also for those who retired five years ago. Now live on pension, and you force them for some failed social enterprise that they, possibly with their property or land that they inherited from their father, from their grandfather, to answer for those obligations. It's something terrible. How could you possibly write a provision like this? Where's any logic? I'm surprised, and I see many DOS lawyers are not present as we discuss this law. A lot of people are gone. It's not an accident. None of them answered the word, to come out, to support this law. It's symptomatic. We haven't heard from any DOS lawyers that support this law. How can someone who's been... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... A civil servant, because the director of a public enterprise is essentially a civil servant, to answer for the benefit he has provided to the company. Now someone's gonna punish him for it, to take away his property. You know, there are a lot of directors who, acting as company directors in public and social property, got rich, who stole. They should be held accountable for every theft. Stealing has to prove it. He can't answer until he's proven stolen. This provision does not apply to theft, but to anyone who has benefited from the conditions governing society, for which they are not to blame. You know, said Dragoslav Avramovic was in 1994...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9467	Mr. Seselj, this is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9468	Here, I'll finish right now, I missed 10 minutes in the general debate, so be a little tolerance. I'm finishing up right now, and I think the example is very important. Dragoslav Avramovic gave a billion marks of credit to social enterprises in 1994. Many of these loans have never been returned, never, most have not been returned. The huge part isn't returned. What does that mean now? Gave to the social sector, they divided the salaries of workers, they entered some projects that may have failed, etc. Who's going to answer there now? The one he gave, not the director who couldn't wait to get that kind of credit or another example, and I'm finishing up...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9469	Well, not another one, but seven minutes, that's enough. Mr. Seselj, you'll get back to me next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9470	Remember, then, that second example.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9471	Okay. Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9472	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will not be held accountable under this law by the directors for the benefits they have achieved in their company, but for the damage they have done to society. No director has received credit, if we are already talking about examples from Dragoslav Avramovic, for paying the salary, but they have received loans for various productions. As well as for the start of production. Then they split it into salaries. It's not the subject of this law either. The subject of this law is other situations. The topic of this law has failed businesses and successful directors who have moved to some parallel, as a rule, into their own. Who's going to be responsible for that? Workers. Well, the workers didn't affect business policy. Business policy was created by those who ran these companies. There's no talking about a private company. It is understood that the private company corresponds to the one who owns it, but who answers in social security? In state? State? How can the state answer for that? By transferring part of the responsibility to those who manage these companies on its behalf, to the board of directors, to the director of the company, so let the director explain today what happened to the loan he received from Dragoslav Avramovic in 1994 and where those funds went. Is that where he might have made some use, and as a rule he did? It's an endless series of failed companies and successful managers who ran them. We face these consequences today. The failed companies have sports clubs that compete - the first, second league, football, basketball, where do they come from? It's from the primary show. How did these funds go away? Players were bought who were sold at three times the price they were paid for. Whether it went into the company's budget or ended up in some private pocket. Thus, this law does not treat those directors who have done their job in a safe way, nor does it treat those directors who have worked for the benefit of businesses, but those who have worked on damages both businesses and societies. The State is obliged to point them out and is obliged to treat them in accordance with this law. This law does not exclude, I repeat, who knows which way today, nor the criminal responsibility, nor can avert very clearly demonstrated willingness and government to respect the decisions of the Supreme Court of Serbia. So, Serbia's Supreme Court is the final address at which an answer will be given to the possible injustice committed against someone who was the subject of this law. We cannot go beyond all that is a catastrophic consequence of inaction in accordance with regulations that existed, ignoring these regulations, or even creating regulations that were directly opposed to logic. Where's the logic in October 4th and the value of the six dinar stamp when it was worth 40 dinars on the street? We can say -- right, there's no crime when someone on the official course gets foreign exchanges from the NBJ. There's no crime here. Let's see if everyone could get that. Could all the companies have gotten it or could only some. You criticised that kind of policy in 1997 in your election campaign. You even spoke very negatively of the entire number of directors who abuse political structures to gain financial power. You mentioned them by name and last name, I don't want to do it, because I don't have any proof of that. You were the Deputy Prime Minister, so you know that. Why should we today avoid a fact that is completely obvious? Those who run these companies must answer. They had privileges. Finally, it is a success to be a businessman at the head of a large company, but at the same time it is a job that pulls after itself and a responsibility for the result of the work. We say no one was responsible for what he was doing, there were such circumstances, there were sanctions, so it was logical to pay six times the price for one drug, but it was a real price on the market, even here with us. They have to answer because they've ruined this society.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9473	You did mention it, but you're not offended, whether you were Deputy Prime Minister, well, here you are, right on the line, but I don't think you're offended, you're just mentioned in the post of Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9474	I would never go out for this pay phone for insults, Cedomir Jovanovic has the right to insult me to the will. I only go out when some of the things he says, and it's about my exposure and they don't stand. He can insult me as much as he wants, and he can call me a horse with a lipiner if it suits him. I don't mind that. However, it is true that I did so on a continuous basis, not only in the pre-election campaign in 1997, but in the economic situation as Vice-President of the Government, I did so, many of the directors who disobeyed regulations, laws, etc. pointed to many affairs and the like. However, there is something in the modern legal order called presummation of innocence. Everyone's innocent until proven guilty. Under this law of yours, everyone is guilty until eventually he proves himself innocent. That's the problem. That's why this law of yours is wrong. There are directors who are money from primary emissions, from loans for Serbia's rebirth from the Serbian Development Fund, etc. I invested in clubs. Here is Covic's angle in the FMP Railway, for example, it doesn't matter, there are those. He needs criminal charges, then court, and then he's protected by the presummation of innocence, so the court finds him guilty, and then he's a material match. And no, all directors will be guilty, everyone will come under the influence of this law, so if someone else succeeds in the appeal procedure and proves he's innocent, by not delaying his appeal. His execution was done, his house was sold for good or his apartment, his furniture sold, his crying or who knows what, and then after that, I'm sorry, we made a mistake, let's give you back some of that. That's the problem. The presummation of innocence is beyond your will. Presumption of innocence must be beyond your economic policy. Your economic policy must not be beyond the presummation of innocence. I'm stressing again - the individual rights of one person are above all collective rights. There may be a thousand directors who are guilty and should be punished, but if that 1001 innocent gets hurt, the social and legal justification of your law falls. The law is of no value to you because it allows one innocent to be punished. That's what the Criminal Law does to you. It's better that 100 murderers remain at large than one innocent to be sentenced to death on a false charge. That principle has to be applied here, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9475	I find that MP Sladjan Myajlovic withdrew his amendment, in the same text, to Article 5. Is anyone else applying for the amendment submitted by Tomislav Nikolic and Bozidar Vucurovic? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 107, there were no abstentions, there were no 25 votes, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9476	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, so that in the most direct way I can demonstrate all the absurdity of the entire legislative project and this member. Speaking of this law, and now this member, I mean that there is a legal system in our country. What he's like -- he's like that, but he exists. There is legislation. If we plead to be a democratic state, then we should admit it. I want to find out that there is a MUP in this country, with resources for state crime and for economic crime. I want to find out that there is a Ministry of Finance, with all the financial inspections. I want to find out that there's an NBJ and the Department of Accounting and Payment. I want to find out that there is a Ministry of Justice. All these levers are being held by DOS today. Unfortunately, he's got it. If there is legal legislation and legal system in this country, then according to this legal system, this country, which is you, DOS, because you've got voter confidence, you need to use all the elements that certain people could sanction by what you've given based on this legal project. This legal project is extremely unnecessary. He's even anti-constitutional. Besides, I'm going to read Article 5(3). - "A one-time tax, as a solidor, is owed by the director, or by a member of the board of directors of the legal entity of a member of the 4th of Ovezakon, in a social, state or mixed property with a heavy involvement of social capital." I added the following text to this attitude: "except in companies organised as a company of capital". The full third position is unconstitutional because it is contrary to the provisions of the Company Act. But my intention was to add an additional text so that the government, when considering my amendment, would read the very provisions of the Company Act and say that I was wrong or that I might be right. Because if the Government had read the provisions of the Company Act, this position 3 would not have been found in the proposal of Article 5. That's why I suggested this supplement. After all, this law will also be passed as anti-constitutional, as unconstitutional and you will bring it in an unconstitutional manner. Even those who could come under the influence of this member of this law will have no one to complain to. We do not have the Constitutional Court as the Supreme Institution of this country, so that all those whom you think to condemn from pure political rematch and this member and this position of the 3rd provision of this law may appeal, but to whom? Besides, it's you. No wonder DOS is the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9477	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9478	The Government can't argue with such a provision as to be a contradiction that the Federal Company Act quite counter-requires. The government finds that the Federal Company Act prescribes one thing, and that is an argument that it does the opposite. It can't. There are indeed many directors who have robbed their enterprises in the social and state sectors and who have become rich along the way. Here, this Miodrag Savicevic, for example. He has a fortune worth about 20 million marks, and they say more than that. He just couldn't get it right. Let's get away from him. Here, he's with you at DOS, DOS official. But in order for him to answer, there must be concrete guilt. I'm personally, intimately convinced that he, for example, stole it all. But that my conviction means nothing in court if I don't bring concrete evidence -- that day he stole it, that day. And that other example I just tried to talk about, since it's about a similar amendment, the same article and the same attitude of the law. When the Serbian government was in that previous term, when Dusan Mihajlovic was in the government with his New Democracy, they were in the government for four years, when he deployed 49% of Telecom's sales money. About 800 million marks went to pensions, and one part of that money was paid even when we were in government. The rest of the money is allocated on behalf of the loans to state-owned and public-sector enterprises. At that time, the directors of the companies that applied for a loan from the Development Fund were invited to the government. They had to sign their personal guarantees that they would be responsible for repaying the loan, and that was not enough for all businesses to repay the loan. Because when a big company in the social sector doesn't have money for wages and workers go out on the street, then there's nothing more to do than pay. That's what you've seen in several cases. God of health, you'll see what he looks like. When thousands of workers don't have money to pay, there's no talking about development projects, there's no talking about investment. It's not someone who had to pay the wages from those money because he didn't have any other money to match his own assets now, especially if it wasn't some particular property, but it's gotten on average for a lifetime. It's one of the deep injustices that contains this legal project of yours. So you'd better pull it back and think about it again until you've made an unprecedented mess. I know what that mess's gonna be like. Some, individually or collectively, of DOS are already rubbing their hands. Now, many will have to drag them by the sleeve, make out with them, court them, beg them, beg them to cut their commitments, write off their commitments, etc., and Minister Djelic knows, in practice, the countries from which he comes, that it all has a price. Write him a million marks there, he'll give you 100 grand. Write him 10 million, he'll give you two million, etc. It's institutionalized in the West already. But in the West, it doesn't happen as a mass phenomenon, as it will be here, if such a law is passed. Corruption is like a great evil in world terms hard to overcome, but this law is not a law against corruption. This is a law that institutionalises corruption in an unprecedented form in Balkan spaces. Nothing that existed earlier in the legal order has helped corruption as much as the provisions of this law, as all are now at the mercy of Minister Djelic and that of Aleksandr Radovic. What they decide on that day, what they will be or what their halo effect is when the one who should possibly come under the influence of the law appears will be. That modern legal order can't handle it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9479	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Bozidar Vujic. For 46, there were no abstentions against 117, of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Pal Shandor. National MP Pal Shandor has tabled an amendment to item 1, item 2, and item 4, in three individual amendments, and under Article 138(2). The Rules of Procedure of the People's Parliament cannot submit any more amendments to the same article of the bill, so that the three amendments tabled by MP Pal Shandor are joined into one and the amendment will be declared by the National Assembly. The Government, the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9480	Dear colleagues, what did I suggest? I have proposed a formula that is more general than what the government has proposed in its law, so I think it would be good to adopt it because I included a single formula for family, relative. If possible, Mr. Djelic, to look at this, because if the bonds are also said in the third position of the sixth member - the household is considered as a community of life in the sense of this law, the practice and spending of the income achieved - then one of the relatives will be able to say that it is no longer in the common household and that it is possible to avoid paying taxes. This is how I put it into practice: "The one-time taxpayer is also a relative, or member of a family and a household, who, using the special benefits of Article 2 of this Law, has made it possible to obtain income, i.e. property under conditions that have not been available to all citizens". It is then further said in this Article 6 that they are children, or adopters, and members of their families, parents, brothers, and sisters, members of their families, spouses, divorced spouses, relatives, and relatives of their family, etc. If we avoid this household, then we achieve that better formula. If possibly the Government still remains, I have not convinced you that it would be a good thing to adopt it, it is similar to Mr. Mamula's amendment, with him redecorating once again how these family and related relations are going and trying to formulate who is everything and who could be a taxpayer. If the text remains like this, then it will be said that there is no longer a common household, so that will be the reason possible for avoidance, possibly for litigation and I don't know what. I think it's more comprehensive to say that this applies to relatives, or family members and households, and then this is exactly what it says here by these members. So, the amendment is "Sin Iraet Studio" from good intentions, that there might be no disputes, that someone proves whether before the law was obtained they were in a joint household or not in a joint household, etc. If we say it's relatives, household members and family members, as it's been numbered here, I don't know what order it is, then it's really everyone who's in any kind of kinship. So these are all those who, apart from the basic taxpayers, appeared as owners of land, houses, apartments, etc. With that intention, this amendment of mine was proposed. The essence of what the law says becomes the same, but it leaves more room for more and more comprehensive interpretation and removes the possibility of excuses on various grounds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9481	Do the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has been given by MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9482	I would very much like to support the amendment of MP Pal Sandor, because he corrected the text of the provision of the law in question by explaining more detail what a relative means than a family member. Only Pal Shandor missed another element that would have to be covered by this logic, which is the element of a friend. What's the difference between a relative and a friend who's been given property benefits? This morning, Cedomir Jovanovic, I think, was talking about how everyone has the right to give someone something, and there's a 3% tax value, 5%, it doesn't matter. I don't like to receive gifts, I don't like to give gifts, and it doesn't matter, 5%. Someone who gets a gift legally would have to be subjected to this logic under this law. Let me try one particular example to point out. You all know Dragoljub Markovic, the owner of the company "Krmivoproduct". He loves his friends to give and he, for example, gives Djindjic a house in Banovci, presents to Cedi Jovanovic a racing horse, etc. Dragoljub Markovic must come under the influence of this law, because we remember him from the age of Agrobanka, when he took huge loans, that hyperinflation devalued, he got rich, the bank collapsed. He has to come under attack and he says, when he comes to Minister Djelic, he does, he says, that's when I got a huge benefit, but I didn't save it all. I spent part of it and now no one can find it, part of it holds my family, and part I gave to my friends. Djelic takes this law, too list, here doesn't apply to friends, friends get gifts, enjoy those gifts, pay taxes, because I know people, and I don't believe they'd take anything without paying taxes, God forbid. Then how in that case? Where are the friends who got expensive gifts from the people to whom the law applies? There are many of them in Serbia. What did you miss? About friends not to talk, we won't talk anymore. No more, and that one sexual affair is making us sick, so don't let us open it anymore. We're talking about friends in principle. Does Minister Djelic have an answer to this question? What about friends of the people who come under the influence of the law, who got big gifts, huge gifts, paid taxes on gifts, and now they enjoy those gifts nicely? How can they be brought under this law when Minister Djelic did not foresee any provision.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9483	Because of the poor interpretation of the replicas, MP Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9484	I'm not always politically productive when I'm praised by Mr. Seselj. Unlike him, this amendment I came up with to be serious, and he's more through irony and humor trying to point to these other cases. So the fundamental difference between what we want to do here today is that I really want to fix the text of the law on purpose. You took a little chance to ironify and to hit the government along the way, to ask what could possibly be, whether it was founded or unfounded to be yet subject to taxation. My intention really isn't that, I really think anyone can give anyone what they want, if they think they should give it to him. It's his sovereign right. This wasn't about taxation, it wasn't about gifts and who, why and for whatever it was about, but about how it comes into advantage and how it takes advantage if it belongs to someone, as it would say, a wider family or a circle of relatives. It was typical cases. Therefore, if the law manages to address these most typical cases, without, as I would say, doses of irony and evil intentions, then we will achieve our goal. Therefore, I ask you to only interpret my intentions as I thought. I meant "Son of Ira et Studio," so, most well-meaning. There was no reason for irony with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9485	National MP Vojislav Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9486	Mrs. Komic, this is a discussion of details. The amendments of the MPs are being discussed exclusively here. Once again, you have not given the right to the People's MP to replicate anyone who speaks of his amendment. Now you've done it. Especially since you saw for yourself that there is no irony in my presentation because I supported the amendment of Pal Shandor and sought expansion. My criticism was that the amendment was not and spread, which was only relatives and not friends, if it can be proved that friends received enormous gifts, enormous expensive gifts, and there was no irony. That's where you were supposed to intervene. If MPs will have a future right to match the heads of parliamentary groups in the debate on amendments, then it should have every MP, not just one. This is the precedent that you have made and I now expect, after this precedent, that every MP, when the heads of Parliament's groups finish their presentation, has the right to answer them because they all talk about his amendment. I wasn't talking about Pal Shandor. I was talking about what Pal Shandor wrote in his amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9487	Apart from the fact that there was no quote of the member, but we understood, it was a member of the Rules of Procedure who had the right to receive a word during the debate on amendments to the draft law. The decision that the MP, who is also the applicant of the amendment, that the word was found during today's day by the argument of the MPs, who said that in the case of poor interpretation, the MP had the right to receive a replica. If you want to vote for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Does the MP want to vote for the violation of the Rules of Procedure? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Do you give me one minute? ( ) First of all, should we end the breach, first of all, do you want to vote on the fact that the Rules of Procedure has been broken? (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: If you give me an explanation, we do not have to vote. () First of all, do we know whether to vote, turn to vote, or not? No, I don't. ) Is there anyone else reporting under the amendment to article 6, which was submitted by MP Pal Shandor? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment of MP Shandor Pal to the vote. For 101, against 34, four of the 188 MPs present were abstained. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment to the 6th National MP, Pal Shandor. The 6th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, George Mamul. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. ) National MP George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9488	I really don't know why he wasn't accepted here. Article 3 mentions family members, and this was accepted by the government as an amendment and this came into the government's proposal. I don't know why they wouldn't support it. As far as attitude four is concerned. "Availability and harvesting" are expressions that express their own attitude towards income. Taxes explained that spending is a tax term, so it should have an advantage over picking and making it available. I think spending is too high, if the amendment is made available and collected. There is also spending, and collecting means collecting income, not just spending. Therefore, in some language order, i.e. in the legal - technical, spending could be deleted, and it could remain as I have suggested, and therefore I urge you all to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9489	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9490	Since Article 3 has taxed out all cases which are subject to the application of this law, some cases may be established on the basis of official records of the National Bank or of any other State body. However, there are cases that cannot be determined in this way. For example, when making some representative objects, exclusive and so on. Then what do you apply to it? There is an estimate of the wealth found, the titler and his relatives, and friends are released, who have also defiled themselves by some illegal act and so on, but what is worst, this law punishes people who have acquired, once against the law, most legally, legally according to this law or in that gray zone, so they collect into a pile, so it is seen from some evidence, huge houses, more houses, summer houses, cottages, angry cars, and so on. But how, then, to commit under this law to those who were hedonists by nature, they preferred to list those money in casinos in Monte Carlo or in some other exclusive places, those who gave themselves a bath in cafes, who loved sweet life and so on. So the very fact that this problem from the field of criminal law is being transferred to the field of tax law leaves a whole series of cases not covered by this law, although, by the principle of justice and justice, everyone should be covered. If it goes the other way, if it goes through a criminal investigation in all cases of misbehavior and material gain, then the person who wrote down his property in time also responds. And according to this law, only the one who was private was a lifesaver and kept safe. Now, you see, you lawyers especially, where it's fairer and where it's more normal from the point of view of the legal order to be brought under the influence of the law. Whether where someone, though, was using various advantages and collecting on a pile or where someone, using various advantages, fell to the will.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9491	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. It is my duty to warn, following the Rules of Procedure, of the obligations of members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly when it comes to the vote on amendments, that the National Assembly adopted by its last decision an amendment to Article 6 tabled by MP Pal Shandor. At this point, by adopting the amendments, that Article 6 in the original text had its first position - a single tax official is also a member of a family who, using the special benefits of Article 2 of this Law, has made it possible to obtain income, i.e. property under conditions that have not been available to all citizens. This position 1 has been changed and now reads "The obligor of a one-time tax and a relative, i.e. a member of a family and a household, who, using the special benefits set out in Article 2 of this Act, has made it possible to obtain income, i.e. property under conditions that have not been available to all citizens. "In the same Article 6, the amendment adopted by the National Assembly, item 2 is changed, from the original - one-time tax, as a solidizer, owes a natural person who is a member of the taxpayer's household, to a - one-time tax as a solider takeover, due the natural persons of Article 1 of this article. Paragraph 3 of this Article shall remain the same as the original text, and paragraph 4 of the amendment has been deleted. This warning is due to the fact that we are now on the agenda, since no one is answering for a word anymore, the vote on the amendment, where Articles 6 and 4 of the same article refers to the original text of the law. So we have a situation where, in the event that the Assembly accepts this amendment, we have two amendments to the same text with the conflict, because the amendment of MP Gjorge Mamula refers to the position 4 which the Assembly has deleted from the text of the law by adopting amendments to MP Pal Shandore. He has the government's representative, Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9492	Given that, as Mr. Pal Shandor said earlier, the precision that has been made identical is very close to what Mr. Mamula has suggested, by the fact that these changes that have occurred and which are now moving into the position of the first member are very close. The only new thing that has been added to this amendment in this case is to add to the tax list that was proposed - the paternal relatives. If Mr. Mamula had accepted the proposal that the taxing members of the families who are extensive here, we have a fairly broad notion of family, the proposal is if you agree, and that there is no stalemate, that you give up this amendment, because the content is contained in the change that Mr. Pal Shandor suggested, and the National Assembly adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9493	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I find that MP Gjorge Mamula has withdrawn the amendment to Article 6 in full, leaving behind the amendment vote. The National Assembly cannot vote on the part of the amendment. It can adopt or reject amendments in general, according to the Rules of Procedure and how we are obliged to vote on amendments. That part of the procedure had to be carried out in agreements with the Legislative Committee, the competent and parent committee, as well as representatives of the government. Once again, does the MP George Mamula remain on his way to withdraw his amendment? Yeah. ) I find that MP Gjorge Mamula has withdrawn the amendment to Article 6 in full, leaving behind the amendment vote. The MPs would have to believe that the chairman of the assembly, when he says the facts about the assembly session, is telling the truth. Therefore, if I said that the MP had withdrawn the amendment, I said so on the basis of direct contact with the MP. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MPs Stevan Kesejic, Slobodan Janjic, Natasa Jovanovic, Stjevo Dragisic and Petar Jojic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9494	Our amendment refers to Article 6, in which we ask that the point be deleted in point 3. Three, four, five and six. I have to do it for the public, because you're not following anything here or what the draft bill of law contains, to say what those points are in the position of Article 6 of this law. So, a one-time tax as a solidary borrower owes a natural person who is a member of the taxpayer's household. Item 3 says - members of the taxpayer's family within the meaning of this law are considered, and point 3 is what we dispute, brothers and sisters and members of their families, then the 4th spouse, the 5th divorced spouses, the 6th relatives by the matrimonial to the second degree relatives, including relatives. The explanation I have given for such an amendment is that family members cannot be regarded as those who are not within the meaning of the Law on Marriage and Family. However, since such a back-up specialis is such a law on extra income tax is quite contrary to the basics of the tax system, the Constitution, the republican and federal, I am not surprised that you have made such a legal project in this article, i.e. that this member is also contrary to the Law on Marriage and Family and the Law on Inheritance. It comes practically into an unacceptable situation, and I would say an abnormal situation, that, let's say, a divorced spouse, who is in a divorce case or in an out-of-party procedure, which is usually wives, to whom such a situation happens, regulated which is part of their property, and now, according to your legal project, they come under the influence of the law. Indeed, it is incomprehensible that the secretary of the Republic Legislative Secretariat, Mrs. Biserka Zivkovic, who happens to be the wife of still current MUP Minister Zoran Zivkovic, is giving such legal projects to the National Assembly, as well as the resolution minister. One logical question arises: if you were to apply this law to everything equally, if you didn't make a selection, which is precisely your intention, which we talked a lot about in the principle debate and the amendments, what would happen if you stayed these four points with those taxpayers and those who earned extra profit and extra income by getting money from the American Congress, and that's already known to everyone from before. Two years ago, the exact data was published for all those who were your media Mags, propagated your dossier policy, what would happen to those who were getting huge money, millions of dollars from the Soroš Fund, from the American Congress, to act against the interests of their country and their people, to spread the psychological-propaganda war, to act subversively in the conditions of war, the aggression of the NATO Pact, what would happen to those you consider to be taxpayers, which are brothers and sisters, mates, divorced spouses, relatives in the Tasun and others who can say - we have long given up such traitors. They're black sheep in our families and we don't want to have anything to do with them. We don't want to participate in what they've done ever. I think it is necessary for such an amendment to be adopted, because the whole law is against the constitution and because today the head of the DOS parliamentary group, in its ignorance, has, in his ignorance, said another one in a series of nonsense, and that is because it is also that it is first taxed by someone who is considered a taxpayer, in the sense of one of the members of this law, and then that this property is taken away from him, and he mentioned some apartments, if they are not assigned in accordance with the law. You'd have to take a little more care of what you're doing, and about what you're saying, and above all, if you didn't get involved in these unblessing legal projects, the members of your spouse's family, the divorced spouse, because yesterday it showed up in the National Assembly that nothing was sacred to you, it wasn't your holy family, it wasn't your holy nor your people's MPs, which you could have done yesterday (by your order the service of security) to drag, to the quote, and to deal with the most brutally with political insolents, or Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9495	A little courtesy wouldn't hurt. Do the other applicants of the amendment want a word? There is a word from the Messenger of the People, Slobodan Janjic. I ask the MPs to listen in peace and in the cultural atmosphere.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9496	The government calls for this law to be the subject of this political robbery to be all those who don't think like DOS. In Article 6, you list divorced, divorced mate and his near relatives as members of the family, even further relatives in the case are involved, i.e. the subject of the application of this law. You can tax your aunt, and you can marry your uncle, he's not your cousin, is he? Which is why this law is not the subject of "Elhald-Comerc", for example, is one chipratic firm, with which Mr. Marshall Covic has been supplying Kosovo with sugar, flour, oil, drugs, construction materials all the time, etc. 100 speedboats a day, a racket has been paid on our side and the Shiptar side. It's not taxing, is it, Minister? It's not intended for Gicky's friend, the owner of product control, to be subject to taxation under this law. Even the government has installed the gentleman mentioned in "Blood Product" in one of its amendments. It's the only thing that didn't stick his picture in the text. If your intentions were honorable, the importance of this law would not be limited by the day of adoption. Apparently, what the government is doing now is not a robbery, but a transparent kidnapping. Article 6 of this law says: "The one-time tax liability is also a member of the family, who, taking advantage of the special benefits of Article 2 of this Law, has made it possible to obtain income, or property under conditions that have not been available to all citizens". This is not accurate at all and can be interpreted as anyone will. Here this gentleman keeps saying-- not all of them. Well, not everyone can. He'll recognize himself. Not all of them can, but someone can, after one 70,000-marked jeep destroyed, buy another in 15 days, for 120,000 marks, register it as a protest against a member of the family's ropes, and in all that time, it defiantly comes out for this pay phone and sniffing, as if it were coming from the Himalayas. He's got a cold man and he's always sniffing, but something weird.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9497	I ask the MP, that these epithets and adjectives are not used, and with his behaviour and non-verbal communication he tries to respect others.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9498	Just talk to me, but figure out your time and stop my watch, and I'll listen to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9499	It's not a problem time, the problem's a way. I remind you of the obligation of all of us to treat each other culturally and politely.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9500	And who did you recognize, Madam Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9501	The movement, the movement of non-verbal communication, which is not a worthy speaker of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9502	I don't think any moves are regulated by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9503	They're regulated by personal culture and domestic education. I hope so, and I'm sure that you, as a folk MP, who is from a beautiful part of Serbia, have both a personal culture and a home education, and I would ask you to demonstrate it here. You've got a minute more.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9504	Will the DOS MP be taxed, who presented for this speaker the information that he had brought the capital to Hungary and now has his own company there. Whose money did the MP from DOS bring out, and which positive law was it regulated to move his capital to Hungary? The application of this law is a special story. Two people decide everything. Several daily papers have released information that Bozidar Djelic, finance minister and director of Public Revenue Management Aleksandar Radovic, who will decide everything, imported from France without an excise stamp. When we add to all this that this law was signed by Deputy Prime Minister Zarko Korać, who does not hide his proclivities, it will turn out to be legal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9505	I also ask the MPs, and the speaker, once again, that we all respect the Rules of Procedure together and respect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9506	Finally, at the same time, you should also remind the speakers of the Radical Party and the other MPs. Thank you for that. It particularly irritates the period covered by this law, or the time at which extra property is acquired, and is subject to this immoral law. Extra profit acquired by the Blackbers from 1941 to 1945, then the communists 1945 to 1988, then the people of power, from 1988 to 5 October 2000, and also these turbo-rich ones from 5 October 2000 to today, were rapidly enriched. As you imagine the law of one-time taxation, your intention is to translate all these high-ranking financial criminals into your ranks and, under suspicious circumstances, to divide the money from the people, because if your intentions were not such, your offenders would not be able to negotiate with Mr. Djelic and Mr. Radovic, they would have all gone to prison. The only motive that this law is limited to a period of 13 years is that the parents of individual ministers and vice-presidents of the government, until the eighth session, were in power in the Stambolic camp, and then they gained huge capital (I mean Mr. Vesenov and others). After the Eighth Sessions, they were in the power of the unmerciful, so that their temporary wealth would not be counted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9507	Anyone else want a word? There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9508	The amendment of the MPs of Natasa Jovanovic and Slabodan Janjic is very serious and should be considered, should be taken first, and not laughed about the amendment. Why-- because it's a 6th full of all kinds of nebulises. Whoever wrote this law shows Article 6 has no idea about the Family Relations Act and has no idea about the Inheritance Act. You see, if this amendment is not accepted, what does Article 6(2) mean? He says, "A one-time tax as a solidary borrower owes a natural person who is a member of the taxpayer's household. "The vast majority of you who are ready to vote for this bill have no idea what a solid-ass laureate is. You should make that clear to yourself first. The solidar jet is responding to his entire assets for the one he's taking for something, on some basis. You see now, what this legal provision can produce in practice. For example, to give up the father's papers, to immediately apply for divorce, you see another case from the practice that Vice President Zarko Korac and his minister Djelic had to think about on time. I will only give an example of two brothers, one of whom is the director of a large social enterprise, as well as the one provided for in Article 3. For his company, he has benefited on all sides from the primary show, buying foreign exchanges per course, from the Development Fund, in all possible ways that the law provides. His company shared it with the workers, it went to bad projects, the money went down, etc. Now Djelic, the director who may already be retired, calls for responsibility, and he may not have gotten anything special in life, and now he lives off that pension, the church girl who arrives from time to time. And he lives with his brother in the same house, his brother got married rich. A woman brought a huge dowry, a Mercedes, and I'm saying this to make an example as striking as possible. Now Minister Djelic tells this brother who was the director, you owe so much and so much, if you don't have that money as a solid, your brother with whom you live in the same house has to pay. Where's the logic? So again, these two DOS lawyers, why don't they say something about, let's see how they as lawyers can once and for all hair on four to tear up, how they look at this, this provision that has to be a solid match for the closest relative, a member of the household, on which basis, a member of the family and his brother's wife must be solid, and the brother's children. Based on what? You know, and the tattoo, who knows how far it goes, I can't even read it here. Now, what does that mean? Instead of running a criminal case against the one who wronged the law, so that within the criminal case, he was first found stolen, so when he was found to have stolen, to determine where the money he stole went. To identify exactly who he's with, and then whoever's got the money stolen has to pay back. Like the one who buys the stolen car, he has to get the car back, that's what logic requires. Legal logic. Nothing's being questioned here. It's enough here that someone as director of a social enterprise took money from the Development Fund, from the primary show, took foreign exchanges per course, and the foreign exchanges were listed by his firm, and now, according to Article 6, his relatives have to respond. Where's the base? I don't mind if someone stole the money, so he handed it over to his cousin or stole some real estate and adopted an illegal property, so he passed it on to his cousin, that a relative must return what was taken, that it was stolen. He can't be held responsible for the moment of his cousin's lack of thought... (President: five minutes and ten seconds. )......................................................................................................... Even at the time it wasn't easy thinking, it was the usual manners of behavior. He fought for his social enterprise, to make the workers better there, and now his relatives have to answer, neither onion eaten nor onion smelled. Come on, if there's anyone who can explain the legal... (President: 5 minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... Provisions, maybe we're voting for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9509	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Bozidar Djelic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9510	Well, of course you're thinking about the other thing, what Mr. Seselj was talking about. Of course you're thinking about those cases where something was translated, as you can see from Article 5 from what was supposed to stay in a social enterprise, some private faces. Of course, this member is trying to cover up all those who did this, they could have thought of hiding their private assets or that income by transferring it to the parts of their family. And not on those cases where that income and that property was left in the company. No family, no matter how rich she is, she shouldn't be afraid. This isn't crazy, this is a very well thought out law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9511	The basis for the replica? (Employer from the place: he misread me. He didn't interpret your words well? (Employee from the site: Do not look at the sign Srdja Popovic gives you. I've only been looking at you for days. (Employer from the place: He misread my words and mentioned my name as the author of those words. Here you go. National MP Vojislav Seselj, a replica of the presentation of Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9512	What Minister Djelic was saying, it refers to attitude 1. I was talking about attitude 2 with regard to the solidarity of the emancipators. He's not a solid eater of a man who's benefited from illegal or similar behavior. He's a solid laureate with the very fact that he's related under this law. That's the problem. If you didn't mean it that way, find a lawyer so he can formulate for you what you thought. I'm just looking at what you wrote, what you thought I wasn't interested in. This is about solidarity, solidarity, not based on the enjoyment of the benefits of some shop, but by the status itself, by the fact of kinship.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9513	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Then I put amendments to Article 6 which were submitted in the same text by MPs Stevan Kesejić, Slobodan Janjic, Natasa Jovanovic, Stevo Dragisic and Petar Jojic. For 48, against 123 abstentions, there was no vote of 14, a total of 185 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Jankovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9514	Point 5 of this amendment is badly formulated, but I must admit that the amendment is even worse. Point 5 states divorced spouses, and the amendment proposes to be divorced mates. No one here thinks when there's been a divorce. Maybe someone divorced 10 or 20 years ago, has to stay with a divorced spouse under the same roof, because they can't share an apartment and because of the fact that they live in the same house, in the same apartment, it's unproven now who's a member of the household and who's not, if it's the same apartment. Sometimes they have lunch together, maybe they're in friendly relationships, maybe they have kids, there's cases like that. They live almost as normal as husband and wife, but in one respect they are not husband and wife. You know, there are cases like that. This amendment is useful, just because it points to another possible case in practice, which you haven't thought about, which can produce extremely bad consequences for someone who has absolutely no responsibility. Sometimes a man is closer to his housekeeper than a divorced woman who's left to live under the same roof. It is simply a matter that neither the finance minister nor the director of the Republic Public Revenue Administration can clearly distinguish. This is something that can possibly only be courted. And there's no contradiction in the process or anything. They simply bring people to them, and whoever goes into their office swallows them dark. There is no official record or lawyer present to him, nor is there any possibility of opposing the self-will of the executive authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9515	National MP Dragan Tomic, as representative of the parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9516	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, the proposing of this amendment, Jankovic Milan, in one part, wanted to make a bit of technical regulation more specific, and also to warn. Obviously, attitude two is pretty undefined. When we talk about divorced mates, we really didn’t talk about the moment of divorce. It is a well - known fact that when marriage mates are divorced, in most cases children belong to their mother. A good part of our practice is also related to an ugly phenomenon, that the issue of child support is often solved by judicial means. This is where you enter a space that can be one piece and dangerous when it comes to solidarity. So, the very fact of the former marriage introduces a guarantee in one part, even though a divorced mate is remarried, he gets married better. It is not possible to draw from this fact a certain bond of guarantee, but rather a desire to specify technical, and also to draw attention to these details that can, in itself, lead to even more complicated relations when applying this law. In doing so, this law is a rather vague basis for which it is based. The feet are clear. You know how much money you want. But the basics aren't clear. In doing so, I say it comes from just one fact, but we'll talk about it later in the debate. There's no cost of legal work anywhere, no customs payments, no purchase value, no difference between two values that can serve as a basis. Then we come to the situation that once with a very dry matter and applying this rate, in one situation, because there has been a change in a certain state, that by not having the elements from which to charge the taxpayer can be made, we enter the field of guarantee and then we even get a divorced spouse. So from what Mr. Seselj was saying, and some previous MPs and attempts to make certain amendments, it seems to me that Mr. Mamula had one logical thought in that direction, a little precision of certain details, remained here on the ground quite undefined relationships. Even to get a flat-rate assessment of who's going to fit in with solidarity. When it comes to solidarity, it can be a very narrowed category, because it stems from elements of personal and family relations and is in the field of family rights. It seems to me that when the definition was carried out in this law, it did not look closely enough into that area and that no quality protection was made for certain persons who cannot do their own actions, especially when it comes to attitude 2, it contributes that a person who had a privileged relationship to obtain a single tax will be held accountable by the fact that they are divorced mates or members of a narrow or wider family household, persons who need to be taxed. So this is a very prosaic model, a very dangerous model. I am warning of this fact for the reason why we can come to the conclusion that someone who did not participate on any basis in the exercise of authority or the creation of benefits from which they draw foundations under this law, and by the very fact of family relations or any other relationship that is related to this status, comes into the situation that as a solid borrower pays for something that has nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9517	If no one is answering for a word anymore, I would like to put the amendments to article 6 submitted by MP Milan Jankovic. For 37, against 34, there were none, 26 voted, out of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose an amendment to Article 6(3), paragraph 6, to be deleted from the proposal as a whole. I'll read point 6 - "Familys by the Tassium, to the second degree of kinship, including relatives by the masculine through a divorced spouse." In practice, such cases do not occur, especially relatives in the case of divorced spouses. I think this point should be deleted, because it's funny, knowing what's going on in practice, that someone's meeting tomorrow on the line of relatives of a divorced spouse. I don't think it makes any sense to stand at point six, and that's why I suggested that this be deleted. Since you have a majority, it has been suggested not to accept this amendment of mine. I would take the time and opportunity to say that we here are not just talking about taxes, that there are urgent questions to talk about, so in one minute I will take the opportunity to ask Minister Djelic a question. That money is not only taxed in this country, but that it can be exported, so I am taking the opportunity to ask Minister Djelic a question -- these days there are frequent roadblocks in Merošina and Prokuplje, by agricultural cloud cherries producers. Last year, one kilo was 25 - 26 dinars. This year it's 21 dinars. Eight loaves could be bought for one kilo of cherry, and two this year. Why doesn't the government help buy, when this is an export product and the state can get to the currency. (President: I ask the MP to return to Article 6. Mr. Peric, there is an institution of parliamentary matters. ) On tractors of farmers who are on the roads these days, it says - Djindjic, send bulldozers to rip out cherries.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9519	MP Vojislav Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9520	This is really scary that even the bag comes under the influence of the law. For example, one of those who could objectively negotiate because of certain illegal actions and obtaining illegal benefits when they were married may have donated the tas even now, if it was all in accordance with the law, the tariff should be returned. What if the father-in-law gave his daughter-in-law a dowry when he married his daughter, and now he still has to comply with this law for the sons-in-law's business ventures, conditionally stated if the son-in-law was, for example, the director of a social enterprise, so he was able to benefit his employees from the primary show money. Now his father-in-law, who at the time married his daughter-in-law to the son-in-law of the director-in-law, feels that he will catch his daughter well, suddenly has to be responsible for the sons-in-law's business ventures. Maybe your father-in-law will answer, but why would a sister-in-law answer? May Minister Djelic and Deputy Prime Minister Zarko Korac answer to the public why the swastika should respond. In our literature, Branislav Nušić and "svastika's thigh" did not have such grotesque legal provisions and there was no such mockery of the legal order. Explain why the swastika is responding, so maybe you can convince us to vote for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9521	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has Dragan Tomic as a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9522	Point 6, for which erasure is sought, refers to relatives in the case until the second degree of kinship, including relatives in the case through a divorced spouse. I don't even know what's left of the family relations in Serbia, yet the godmothers only that we've lined up the godmothers and there's nothing left. When we put all this into solidarity, then responsibility under this law can be lower on the whole family. I think from this moment on, those who know about some of their own should pay this tax turn around and start thinking about what they need to add to pay this tax. A joke aside, but definitely getting into such a wide circle of procedures, in an area that talks about solidistic jitters, it's really groundless. It can only be spoken in that part, and this member makes sense when talking about a person who has been using special conveniences to obtain property. It can only be spoken when it comes to family members and, let's say, to a second degree of kinship, and everything else is already on the ground -- provided that by using that person, these benefits have itself some extra profits, and then we can't talk, but then we can't come to the field -- solidarity responsibilities. Therefore, it makes sense that this amendment is adopted and that we do not enter into this wide diapason of people who can be covered by this law and it is not funny what is said, but it seems to me that we do not really come to that Nusic's "svastikin but" and "squeaked dynasty".
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9523	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting on the vote by the amendments submitted by MP Hranislav Peric to article 6. For 49, against 122, there were no abstentions from 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Mr. Seselj has the word as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9524	Bozidar Vujic's amendment refers to Article 7, which is also extremely grotesque and should not remain in legal traffic. See what Article 7: If a legal person has made extra profits, then it ceases to exist, liquidated, his former founder now corresponds to this law and suffers consequences. Legal persons are also formed so that individuals would not be irrevocably responsible for their business ventures. Responsibilities are transferred to a legal person and corresponds to the property of a legal person, so that no man would risk his entire assets for every business failure. Why else would an individual form an enterprise and why not do business on his own? That's why you wouldn't be responsible for the consequences of your business until the end. As an individual, he is only responsible for possible crimes. If his company fails and goes into liquidation, there's a liquidation procedure, there's a liquidation mass, it's all the law set out precisely, and when the company is liquidated he's no longer responding for anything. The company was also liquidated because he has taken as many risks as he has already risked and sacrificed and lost. He's right about his property. For example, there are 100,000 marks and says - I keep 50,000 marks for the reserve, for my house, for my family, and I invest 50,000 marks in the company, in the company, in the legal face. It goes down, the company goes down on the market, suffers losses, and he runs out of company, runs out of 50,000 marks. Maybe the company had some more debts and he's not in charge of those debts if these debts were made in accordance with the law. So he didn't intend to cheat, kidnap, deceive, and so forth. to commit a crime, to obtain some illegal benefit. He said -- I tried to do business, I failed, I sacrificed so much, the company failed, it was liquidated. How now? Maybe his company was liquidated 10 years ago. How can he now answer for anything under this law and suffer material consequences? That's impossible. You're going to embarrass yourself with this law. I know what you're gonna do. For the first 10, the first 50 or the first 100, you're going to peel up to the naked skin, and then you won't be able to apply the law anymore, and then one day you're going to answer for anything against the constitutional application, and there was no constitutional court to verify constitutionality and legality. That's the point. How can you make a man responsible for a liquidated firm, for a liquid law firm? How can he be the founder of a match? He can't. He formed a legal person so he wouldn't answer without limit, and you're burdening him to answer indefinitely. That's absurd.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9525	The word is from Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9526	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a bad amendment and a good member of the law. It's not about this law to companies that have done business legally and failed and failed, but what we're going to do with those companies that had in advance intended to take advantage of the circumstances in which our society is located, formed companies with a pre-clear intention of failing, and to use the company's status to secure only certain privileges, counting that after the collapse everything will be forgotten. For four years in Serbia, excise duty is paid for 800 tonnes of cigarettes. Hundreds of companies exist in Serbia that were founded to import only once and then disappear. You have examples, it's not right that today we're talking about it, because we're not the people who got into the essence of that problem, but what about the example of NIS and the way he did business. Apparently, they say, breaking down and breaking the embargo. What about the numerous companies that are founded around the world and all the capital that is relevant to this society, in the name of the business of these companies around the world that today do not exist, which are only lost and no one has to answer for it? Of course, a legal person established by another legal person should be responsible for the business of that legal person, if they are the subject of this law. Those who have done business and failed should not be afraid of this, this law treats only those who have made advance calculations with the intention of tricking the state. It's so obvious. You of course have to twist it at any moment, it's politically effective. You're criticizing this bill, but there's no reason why we can't say that Sartid can be such a debt, that it's going down, and on the other hand he's building a football stadium, that he's got a football team, that he pays fees, and that he doesn't have a salary for the workers. And today when that football club fails, or tomorrow, no one needs to ask a question -- sorry, what happened to your business, where did you withdraw funds from, and who's answering for it today? Nobody. We failed, went into bankruptcy, and so did Rad. The construction company, Rad, what about his sister companies that are operating around the world and that have caused this loss, who should answer for it? This is just an attempt to sanction those who have abused the position in which they were placed under such an effective account, counting that they will never be asked that question. A good member of the law and we will support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9527	You have no right to a replica, Mr. Seselj, he explained the amendment and absolutely did not interpret you at all. I don't see, I see Chedomir from behind, I don't see who he's looking at, but I know, I followed closely, you don't have the right to a replica in accordance with Article 96(3), I don't allow you to have the right to a replica. The word has been made by Mr Branislav Ivkovic, but he has already had his word as a representative of the parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Tomic, following this amendment. Therefore, there is no word or Branislav Ivkovic, we are going to the vote. I put the amendment tabled by the MP... Didn't you? Just a moment, just to check, I was away, just to check. I apologize, Mr. Ivkovic, the word has Mr. Ivkovic as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9528	The Honorable Madam Chairman, I don't blame you, you're doing a responsible job and mistakes are possible, and when they're not intended, they're also forgiving. Here it is said for this speaker that this law does not apply to those who operate legally. That's not true at all. It is this law that has been designed to pursue extra profit tax, exclusively from those who have done business in legal flows. And it is the fundamental flaw of this law right here. The law was made for those who were operating in legal flows, based on a group of people sitting in the DOS government, to be declared to have earned extra profits and taxed. The fundamental flaw of this law is that it does not recognise the time of the embargo, which does not recognise the time someone purposely made in this bad community, to speed up the gray economy, to speed up the creation of a group of people who will become rich and directly influence the political activity of this country. And it is the problem of this law that he takes on himself to give individuals and the government of the Republic of Serbia the right to assess whether those who have acted according to the laws were working according to the same laws and it is a disaster of the legal system and constitutional order. This bill, which DOS made in its obvious intention to divide people into similar and unsuitable, when it takes action according to Article 9, is done precisely so that the verdicts take it upon themselves to say they are -- yes, you and you were doing it by law, but the law was not correct. Or to say, they worked past the law, but they were good conditions. That's what the fundamental flaw of this law is. To get back to Rada for example, so never work, a construction company wouldn't rule its company abroad if it wasn't for the embargo. No construction company would have formed a variety of companies from Madagascar through Moscow, so who knows, until Trinidad, if it hadn't been for the embargo. The builders had to manage, and fortunately for this people and this country, as agriculture, unlike this year, at the time of the embargo they worked phenomenally, so did construction. Construction is also how it realised $800 million in the hottest embargo, annually. But you know how? They worked through fake accounts, fake companies, personal names that were and how they were controlled by the National Bank of Yugoslavia. Whoever in that porridge tried it, answer it. Don't speak ill of the builders because the builders brought this country and income much more than the state now does when it's free, loved by the entire international community. You have a 30% drop in exports this year compared to last year. What's the result of the work? This amendment here speaks directly of it, can't someone who's been saving their business, run his company, sold that company, and someone else who's been unwittingly doing business, and why would that predecessor answer? You have many arbitrary solutions to this bill. The idea is great, it's not all-inclusive, it chases only the institutional part of the system, but it doesn't hit a lot of people who, by smuggling, have become rich in crime, have their foreign exchanges under the grains, don't mess with them at all. The same thing is here, you now as you were chasing ex-wife, fifth knee, now you're chasing someone who had a firm and doing a good job, and tomorrow whoever took it, he's doing a bad job, he's gone, and now he needs a predecessor to answer. It's nonsens. One more thing, if the law is great, which would not be valid in the future, why not tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, but until yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9529	We don't have any more sign-ins. I put the amendments to Article 7 to vote. The bill was submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic. For 50, against 120, one out of 184 members of parliament were detained. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. ) The word has a People's MP, Miomir Ilic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9530	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted the amendment to Article 8, with the proposal to point 5, reads: "The value of imports, i.e. exports to customs regulations, after reducing the costs incurred to achieve revenue". The explanation is next. Article 8 provides for tax bases and there are some 19 points. One of these points is that I have been defined to submit the amendment, because I believe that, in addition to a series of remarks the MPs have made about this law, and in the discussion of the law in principle, there are certain mistakes here and that we should correct it, although the whole law is problematic both from the aspect of the Constitution and from the aspect of its application, in terms of deadlines - as of 1 January 1989, and not some others. I suggested that it be unarmed. I have advocated and I will argue that everything that has been wrongly obtained will be taxed, for which there are certain legal rules, such as the Income Tax Act, the Property Tax Act and the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ. So this text just complements it. Behind the existing text, it would be stuck and added - after reducing the costs incurred from the achievement of the revenue. We can't, if a company or a natural person has imported some goods or performed some service, taxing it, means if in such a way extra income and property has been obtained, under special benefits and benefits, that we are now taxing the costs that apparently go into that matter. What are those costs? First of all, there are customs costs, then transport costs, loading, unloading, other manipulative costs that occur in that category. This argument that although assets or income have been acquired from import-export transactions, those costs should be reduced which should not go into such acquired assets, under certain benefits and benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9531	Mr. Seselj, as president of the parliamentary group, spoke for his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9532	This amendment is involved, as it relates to retroactive taxation of imports and exports under the contingent or quota regime. It immediately raises the question of what are the special benefits of obtaining contingents or quotas. All the special benefits could have been just a felony. We know there's been a lot of crimes here. The most common crime was bribery. Some who decided to assign contingents or quotas took the money, and some referred interested, even for their sports clubs to pay certain amounts. In my day, I also made public remarks about these cases. And press conferences. That's what it was. But it must be investigated, because some who received quotas and contingents already had to pay a lot of money. I would listen to them all and bring them to a dilemma or they would confess everything and tell who they were and what they paid to get the quota, or to bear responsibility themselves if that quota was wrong or the contingent was wrongly assigned. However, like this, an block, all lead to the same plane seems to be a new great injustice. Earlier, Cedomir Jovanovic said that this law sanctioned something from the past, but then he must change his name and be the law on punishing those and those. Because taxes can't be sanctions. It's not a tax fine. Tax is a contribution that every citizen pays to the state by a certain criterion, by personal wealth, by material condition, by profit, by this or that. The tax on citizens contributes to the state. It's an honor to pay taxes. 200 years or 150 years ago, only those who pay taxes could go to the elections. Tax can't be punishment. And you've turned tax here into punishment. For you, it's a penalty tax. It can't. Then you should have appointed this law as a repression law and that, that is, the law on punishing it and that. Oh, no, the one-time tax law. Please, where taxes are paid once except when it comes to sales tax. Tax is one permanent category. Not one-time tax is paid for something from the past. By the same criteria, you can pass a birth tax law, so your hair has been born over the past 12 years to tax. That's ridiculous. Now, look, there's something else going on about this amendment. You were saying, when you explained this law, that many of the government's foreign exchanges sold from the NBJ reserve in the official course, which was several times cheaper than the market. It wasn't a market course, it was a criminal course. In a criminal manner established. That course can't be valorized afterwards. But it doesn't matter. Customs matters, because it's about this point 5 on imports and exports. Customs are paid by this official course -- 6 dinars for one mark. Well, then, it didn't occur to you to recalculate all customs according to the course that was in place at that time. If you can make the exchanges available to the NBJ, or using these exchange rates per course to tax, then you have to tax, the same logic requires, and the one who imported the goods and paid customs duty per rate of 6 dinars per mark. Or some other course that wasn't real. Please, and when it was imported on the basis of the quota, customs duties were paid. The quota was an import permit. The quota and contingent concerned only certain types of goods whose imports were limited or exported. Now, there's a privilege of participating in the quota, but it's a privilege and paying customs. I'm asking a question, you should listen carefully, as it never occurred to you to recalculate that customs duty. Privilege is also paying customs on the official course, rather than on the real course. It's a privilege of the same kind, because not everyone imported. Only the privileged could import. They had two privileges. The first is the privilege of quotas, i.e. contingents, and the second is paying customs duty per course. So kill them completely, tax them on two grounds. Because it is all in line with the basic principles that extend throughout the legal text, or quasi legally, because this will certainly never look like a serious law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9533	The word has a minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9534	In one thing, we have to agree with the person who just spoke, which is that it should be an honor to pay taxes in our country. Because a country where you don't pay a regular, normal tax is a country that doesn't have a future. In order for such a tax to be paid, the state must gain trust in both citizens and businesses. We're trying to restore that trust as soon as possible. As a result, the tax system, which you voted a few weeks ago, has already been a good part of it in the former system, but has been upgraded and improved, today offers low rates among the lowest in Europe, but of course for poor economy and for our impoverished citizens each rate is high. Just because our economy is so weak today, because of the policy that has led us to this situation, which our citizens, our countrymen so poored, such a policy and such a regime, which has led them to a begging stick, this tax is not a punishment, but it must be a lesson. As a result, it is essentially different and must differ from regular taxes. It must be realistic, as I have noted in the opening statement, and it must enter into the substance of what has been taken through inappropriate privileges, at the moment our people have entered ever greater poverty, and the economy has fallen ever more and more. Yeah, these rates are so high. They must be so, and our people understand it very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9535	Mr Branislav Ivkovic, as president of the parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9536	Dear Mr. Djelic, I'm really very glad that you just spoke for this speaker, because indeed a man can't help but feel that what you and the MPs of DOS are proposing is true, legal and just. And here, I'm going to give you an example -- joining you that it's a real commitment of every citizen, who wants him and his family, his children, to be treated properly, and to have a pension, and to go on a quality road when driving a car, to have their children go to school, to really pay their taxes. But do you know, Mr. Djelic, that the parties who elected you to the government, while in opposition, called for civil disobedience, that they called, not only not to go to the military, but not to pay taxes, not to pay EPS, not to pay communal obligations and taxes of various kinds. They destroyed this tissue, and at the worst time the embargo on this country. And believe me, at the time of the embargo, when it was really hard and serious to run the state, the call of the parties that formed DOS was exactly to do the opposite of what you were now saying about this pay phone. Now, as far as trust is concerned, you know, if we're here in vain in January and February telling you it's not good for social freedoms, for freedom of the media, to abolish the electricity tax, that it's a good thing that TV Serbia gets money from EPS, and not from you, where trust in you is now, the citizens' trust, when you pay back taxes on an electric counter. Well, that's amazing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9537	Mr. Ivkovic, you can return to the topic, and the subject is an amendment to Article 8, to remind you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9538	This is an introduction to the subject. The subject is Amendment 49, MP of the SPS. He's talking about the following -- believe me, when I read the bill, I really thought the following: the law was done by people who didn't do any serious business in the economy, in the company, they didn't come up with and implement it all the way. Because the way it's written here, it looks like someone who's never done anything serious is thinking about doing it. You said that the basis for taxation is the value of imports, i.e. exports, according to customs regulations. Taco may have been up to something to get a contingent, of course, he owns the Criminal Law. But, as things stand, to make a little more jokes, it seems that socialists are subject to the law, and your tax law, and for you, DOS, there will be no recommendations on the rules of conduct, as it stands until yesterday, nothing will apply in the future. There's no one who can drive and import the goods without any expenses, people. How can you consider the basis for taxation, which is the value of exported or imported goods? So whoever exported the goods, and the goods have some value, he had to pay the costs of marketing in the state and the organ, he had to pay for the transport to the authorities, he had to have an agent there, who would find the buyer, must have expenses. And how can you consider the basis for taxing the total value of the goods without reducing costs? It was an even better example this morning-- we're talking about stock reserves. Please, what was the task of a stock reserve in a serious state? The government of the Republic of Serbia, if it is a serious state, is holding stock reserves to prevent price hikes, product manipulation, and it is deliberately releasing contingents to relevant businesses, to sell at cheap prices, to lower prices to prevent marifetteluke on the market. And you want to tax them now? People, ask those who know how to do the job and then write the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9539	He has the word of the deputy Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Mr. Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9540	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I understand the anxiety of the SPS MPs, including other parties, and we know very well why they are nervous. And I don't know why, they keep trying to get off this topic, saying something that's absolutely not true, and that's that someone called not to go to the military, that someone was doing this or that. We all know that's not true, we know very well who he is and what he did and who he called for. Every party that respects the state has always called for taxes, and that's what all the parties did, because we knew that the state wasn't you, but the state was older than your party, and than everyone else, so they always called for taxes to be paid, but not to respect the government. If we're talking about imports and exports, if someone made a profit by exporting wheat from a furniture company, they have to pay for it. This law will be sanctioned, whether you agree with it or not, whether you like it or not, but it will be sanctioned in all ways, and not only this law. I would really like to go back to discussing this law, about these amendments, not to worry about the various topics, which are not the place where we discuss this law, because this law, as we have repeatedly mentioned, is the citizens' interest. And you should be consensual, that those who did not behave in harmony, which is why you fell from power, pay for what they did [[Employee Branislav Ivkovic seeks replica]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9541	You didn't mention it, Mr. Ivkovic. Wait a minute to check, I didn't hear. The emissaries are banging on the benches. ) There is a word Mr. Ivkovic [[right on line]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9542	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the nerves are absolutely gone and shouldn't be there, but I think that slow nervousness and this banging on the benches shows you're being touched. Serbian citizens know very well who invited them to civil disobedience, who urged them not to pay electricity, not to pay taxes and contributions, not to pay communals? You have greatly influenced the defence power of this country and its successful economic functioning and life of the family. And now, as you imitate good Indians, that's your problem now, but here they're not Indians for a pay phone. For this speaker, people who know very well how to do serious things, run businesses, run the country. And now I'm going to tell you, and I'm going to repeat -- no one here from the Socialists is going to argue that someone doesn't pay, who needs to pay, but the problem is that you have made such a law to chase only one-fifth of those who have to pay, and you don't chase four-fifths, because among those four-fifths are all those who have stood by you or are part of you. You're asking to pay, eventually, extra-profit tax someone who's honest and honest in his collective worked, legally got the right to lease on indefinite time, bought the apartment by law, but you don't chase a smuggler with tobacco, or anything else, who's earned warehouses, cottages, houses, tennis courts, swimming pools, you don't chase them, you left an article 9 for them, because they're politically similar personnel. Explain to the citizens of Serbia that you are taking this law to selective targets, you are targeting your political inexperiences, which you see as political enemies. What is your, unfortunately, mood towards them, we saw yesterday and we were amazed, and we were amazed. Especially when it comes to female MPs. This country will not get far, if with such wickedness, the desire for revenge and hatred is considered. In this House we should think honestly, honestly, honestly, to think well, to increase production and be a standard higher. So, don't impute, we are for law-making, but a comprehensive law, and you've made a selective approach and you've cornered all your financials and a part of you sitting there.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9543	Since we are no longer registered for discussion, I would like to put the amendments to Article 8 submitted by MP Miomir Ilic. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 46, against 121, there were no abstentions, of a total of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Pal Shandor. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Also, the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic. The government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee, did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word has the People's Member Bozidar Vujic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9544	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this submitted amendment to Article 8 shows in a very transparent way all inexperience, all intricacies and all indifference to the government. Just an explanation if I read, and since my amendment refers to the point of Article 8 and is related, it is causally bound, causally - consequently, to Article 3 also, point 6, because it processes the same matter. I'll be so free to read each other's arguments, you'll see in a transparent way how much this is an expert government, which obviously doesn't know how to do its job. By refusing to dot 6 in Article 3 of the amendment, the government has explained in the following way - the amendment is not accepted because the substance of the amendment is already contained in the law. So what I suggested was already contained in the law, so they don't accept it because they think it's already in the law. In view of Article 8, paragraph 6, which refers to point 6 of Article 3, they, in their reasoning, reject this amendment in the following words - the amendment is not accepted because the proposed amendment does not improve the text of the law. Obviously, no other comment on the expertise of this government is necessary, there is only one, which is that I am simply surprised that people are sitting in government, when they are unable or do not want to do so by their own political will, because of their political hatred for those who submit amendments, which concerns us MPs of the SRS, that at least the proposed amendments should read, find a basis for rejection in all the legal regulations, including in which they are offered, and that at least in some way there are related arguments. This clearly proves that they haven't read any of the proposed amendments, when they give these reasons. After all, the amendment also refers to improving what has been misrepresented, and this is the whole legislative project that has been set up unconstitutionally. It's all the improvements, this expert government has never been worse, and it's grown out of DOS, and it's no wonder it's the worst, because DOS is the worst (from the hall: warning). .....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9545	Mr. Vujic, I give you a warning because you have spoken offensively and on the basis of Article 101, and on account of the violation of Article 99. Please take care of it. It's okay to say that the government isn't professional, that it's not expert, but you have to take care of how you express yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9546	DOS is really the worst. You're showing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9547	I give you another warning, Mr. Vujic. Here you go, Mr. Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9548	You have violated the Rules of Procedure because MP Bozidar Vujic has not spoken offensively of any MP and of any parliamentary group. He said - DOS is the worst. But he didn't say he was bad, he's the worst compared to the others. It's a graduation. It's not an insult. You shouldn't have given him a warning here. Look out, you have four parliamentary groups here. One's the best, you know which one's the best, the SRS. They have two mediocre, the SPS and the SS, and one of the worst, and that's a matter of assessment, not an insult, and that's why you can't give him a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9549	Mr. Seselj, I believe that I have acted in accordance with Article 96(3), where the chairman decides whether someone has committed an insult or not, and you are not the one who needs to make an assessment of it. I've warned before, and I don't think it's nice, I understand when someone makes arguments and arguments and when he criticises the government and he can say that he thinks the government isn't professional. That's what I've been listening to all day. I cannot allow anyone, without any reason or reason, to insult most of the MPs here, as many as 176 of us are, and that's not your first time. I'm sorry. [[Applause]] I'm sorry we ruined a nice atmosphere. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9550	You're wrong if you think it was a nice atmosphere today. We broke the bill today into the tiniest bits, and you think it's nice. You gave a warning to the People's Messenger for the assessment he gave. However, Article 101. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not give you at all the first to give notice to the MP for the assessment he has given. The notice shall be made to the National Ambassador who approached the speaker without the permission of the National Assembly President, who speaks before he has asked and received his word, who, despite the warning of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda; if he interrupts the speaker in the exhibition or throws away, or he presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons; if he uses swearing and offensive expressions...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9551	That's it. That's an offensive expression. If I tell you, Mr. Nikolic, you're the worst...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9552	We here, ma'am, have been listening all day to the fact that in the previous government there were thieves, criminals, ruined life, killed Serbia, left little, the minister said that 10 minutes ago. Those aren't offensive expressions to you. An offensive expression is when an MP estimates that a group that is here is introducing Serbia into chaos and hopelessness is the worst. That now gives you a cause... (Chairman: Mr. Nikolic... )......................................................................................................... that you're causing incidents. You have nothing to talk to me about, when I sit down, then answer me. Now I'm still talking and I'm telling you a warning, because you're interrupting me while I'm talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9553	That's when you sit here, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9554	Since you and I are even, I don't think women have taken over the state yet, it's not a matriarch officially declared, admit me as an equal. So don't give us any warning about what you have no right to do. If you adopt the principle of making warnings, please express them in all order. And the MPs of the ruling majority and MPs of the opposition, so that we may feel that we are equal in this congregation with you. I can't let a drunk Marian Risticevic vote on whether he's an MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9555	Mr. Nikolic, I give you a warning about the insult you have done to the MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9556	He's been singing and banging on the bench all day and now you're telling me a warning, and I've been working on this law all day. I've studied every point of his life, and I've studied it. Marijan Risticevic comes here to stifle, sing, drink and insult the MPs of the SRS. It's normal for you to do Marian Risticevic all the time, he throws, and you keep your mouth shut. When an MP comes out for a pay phone and says something's wrong, you use it to give a warning. What are we talking about here, especially when you're in that place you're in right now?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9557	Mr. Nikolic! Wait till I answer, Mr. Risticevic. Mr. Nikolic, I don't think I've done any damage to the Rules of Procedure. I already said, maybe I don't know if you were here yesterday, I think I was objectively and impartially running a business here as chairman. For that, I have proof of the stenographic notes, where there is evidence that I have given notices to all four MPs. You can see for yourself. You might as well ask the MPs. I don't think you're right. It's an insult to me, I didn't cause it, I acted on the Rules of Procedure, and the incident was made by you. Right on the line, MP Marijan Rističević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've gotten used to all kinds of insults from a longtime law student who's been a law student for 15 years, so he gave himself the right to judge who's drunk and who's not. For the sake of the public, I haven't had a drink since 1993, and I am ready to call the police to use an alcometer here and to find out on the spot that Marijan Risticevic is not drunk. But I don't know if Tomislav Nikolic is ready to be used here, because if he stepped on it, the oscillator would go to heaven.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9559	Mr. Risticevic, I give you a warning about the offensive expressions. Is anyone else answering for a word on the amendment submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9560	Don't ask me if I did or didn't speak. You're obliged to keep a precise record of it. I just checked in with the Rules of Procedure. In point 6, which is covered by the amendment of Bozidar Vujic, it is a completely clean case, a case of non-taxation. No sales tax paid, no market delivered, used for other purposes, some new purchases, purchases, etc. It's a clean case of tax evasion. You've passed laws a month ago where you've increased the period of limitations of tax obligations from year to year, this law is now the same for 12 years. How? This can't be charged 12 years ago, if it's been more than three years since that case when someone was selling goods, so he didn't hand over the market, which he was legally bound to, and he didn't charge the sales tax, but he spent that money. So he did a classic tax evasion. You can't make him do damage to the state now if he hasn't intervened in time. This obsolescence institute was not accidentally introduced into modern legal order. There must be a limit to the application of state repression, a time limit. There has to be a time limit to criminal sanctions. Minister Djelic, when you kill a man and if the police don't find you for 20 years and you're not convicted, after 20 years, you can walk the streets and boast that you killed that man and that man, and the court and the police can't do anything to you, because the murder case is out of date. Except for war crimes. He's been murdered for 20 years, but he's been in tax evasion for three years. It is a general legal principle that must apply unconditionally to all cases. You're here for the classic tax evasion case, and that's the sales tax, by not selling the market as prescribed by the law, you're now retroactively extending it to 12 years. That's absolutely impossible. This law will surely fall upon you when the Constitutional Court is established. And when will the Constitutional Court be established? Don't forget one thing - this law is against the aspect of the federal constitution. This law can be brought down at the Federal Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9561	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Bozidar Vujic. For 50, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, out of a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vera Markovic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. I find that MP Vera Markovic has withdrawn this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. The Government, the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9562	Dear Members of the People, Article 8 of the Law speaks entirely of the basis for one-time taxation. When my predecessors also proposed to partially redefine certain points that determine the basis, and Article 10 speaks of the rates to be applied to this law, they warned primarily for reasons of integrity. To take into account also something that happened in the meantime, where costs were being incurred, that the costs incurred by the taxpayers and by no regulation in the Serbian legislation and related to the tax system are not included in that part of taxation. I don't know how tax returns are going to be figured out, because we didn't have a chance to see it, but it would probably have to contain the parts, the elements of something that says that the person who thinks himself a taxpayer in this case, because it's about that direction the law's intensities, can also show that he's had certain costs that he won't get into the base. But here, in certain points, it is absolutely precise, in the entire statement, the tax base at which a certain rate will be applied. I have to remind myself that the feet here range from 30% to 90%. So, one very serious tax procedure. These are the largest tax rates to be applied in our legislation. There's one part of the legislation that regulates capital gains and there's a tax rate of 20%. It is applied to the difference between the purchase value and the market value. When it comes to talking, and a lot of people here talk about apartments, some people laugh, etc., we don't mind paying the difference when it comes to apartments, but to take care of some facts in that case. My amendment is just trying to say that. In points 12, 13 and 14 of this proposal, I asked that instead of saying "the market value of the area of the apartment above the corresponding area referred to in Article 3 paragraph 1 of paragraph 13 of this law" - it was found that there are 50 square meters, that the price of the square meter is 2 - 3 thousand marks, we apply a rate that is not small and we automatically get to what is the expression of the tax solution. However, that part that we want to tax as a difference in living space contained certain costs that come into purchase value. This means, if he was giving part of the living space, and in the meantime he got the living space and the difference of living space, he was not reconstructing from his own resources only the part that represented the right, but in the entire space that he had invested certain funds. He paid the ransom under positive legislation, according to positive Serbian legislation, and in some cases it doesn't necessarily mean that they are small money. We have to confess to those faces right to expenses. I understand you don't want to talk about the opposition MPs' proposals, but I will now return to what you adopted as a proposal. From the gentleman before me, you've adopted an amendment that says the difference between the amount paid and the real market value. The amount paid, I'm just asking for what? Real market values for what? I mean, really, that's even further away from precision in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9563	Mr. Tomic, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9564	Two more seconds to explain it to the end. When we're talking here, we're taking a market value, the tax authority is going to come out on the spot, it's going to determine the market value of a square meter, usually we're talking about some 200 squares squares, and you're saying it's 2,000 marks times 200, that's 400,000 marks, let's apply the rate, and that's that. It can't be like that. Then you absolutely tear down the full positive tax legislation that you've advocated here. When you adopted this amendment and when the Government and the Committee accepted that such a radical attitude, which is absolutely unknown in tax practice, and you adopt, then you entered even more difficult form. Then I can't understand it, and I'm really trying really hard to contribute to this law being quality. I've been dealing with tax regulations for years, and I really don't understand right now until the end that anyone who wants to issue a tax solution to establish a tax base, that on that tax base they're going to apply the rate, I don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9565	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Mr. Seselj as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9566	This amendment is meaningful because the provision of Article 8 paragraph 1 of point 11, point 12, 13 and 14. is pointless. Why? The first point of point 11 refers to the nominal value of privatisation of acquired shares, shares, i.e. in the case of estrangement of the market value of such actions and shares, and refers to Article 3, point 11 where it refers to abuse in the privatisation of enterprises by directors and members of the managing authority. Minister Djelic, wherever he would find there to be abuse in the privatisation process, as well as the minister of his own transformation, would have to take all measures to undo such illegal privatisation, privatisation burdened with abuses. When such illegal, misused privatization is annulled, this point 11 is pointless. You actually, without undoing these abuses of burdened privatisation, amnesty of abuse, so you open up the possibility that whoever committed abuse and by law has to fit, you guess, and when you're guessing, you always do it outright. Furthermore, when it comes to points 12 and 13, you did not predict a variant at all when one of the states received two, three, four or more apartments. There's no such thing as options here. First, that variant must be a felony, because no one by law could get more than one apartment. Someone can get another apartment, but the last one has to get back to the state. Even if he was bought, he has to make it available to the state. Someone who's got a second apartment hasn't returned first, he's got a criminal code to answer, and he's got a whole apartment to take away from him, not anything to pay for it. There's no more payment. Third, where people under the law were getting apartments from the state by regulations, where there were no violations of any regulations, the tax is absolutely against the law. As for point 14, there's a certain area, I think it's 60 or 70 kilometers from the city, where it doesn't count if someone has an apartment in the interior -- don't throw it dry, they need to know first, and then eventually do what's inappropriate to say here at the pay phone. Point 14. speaks of the market value of the excess built-up area of a representative residential, i.e. a business facility above the prescribed area, i.e. the permitted area. You're getting into the rights of local self-government here. Whoever built more than is prescribed or allowed, needs it either to collapse or to legalize. In legalization, the existing laws have already been made clear. Construction permit, urban permit, additional duties, construction land, etc. are paid. This means that it must be paid in accordance with what has been exceeded in relation to the regulation. There's also some criminal provision, if someone's gone too far to forgive him for the collapse, so something else can be added to him, but it can't go this way. It has to be in the same way that it's perfectly accurate, purposely paying for the construction of city land, for example. These are dedicated items, and they can't go into the Republic budget like this, and then the Government has all of that on its own, because all the money that is deposited on behalf of the use of city building land is used for the construction of the city, for the construction of infrastructure facilities, etc., so that all four points 11, 12, 13 and 14 of the members of the 8th are meaningless. Unfortunately, this amendment doesn't fix much either, but in any case, the amendment was a good reason to express a negative view of what is wrong with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9567	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Mr. Ivkovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9568	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, would you like to explain to these ladies who are trying to be ladies? Do you notice the lady sitting at the place of Rake Radovic talking all the time?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9569	I didn't notice, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9570	You see, you notice radicals, and you don't notice a lady who replaces Raka Radovic in general. And these amendments show how unthinkable it was when the law was written and the law is not comprehensive and complete. Those who deny after this speaker that all the profits in the last 10 years that have been close to the regime, etc., will build a law that captures the institutional part of the extra profit, but therefore say the market value of the excess built-up area of a representative residential, i.e. a business facility. If someone had the opportunity to build 1,500 square meters, the legislator didn't ask him where you got the money to build 1,500 square meters in marbles, with plastered lions or marble lions, but if he made 1,700, he would punish him for those extra 200 squares. So, to recap this story, this law is made for selective targets. It was designed so that someone takes the right to judge whether the laws some others used to work by were correct or not, as if there had been no congregation that had passed those laws before. These laws were final when the congregation passed them and they were valid until the moment they were changed. No, the legislator gave himself the right to assess, and for that time, the applicable laws, that they are not correct and that for people who have worked through the institutions of the system, they have made extra profits and that they should pay taxes. At the same time, the legislator forgets about all the criminal activities, all the smugglers, all those who, as is said here, have opened 30 companies, one after another, created huge capital on the torture of this people, at the embargo, made an object of 1,000 or 2,000 squares, tennis courts, swimming pools, and forgot them. He totally forgot them. They're nowhere to be found. They're absolutely nowhere, unless they had permission to build 1,500 squares, and they built 1,700 squares. Furthermore, this law is not fair to those it taxes because it speaks only to market values. So someone by someone had the right to get 100 squares, he got 130, for 30 squares per legislator he had to pay the tax, at market value, and he invested in that market value. Did he invest, whether he paid the ransom for those 30 squares, whether he was doing the reconstruction, whether he was working on the façade of the facility, whether he was changing the roof, whether he was doing something else, that doesn't interest the composer. Therefore, the basis cannot be a market value, the basis cannot be the value of exports, the basis must be reduced by the actual costs achieved. Where are you going to get a better variant than an exporter? The exporter is because he exports, he had the right to buy six dinar stamps and could not be the basis, because that same exporter, when he achieved exportation, then had a certain percentage of the foreign exchanges from exports to sell NBJ, at the same rate of six dinars. But that's not what the legislator writes, it simply has a red scarf, selectively chosen political targets and a political resemblance in front of it. This is pure Bolshevik text.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9571	I give my word to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9572	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this may be the fifth or sixth time we've heard that someone complains about why this law does not cover the mafia and the gray economy. I just want to say two things. First, the bill affects what was organized by our people by those who were close to the former regime, who received some benefits and who could get something that was not available to our citizens. That's very clear to our citizens. As far as the grey economy, as far as the mafia is concerned, it's very surprising that today those who held power for 13 years, who tolerated that gray economy, who tolerated these plastered works, those fairies, who didn't do anything to stop that gray economy, who made it possible on the basis of the state, so more than 80% of the oil was being smuggled, those who left us the cigarette market, where more than 60% of it was smuggled, those who didn't do anything in the ordinary procedure, in the tax administration, had provisions, asked the question of where that property came from, they surprise them today why this isn't a proposal of this law? For them, we say, this law has the object of what was the institutional robbery of our people, and as far as the pure mafia is concerned, as to what is ordinary tax evasion, the suspicious origin of property, for it for several weeks, a few months maximum, will come before you a bill on the tax administration, where it will be envisaged and where our tax administration will finally, like anywhere in the world, have the opportunity to compare property and ask where the income that is so great comes from. It's the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9573	The violation of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9574	I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the head of the SPS parliamentary group, Mr Branislav Ivkovic. So he said that the proposal for this law, behind which, of course, it is not disputed, stands the DOS parliamentary group, the Bolshevik law. I find that offensive, I suppose most of my colleagues do. Of course, it must be tragic that the head of the SPS parliamentary group is accusing us of proposing Bolshevik laws. It's a special story. In all this, when I've already answered the word, there's another obligation. So, to honor the dignity of this congregation. No one can go out for this pay phone and accuse the government or the DOS parliamentary group of supporting some legal proposal that allegedly hides 4/5 profiteers, who have won, I don't know how against the legal, property benefits. That someone had 10 or 13 years to tax you, so he ruined it. Even if he missed that deadline, now I suggest that he analyze this law if it's not sharp enough, so let's tax that 4/5. But it doesn't. What he's doing is he's trying to suggest to people who got something that's obviously illegal and what costs, and that makes as much sense as stealing someone's car, so I invest something in it, and then I'm asking in confiscation to admit the costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9575	According to the Rules of Procedure, Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9576	You've broken the Rules of Procedure twice, Mrs. Micic. Here, you have now broken the Rules of Procedure, because you have given your word to Mr Sabic, and he is no longer a People's MP at all, because the party he belonged to has excluded him from his ranks and has submitted an official notice to the Assembly about it. Secondly, you violated the Rules of Procedure because you did not intervene when Minister Djelic spoke, he used many offensive terms.... He even mentioned cigarette smugglers, and he knows that the main cigarette smugglers in Serbia are Zoran Djindjic and Stanko Subotic - Cane... (President: Mr. Seselj...) )......................................................................................................... And that's the mob that runs the cigarette market...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9577	Please tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9578	Your problem is that, unfortunately, in Serbia, cigarette smugglers have come to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-19-0.u9579	Mr. Seselj, let me answer you, please, for a little quiet. Mr. Seselj, you're a lawyer, how can you ask me to give the Minister's measurements when only the MPs can express themselves? First read the Rules of Procedure, then go out and advertise it. There's no explanation. We're done working hours. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 151 MPs. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have announced the absence of the following MPs: Vojislav Doshen, Dusan Budišin, Teodora Vlahović, Jon Cismash, Karolj Kermeci, Vladan Jovičić, Petar Misic, Stevan Lilić, Ljubvoje Slavković, Bojan Kostreš, Momcilo Trajković and Atila Juhas. Only in the morning is Jakov Stamenković, Srdjan Sikimic, Ružica Veljović and Natasa Milojevic, and Srdja Popovic. (Jakov Stamenkovic, from the place: I am here. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the meetings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. I would also like to inform you that the sittings were invited to attend Nenad Canak, the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and Dr Predrag Filipov, vice-president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, as the authorised representatives of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, who submitted amendments to the draft laws on the agenda of this session. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda:- PROPOSAL OF THE SINGLE ISSUE ON EXTRA REVENTION AND EXTRA IMPROVED USE OF SPECIAL POSITION(s) I remind you that, at yesterday's session, they are in discussion on the amendment of MP Dragan Tomic to Article 8. The bill was included: the applicant for the amendment, Vojislav Seselj as president of the SRS parliamentary group, Branislav Ivkovic as president of the SPS parliamentary group and Bozidar Djelic, the finance and economy minister. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr. Ivkovic.
