ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15904	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have proposed an amendment to which I asked Article 1 of the full proposal of the Transport Tax Act to be deleted. In your explanation, it is not about increasing the rate of sales of goods and services, but about integration of the specific federal sales tax rate for the financing of the army by 3% and now the applicable republican rates on the marketing of products, i.e. the service of 17%. You're quite right about that. "By uniting the rate of special federal sales tax and the republican sales tax at a single rate, with a single payment account and with a unique application of tax relief and exemption, the process of determining and charging, significantly simplifys the system of payment of sales taxes, increases the efficiency of payment and reduces administration." Mr. Minister, I can tell you that you're wrong about that part. The tax is currently paid on a number of grounds. For example. sales tax, retail tax, financial transaction tax, personal income tax, property tax, corporate tax. Sweet taxes are kept on special accounts and on special charters in the departments of the Republic Public Revenue Administration. If you didn't know, the Department of Public Revenue has computers. If he is interested in the inspection or in the taxpayer himself as much as he owes and on any basis, it is sufficient to report to the Republic Public Revenue Authority, to request his state of affairs with his code and all of his obligations, on any basis and by any tax, he will be made available to him in a few minutes. That claim itself that you want to combine rates because of the poor way of keeping records and payments is not true, because the tax is paid mostly by a Virmanian order, i.e. by form 40 or 41. I don't know if you've ever seen, say, a package of virtual warrants when a salary is paid. There's a crowd. When taxes are paid, there are usually five or six of them, and that's where it all ends. As if it were marketing when it comes to this law and as if the real goal of the law is to finally put the Ministry of Defence in a position of subjugation with respect to the Republic government, or Zoran Djindjic. Another government body remains that Mr Djindjic cannot control, it is the military. Therefore, if the Ministry of Defence depends on you to get money to buy food for the military or equipment, it leads you and the Prime Minister to manage the personnel structure of the military, or the policy of the federal state. This is the real goal of this law, and not, as you say, uniting the rate of taxes on the marketing of products, or services, to be kept in one single account. You can now say that you have regular military obligations. Maybe, but it depends on your goodwill. It's not regulated by any single law, nor do you have an obligation to do so. When it comes to the release of meat taxes, the last few months have been undersold, and as far as fruits and vegetables are always sold 99% on the market, you have only had one percent of that turnover. When it comes to drugs that were on the positive list, taxes were paid for those medicines. So, only the funds that actually belonged to the state were spinning from one taxpayer to another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15905	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15906	As regards the special sales tax, as I have noted, it was introduced after our country's bombing by the NATO Pact and as far as the constitutional basis is concerned, it is very problematic at the federal level. There's no problem, it's consistent with the federal level. It's just that the rate is uniting. As for military funding, since January of this year and the federal state has moved to the principle of gross budgets, so the money generated by those 3% has not entered the budget. So, in no case does the situation change as far as the military is concerned. As for excise duties, which are consistent between the federal and the republican levels, we found the right measure to do so. I just wanted to point out that, of course, this year we have more bills. That's a good thing. We can track how much is paid, by which kind of sales tax. It's the same thing I showed yesterday, the excise case. What's better for businesses is that this federal tax will be taken where a 12% tax was paid and where taxes were paid 17%. have different events, will be paid somewhere where no 12% sales tax was paid, was not paid on some where the tax was paid 17%. It will simplify their business, and the businessmen know it well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15907	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is from Mr Vojislav Seselj, representative of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15908	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is very serious, but it is a non-serious minister's explanation. The minister appears as a guardian of constitutionality and legality, rather than as a constitutional court. The minister knows with confidence, someone might have told him something wasn't constitutional. However, the federal tax law still exists and is applied. You've already introduced tax laws here that were not in accordance with federal law, so after a few months in the Federal Assembly, you've changed federal law to adapt to the republic; instead of doing the opposite, to change federal law first, and then to make the republican adjustments to the federal law. Because according to the Federal Constitution, the basic tax system determines the Federal Assembly. In this case, you theoretically have a situation where the tax is 23%, if it remains federal law. You may assume that he will be abolished, you may know in advance that he will be abolished, but it is not a serious legal reasoning. Until that changes, until you have the authority to charge here under the tax base prescribed by the Republic law, you have no right to do this. But you're used to doing these things. That's why you suspended the Constitutional Court. That's why you're obstructing the work of the federal constitutional court. That's the point. In principle, I am in favour of the unifying tax collection and of calculating a single tax rate on all tax bases, not a self-tax on traffic. But it has to be done in accordance with the constitution and federal law, not that the minister here is guessing whether something is by the Constitution or not. Those ministerial speculations mean nothing. This is where things should be set up according to constitutional standards. The constitutional norm says the first federal tax law should be regulated properly, and the republican tax laws must be fully compatible with federal law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15909	Thank you. The word has a representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15910	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, this amendment makes sense because it has not cleared up any previous issues. These issues are a series concerning the survival of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia: how the Yugoslav Army will finance itself in the coming period, what kind of an international environment we are at this point, how economically stable we are and how much we are able to abolish this type of tax at all. There is one more thing, this 3% rate has been introduced for the reason that the damages caused during the aggression are partially resolved, but also to find a way to help the Yugoslav Army under extraordinary circumstances; to wash away the course of events, and beyond that, damages caused by military facilities and correcting all the illogicalities that occurred during that period. No matter how subtle an explanation may have been expected from the government at this point, because what happens to war damage, whether someone in this country is going to ask for war damage and what it means to be the vice president of the federal government, Mr. Labus, who says -- they don't think they're guilty, and we don't think they're guilty either. Then it remains only to be this people's fault.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15911	Thank you. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 43, there are none against 119 abstentions, nine did not vote, a total of 171 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Culibrk and a group of 21 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. On behalf of the group of applicants, the amendment will be explained by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. There's a word from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15912	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS have proposed that Article 2 of the Law be amended, in the sense that in Article 16 per cent 17 is replaced by a percentage of 10. It's a service tax, and we think it should be as much as 10%, as it used to be. It is necessary to reduce the proposed rate to 10% because of the very difficult economic and social situation in which our country and taxpayers are located. Serbian radicals believe that everything that is a luxury should be taxed, what is not available to most citizens, what a group of citizens or elites can own, but that in this case it should be reduced and that a 10% rate is quite enough. You'll see later, when we discuss the budget, that's what we predicted. We have reduced the amount of budget funds, so that everything that is not necessary is thrown out, and that the state is financing all those needs that all Serbian citizens need.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15913	Anybody else answer for a word? There is a word from MP Vojislav Seselj, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15914	I am surprised why the government does not accept this amendment, although it has had the experience of almost one year of application of tax laws, which were adopted in the spring. The increase in tax rates from 10% to 17% in service operations almost destroyed service activities, especially the small private service sector. Since they can't handle that kind of tax, many have already checked out, shut down companies. The result is a reduction in the number of taxpayers. Today there are far less taxpayers on this basis, numerically, so quantitatively, when it comes to entities than there were a year ago. This year you had success in tax collection and budgeting the most because you charged all the powers of the tax, even when there was no basis for payment and when you had almost nothing to charge. But next year, you won't have taxpayers, so that tax code provision just won't mean anything to you. If you were to reduce and return the tax rate to 10%, which was until the spring of this year, you would have made it possible, you would have helped the service sector, if it had recovered a little bit. The one-smart Vlad is the goal of reducing the tax rate, and as many taxpayers as possible, not vice versa. Secondly, you are handling the principle that exists in the European Union here. The unique tax rate is 20% applied to almost everything, but it should have conditions to apply such a high tax rate and should have prior conditions to all things in the field of sales tax - therefore both trade and services, etc. - they literally tax at the same rate. You have already seen this initiative, which came from the Government, to suspend tax collection for some goods on basic foods, for two years (years or two),. You've come to the point that the price of meat is more expensive than it is in Germany. In a similar way, you'll have to do it next year. Of course, the government will fall to you before that, so someone else will do it, reduce tax rates and cut certain taxes at least for a certain number of years, so we don't literally lose all taxpayers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15915	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 48, against 119 abstentions, there was no vote of 8, a total of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group. The Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendment to Article 3 will be explained by the MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15916	This amendment to Article 3, which I submitted in front of the SRS parliamentary group, speaks in favour of what I said yesterday, which is that these amendments to the traffic tax laws and excise duties are only the marketing move of Minister Djelic, who is apparently sleeping, as he is slowly yawning. This Article 3. That is, the way the minister wants some products to release the rates of sales tax, nothing will help the citizens of Serbia, and we must tell them from this place in advance, although they know it, although they know that they are much harder to live under DOS and under such experiments, conducted by Minister Djelic. In fact, it should be made clear that these are laws that comply with the dictatorships that come from outside, above all by the European Union. And the praise coming from the European Bank for Development, as Minister Djelic said yesterday, is not really something that will bring benefit to the citizens, but the government of the Republic of Serbia, with Minister Djelic, will continue to rob the poor pocket of citizens anyway. Since you have already predicted that through this marketing move, apparently some products, which will not affect the improvement of the population standards, you free the tax on transport, it is simply amazing, Mr. Minister, if you are so caring for the citizens of Serbia, if, as you said yesterday, you closely follow the standard of the population, how can you make such a statement to the MPs and the general public, when you know that your alleged jump in earnings is not enough for half the consumer basket today in Serbia. Since you didn't remember, as Serbian radicals suggest, in addition to this, you stated, for a limited period of two years, if it could at all improve the difficult social and economic situation in which citizens are located, to free the taxes on sugar, edible oil and fat, and exclusively domestic production. So when you predicted it to be fresh, or frozen fruit and vegetables, fresh, or frozen meat and fish, and fresh eggs, why didn't you limit it to domestic production, and yesterday you said that we should be in the longer perspective of being one of the larger exporters and that Serbia is a market centre that will unite 55 million residents? Since you didn't remember, when your government and the municipal authorities raised utility prices in a year and a few days across 300 and 400%, you put electricity in that point, when you know that astronomical electricity bills are coming in, which has been increased four times. When the citizens got, and in the last ten days they got bills for October and November the month, they were literally in shock when they saw what tax they had to pay at such a high price spent electricity. Since you didn't remember to release children's diapers, children's confection and galanteria, children's food, textbooks and school supplies for primary and high school schools, as we suggested in February of the month, and you didn't learn any lessons, because you obviously don't understand the situation of our citizens and how difficult it is to live. I suppose how you started and how you protect your monopoly clans and those directly from the Government of the Republic of Serbia involved in such affairs, that in some due time, if Mr Markovic of the "Krmivoprodza" gets the egg-making equipment powdered so as to free the eggs from paying sales taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15917	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15918	I would like to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, given that Article 146 has been violated, where the National Assembly decides on the amendments submitted in accordance with the order of the members of the bill. The MP from the SPS parliamentary group Marko Culibrk submitted an amendment to Article 2 and was not given the opportunity to explain his amendment at all. I think there's a direct violation of the Rules of Procedure here. Regardless of the third version, he answered the word, because while you gentlemen are reading the newspaper he needs to report to everyone individually so he can get the word. Therefore, in addition to avoiding the debate on amendments, we also avoided discussion on committees. We haven't discussed these amendments at the Finance Committee at all, even though he's the parent board. However, you've introduced a business opportunity to do without it. I think it's the usual thing to consider all this on committees, and they've just been formed to get MPs, or committees to say what they think. We work here without the opinion of the Committee on Amendments, without the Government's opinion on amendments, and now we will not give the MPs the right to explain their amendments. Gentlemen, lock up and we'll go home if you're in a hurry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15919	Mr. Tomic, I'm in no hurry at all, but you can check in the stenographic notes. I read that MP Marko Culibrk submitted the amendment and asked if anyone else wanted a word. No one answered. You can check it out. I thought you gave up the discussion. You didn't follow well. I'm sorry, it's your fault. Secondly, according to Article 160(2) of the Committee, "if the committees in charge do not submit reports within the specified time limit, the draft law may be reviewed in the National Assembly and without the committee's report", and in addition, the National Assembly has decided to carry out the search without the committee's report. The word has a representative of the SRS parliamentary group Vojislav Seselj, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15920	This, ladies and gentlemen, is the key amendment of the Serbian Radical Party. Unfortunately, there is no minister here, and I wanted to offer him, if he accepts this amendment, (Minister, Minister, listen to a little minister, let the Martian go, he's been replaced, listen here) if the government accepts this amendment we can also vote for the law in general. Why? This amendment corrects the law and brings it into line with the general social interests. Where are your interests? The company has no interest in taxing the goods imported for a certain period of time. Why? Imported goods are already competing with our producers, as large world exporters have long reduced their cost of production compared to ours. Where does that best show up? For example, for the price of sugar. The world's sugar price has always been at least twice our domestic price, sometimes multiple. The world mainly produces sugar from sugar cane, and in our case, this production is more expensive because of outdated technology. You didn't even remember to enter sugar, oil and fat into this law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act, but you protect the rights of the food importer by setting them the same tax exemption as domestic producers. It doesn't make any sense. What is the nature of this law? This law falls within the order of provisional laws, intervention laws, laws that apply for a certain period of time. In their nature, these are extraordinary measures due to extraordinary circumstances. What are these extraordinary circumstances that forced you into this law? First, the significant purchasing power of the population dropped, and other such tax rates led to the beggar stick of domestic food producers. You had to give them a little bit of a break, but why are you giving in to food importers who are competitors to domestic producers for a certain time; that doesn't make any sense, except that you protect clans that deal exclusively with imports. Furthermore, you did not predict at all sugar, edible oils and fats, but you did not predict children's diapers, children's confection and galanteria, food, textbooks and school supplies. You didn't predict any personal hygiene or medical material. We don't make shavers from domestic producers. That's probably why you don't shave. Why didn't you bring electricity in here? The basic item burdening the budget of all families in Serbia is electricity. Why didn't you take care of that? It's the simplest thing to do. It would be useful if only taxes were taken off the electricity price and felt quite relieved on the domestic budget. It didn't occur to you. There cannot be any particular cover-up, and these importing clans cannot benefit greatly on this basis, because they form on a completely different basis, by deciding whether the current will be introduced by a more expensive or cheaper foreign seller. We had a case in the last winter season that bought more expensive Bulgarian electricity instead of cheaper Romanian because one of those who did the job on behalf of the Serbian government and Elektroprivreda had personal benefits. Furthermore, it is very problematic that you release taxes only on medicines listed in the list of prescriptions and issue a burden on health insurance funds. Why? You don't make it any easier for the citizens. You only make it easier for the Health Insurance Fund. (President: Time. It makes no sense not to release all the medicines of that tax for a certain period of time, as well as communal services. The minister should plead on this matter. He doesn't even wanna listen. He should, if he does not accept, explain why these items do not accept. First, why does he not accept the distinction of food domestic and foreign production and why he does not accept these other goods to come into the same status as the goods being released.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15921	The word has a representative of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15922	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is clear why it is unacceptable to offer in the market economy for domestic and foreign production. Because it violates international conventions that our country has signed and is obliged to respect, which is not signed by the DOS. Because of politics and common sense, of course, they'll agree to something like that. Finally, consumers will benefit from these products. I agree that manufacturers will be in a position where they will have to keep an eye on the quality of their product and compete with the price of that product. It's a game of competition and we can't agree to that kind of policy in the market segment. As for the release of the sales tax on those items that you propose here, Mr. Seselj, you were the vice-president of the Republic Government who charged these products with 18%, 9+3+3+3, railways, federal and 3% of Belgrade's tax. It did not stay in Belgrade's till, but went directly to the Republic budget with your decision. Of course the circumstances were different. All these products that are mentioned here are subject to sales tax only in a period of one month. These products were exempt from the sales tax because the State provided funds covering that type of costs which had been covered by the turnover of the tax on sales by that time. Therefore, it is clear that, of course, in stages, it can be done to release certain products of sales tax and that release will be done to the extent that our country is able to compensate other incomes so required. We have to pay back the old foreign exchange savings, we have to pay off the pensions of Serbia, we are a society in which 1.2 pensioners come to one employee. We have hundreds of thousands of refugees, we have problems with a million and a half unemployed people. Our national register is loaded and these funds must be found at the moment, we find them by taxing on sales on a particular product group. They were released in the first year of the products mentioned by the amendment of the Transport Tax Act. I hope that next year we will be able to meet your amendment and that, as we achieve the necessary funds through some other form of billing, we support something like this. I think it's only logical what we can do at this point, with the conclusion that your amendment is well-intentioned. Unfortunately, in these circumstances it is not realistic, because we cannot provide the necessary resources with any other economic policy. We can liberalize the segment of the market to the extent that we've done it. As far as sales tax is concerned, I want to believe that during the 2003 budget debate, we will discuss further liberalisation of this kind of fiscal policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15923	Thank you, Replica, MP Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15924	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Jovanovic should first be more detailed about how things were before, while the SRS was in the government. The electricity tax was only 9%. We had the cheapest electricity in the world, half a kilowatt. We've had enough power always. Then, while the SRS was in the government for a short time, we didn't have a tax on drugs at all. You were the first to introduce the drug tax. Then don't add up something you can't add up or something that didn't exist. Zero plus zero at the end is zero or, at the end of 18, according to Cedomir Jovanovic. Thank you from your parliamentary group, I am very much helped by Mr Jovanovic, and I thank you as head of such a constructive parliamentary group. So there are possibilities here. Secondly, electricity is now being imported, and as much as I've heard of 2.9 pfenig for kilowatt. Instead of importing from Ukraine by 1,4; yes, from Ukraine, electricity in Ukraine is the cheapest. Why, they would know that only those who are currently operating the electricity industry explain it. What are the personal and clan interests that motivate them to buy more expensive than cheaper electricity? Third, basically, Mr Jovanovic calls on international organisations and their regulations, obligations arising from membership, the European Union's insistence, when it comes to a single tax rate of 20%. So that's the basis for calling on them. However, this law itself is a deviation from what they impose on the outside, because it is currently unsustainable. This law is of temporary value and temporary application. Since the provisional law is an intervention law, temporarily applied, by time of application, it can be temporary for the release of domestic producers, because their position is very difficult. You can't kill a domestic producer now, or you can, because he's currently unable to handle the competition of foreign and cheaper goods. In this way you encourage importers in a situation where imports in our country have otherwise exceeded all possible tolerance limits, and when exports from month to month are increasingly falling. (President: Time. ) According to the real value of exported goods, our exports are constantly dropping.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15925	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? (No) I'm putting it to a vote. For 45, against 118, there are no abstentions, no vote of 10, a total of 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zivanko Radovanchev, Marko Culibrk and Joca Arsic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15926	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, as the chairman has already said, Zivanko Radovanchev, Culibrk Marko and I have submitted this amendment to Article 3. We suggest adding "and all kinds of cheeses" in Article 3(1). The same article adds point 4) "teachers, school supplies, textbooks, booklets"; point 5) "children's shoes, clothes and equipment for newborns"; and point 6) "child food". There has been a lot of talk here about the proposed release, as regards food, of the proposed tax exemption on the marketing of services only for fresh, i.e. frozen fruit and vegetables, fresh, or frozen meat and fish and fresh eggs. Yesterday, in the principle debate, much has been said about this proposed solution. Also, there have been a lot of words about the proposed tax exemption, as far as medicines are concerned, as well as communal services. To remind the MPs, this assembly and the public that, right now, no sales tax has ever been paid, that it has been seduced so-called. Moratorium on these obligations that citizens had according to sales tax. This does not mean much of a release, given that the transport of fresh fruit and vegetables, or frozen fruit and vegetables in most parts, took place in the markets. Thus, all of this was not even subject to sales tax of 17 plus 3, or 20% now. Practically, there's no way to get rid of this proposed solution or it's minimal. As far as cheeses are concerned, I was saying yesterday that only 10% of the turnover and production of cheese is done through social, state or private companies and that this is the subject of taxation, in this case of 20% of the sales tax, and that 90% of this production, which is not small, is located in the markets, past most of the control and control of inspection services, which is the minimum necessary to supplement the budget. Also, the proposal for this law does not cover curricula, school supplies, textbooks and booklets. This year in March of the month, we suggested that this also be a matter of release, because it's a direct attack on the budget. These are not assets that were not subject, but are all subject to taxation and all directly affect family budgets. The kid's got to buy school supplies, he's got to buy a textbook, he's got to get school equipment, he's got to have a book, he's got to have a book, he's got to have a book. If we want to take care and talk about some kind of help, it should be the subject of tax exemption. Also, I think it's quite logical that it's future shoes, clothes and equipment for newborns. If you do not want to accept all this, accept at least the equipment for newborns to be subject to a 20% tax on sales. In the end, I think it's quite right and quite correct to accept that children's food, if we're already liberating meat, is not subject to 20% taxation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15927	The word comes from MP Dragan Tomic, a representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15928	As did the previous SRS amendment and this amendment refer to what is a major item in the budget of each household and represents a really significant expenditure. These are: equipment and food for newborns, diapers, children's clothes and shoes and all that represents one significant cost, plus school supplies etc. When we add to this the growth of municipal services in the past year, when we add increased tuition at the beginning of this year and when we put it all together, these are very high items on the budget of each average household in Serbia. The proposal of the amendment and this parliamentary group was to help the budget of each family household a little bit, to help the citizens with this discharge, because the salaries in Serbia are very low. Yesterday I said that this so-called gross profit, when we turn down a warm meal, a regression that once existed and travel costs, comes to an amount of about 150 marks, means about 4,500 dinars. It's the average salary in Serbia. You can call it 6,000 dinars or 200 marks, that's not it. Without these supplements, that's this. So, with this gross profit, we've made a substitute for the pay claim. I think, like the previous amendment, this amendment speaks of family, of household, of what we all have written a few sentences in our political parties programmes. When we go to the election campaign, we try to get to every household, wishing that these Serbian citizens would vote for us, and it's obvious that when we get here in the Assembly, there's a lot to be forgotten. We have not forgotten these facts, and we want you to understand that the greatest foundation of this society is still family. These discharges should now concern every average family household. When you said from this pay phone yesterday that industrial production was zero, that it was on the low branches, that the question was what it would be like next year, I guess it made sense, when we adopted these amendments, to expand the list. I would agree even with much greater enlargement than what has been proposed by our MPs or what has been proposed in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15929	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15930	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since the DOS government has not yet managed to bring the tax system into line so that we do not change the tax rates anymore, and that the citizens of Serbia are no longer thinking about it, it would be good not to give in to the Styria vote against the amendments, but rather to the bill, but to think a little bit about how much your responsibility is because you have been voting for the budget for the Transport Tax Act and the Excise Act, even though you were warned that we will come to the situation that Serbian citizens will not be able to obtain basic products because you have introduced a tax on these basic products. Now part of the product and part of the service is tax-free, and then the question of fairness is, have you been able to treat all citizens equally with this new tax system, if you vote today. What's this about? The Government, in its explanation for Article 3, says it abolishes the tax on fresh, i.e. frozen fruit and vegetables, fresh or frozen meat and fish and fresh eggs in order to equalise the tax treatment of producers of food products of legal persons and entrepreneurs with the tax treatment of individual producers, because they sell their products mainly on markets. But here's the amendment that asks you -- what about entrepreneurs and what about legal people who make cheese? Why isn't the government consistent, why doesn't it apply the consistent principle of equalising taxpayers? Why cheese on two gigs to have different prices if it's the same quality, just because it's one with tax and the other isn't? Will that be the basis for crime? I'm sure he will, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. You should have separated the treatment of domestic producers from importers, i.e. the food products of domestic producers, to separate for this year or two, as far as you planned, by tax rates from importers. Do not convince us that Serbia can, just because the government has changed, enter the competition immediately and in the race with European food producers. Allow our producers to enter the competition and race with European food producers or any product that now flows across our borders. You make it possible for our producers to compete in such a market match. Don't give us a dinar course for a year, and that's how you're destroying our economy. Keep a real dinar course, see if the foreign producers are competitive then. Let's see if our producers can then export their goods. This is how you block ours like a cage, providing foreigners with the best locations for huge trading houses where they'll sell their goods. You provide a more favourable treatment to foreigners than to domestic producers, because food producers in Europe are subsidized by the state, and our country has little to do with agriculture, Vesenov and its consumers killing birds on hunting grounds. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you must think maturely, seriously. You're no longer a new government. You are now people whose decisions depend on the fate of many Serbian citizens. Look at the little discussion at the time of the adoption of the Transport Tax Act and the Excise Act, see what some of you were saying at the time, so tell me why we should now take off the tax, when you were all unanimity that it would not compromise the standard at all, that it was phenomenal, that it was our heart in Europe, that Europe would help us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15931	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to Article 3 to the vote. For 43, against 112 abstentions, he did not vote 21, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vojislav Jankovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. He has the words of the amendment by Vojislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15932	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest you pay attention to this amendment. In this amendment, I have proposed that in a group of products on which taxes are not paid, we should also include hot wood because there are at least three good reasons for that. The first reason lies in the fact that it is commercially unacceptable for one product to be taxed differently over a longer period of time depending on who the manufacturer is. Today, we have a situation that there are 50% of private forests in the Republic of Serbia and that these forests are not taxed by sales tax, and trees from state and social forests are taxed by 20%, which brings all social and state producers - heating wood to an absolutely unequal position. All that Mr. Minister said when he explained the bill on fruit, vegetables, eggs and meat, it also applies to the heating tree. Another reason is the need to bring our citizens into an equal position. In fact, the proposed release for municipal services, which means those citizens who heat through municipal services, means those who are connected to city heat for that heating do not pay 20% tax, and those citizens who heat up on the heating tree pay that tax. In this way we privileged the inhabitants of large cities, as remote heating is usually present in large cities, and in small towns and villages, the population has no opportunity to join city heat and thus, practically, we favour this population group. The third reason is the need to save electricity. Obviously, we're not producing enough electricity right now, there's a power saving appeal. There's no better way to save electricity than to stimulate alternative heating modes. It's just a heating tree product that we have in sufficient quantities in our country, there's a need to make this product cheap and allow the public to reorient themselves to heat with heated wood. Therefore, a circle of mandatory products that have a significant impact on the social situation of the public also includes heating, and that is why I suggest that you accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15933	Thank you. He has the word Finance Minister Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15934	I'd like to say, on behalf of the government, who authorized me to do it at yesterday's session at 1400 hours, that with the consultations we had with the promoter, with the profession, the situation is really very similar to what happens at the market. The government at this point is unable to bring order to this market. We have a situation where half the market is held by private people who don't tax themselves, so the government accepts this amendment and suggests you vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15935	Thank you. There is a word from the representative of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this morning we informally spoke to the amendment's proposal that the amendment was good and that it was acceptable from the position of the SRS. But don't be so slow, partial, just depending on who submitted the amendment, that you accept or reject the amendment. Just five minutes earlier I was talking about a very similar problem, about the production of cheese. In an unequal situation, dairy farmers are compared to individual agricultural producers. He must pay the tax on cheese and therefore his product is more expensive, and the individual agricultural producer, i.e. anyone who sells cheese, mahogany resellers, is freed from that tax. And if there's a basis, and there's a basis for the heating tree to be evened in the treatment, then we're putting people who are heating up on coal, on gas. That's very hard. Minister, he can't go out like he's being thrown out, he's taking something and it's not. There must be a system. Shall we get people who are heating up to free the energy tax? Then it's a tree, and coal and gas. Shall we even the producers? Then it's not just a tree. Then these are many products where private producers, individual producers of competition to entrepreneurs, i.e. legal persons. Don't make a mistake that's been done in recent years: that those you can control pay for everything. And to accept in advance that there's a huge group of those you can't control and then release them from paying so that you don't have to admit your weakness and mistake that you can't control them. Systemic laws are being discussed, although there are only four members of the law is systematic. It breaks state and government relations towards Serbian citizens. They are completely in an unequal position for Serbian citizens. What's he doing in Vojvodina, where's he gonna get the wood for the heat? So where's the gas? Well, there's a tax now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15937	There is a word from MP Dragan Tomic, a representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15938	I must say, I have no objection to the adoption of the amendment where the heating tree was mentioned, but besides electricity, there are also alternative sources that are not just wood. I think there's an absolute partial approach here, and we agree that wood is treated this way. However, another problem has been highlighted here. I think the "Serbishum" and all the others who deal with the production of wood are in a difficult position, because there is an extremely high, wild wood-cutting presence. It's not a product of any time, it's traditionally rooted in our space, it's been going on for many years, and I think it's happening the most now, because the price of electricity has driven a large number of citizens to move on to wood. The price of wood, as one of the basic heating products, is high. I ask if "Serbishum" will, when the sales taxes are released in this area, come out with its offer, which will be significantly lower than the gray market and what is happening in the markets, whether Serbian citizens will be able to buy wood from producers at lower prices than those who are drunk, such as "Serbishum" and others. Of course, when I talk about it, what about the ones that are heating up on the gas. More than 700,000 people in Serbia are heating up on gas. What about them? I suggest that the government here make a kind of partial approach. To make one real presentation, and since it deals with analysis in several areas, that it also looks at the whole situation in this area and analyses the situation, to see the potential of citizens in this area. If the Serbs are working in this situation right, then we'll probably have an advanced situation. So we're not against doing this either, but we're agreed to consider a complete situation and to do everything in each of these areas necessary for citizens to have the same treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15939	Thank you. Since no one's answering for a word, the government has accepted the amendment, but we don't have a report from the board. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vojislav Jankovic. For 130, against one, abstentioned 24, 28, a total of 183 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Dragoljub Vojnovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15940	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. I quote: "Nearer regulations on what is considered to be orthodox, prosthetic and medical means -- products that are surgically incorporated into the organism -- brought by the minister in charge of health affairs, according to the Minister in charge of finance and economic affairs. "I suggested that the last sentence should be changed, "proposed by the minister responsible for health care affairs, according to the doctoral and pharmaceutical chambers. "I can understand, Mr. Minister, that you are in charge of determining whether a lens will be implanted. (He doesn't listen, I see he doesn't listen. ) I used to go out and you all seemed to agree with me that health care is a matter of special social interest. But we haven't had a health minister in three months. It doesn't look like it. In such a way as to reject this amendment, it seems that health care can also be regulated by the finance minister. I suggest that this amendment be accepted, because who else would be more expert in giving an opinion on what it is orthotic and prosthetic means than a chamber that licenses the work of a doctor, not a finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15941	Thank you. The word has a Mr. Minister, Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15942	As far as this amendment is concerned, if we look at the opinion of the Medical Pharmaceuticals Chamber, of course every time we have to make a list of something that needs to be released, the first and main address is the profession that deals with it. If we look at why I would suggest that you do not accept this amendment, it is not because of the lack of the profession, it knows how to judge, however, the experiences show, I have received a number of correspondence from companies that supply orthopedic aids to disabled people where they point to numerous irregularities. In view of our society, our system, and perhaps lack of control, when all is left to one side or to another, there is a possible lobbying. So if we look at the list that has been made for the first time since 1995 and that has since spread, we come to the conclusion that, in fact, under the company orthopedic aids, there are some things that are quite commercial and even some luxurious products. So it's not a rejection, not a lack of trust in health care. Experience has shown. It's the same in the domain of culture, as for some regulations, where the main idea and the right idea to make that list. It's always good to have a cross-view of it, that even someone who's not from the profession can have the opportunity not to change the list, but to give an opinion and point to some possible strange things that are happening. It's simply another possibility for government to cross-check what's going on and believe that my proposal to reject this amendment has nothing to do with the lack of trust, but experience shows that four eyes see better than two.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15943	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15944	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all of this could have been different -- as said in that cartoon: "This wouldn't have happened if Pera had gone to the police before" -- if you had accepted the amendment to free the medicines from taxes. Then you wouldn't need control, supercontrol, super audits, and especially shouldn't have the ministries controlling each other. Here's the first time I've heard that in the political life of one state, one ministry needs to exercise control over another ministry, so there's mutual control in the government. Tell me, for the affairs of the Ministry of the Interior, which the other ministry is responsible for reviewing his affairs, then for many other ministries, which these ministries are determined to exercise control over him. What does that mean on January 1, 2002, when the law was applied? It's illogical, though, and we've had amendments to that. Secondly, "the law begins to apply on 2 January 2002", and we do not have a health minister. The government of the Republic of Serbia has no health minister. He's got a finance minister. Is there going to be a jump, so you won't even ask the Minister of Health anymore, because he's gone. And then suddenly a minister will appear in charge of finance and economy affairs, and he will say -- which are orthotic and prosthetic means that need to be freed from sales taxes. And why are you playing like that, why have you made a coalition that no one trusts anyone anymore? You don't know from which political parties the Minister of Health will be, and you know that there will be no change in the finance minister, so let's just in case we establish control over the Minister of Health, because those who have done it so far can get that ministry back, and let's control the Ministry of Health, or the Minister, who has always been a doctor. And now the economist will come to say-- sorry, Mr. Minister, in my opinion, and the law has authorized me to give you an opinion, that means it's not orthotic and it's not prosthetic. How do you know, Djelic, I know, I've fallen from the sky, and now I know everything, and being a doctor, being a machine engineer, wipe it out, you're from the DSS, you're from the Veljove, you're from this, from that one, and eventually we'll come to the conclusion that your work will only come to that -- which minister the minister will control. And we will sit here and wait for the ministers to agree, when they agree, to come to the assembly to give us a day to read the budget law and to plead on that law. And one more thing, a promise - to the MPs to rejoice. Someone promised us yesterday that we'd have budget revenues on the benches for this year, for 2001, so that's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15945	He has the word Mr. Djelic [[right on line]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15946	We have two examples from the list: you have cartridges that are placed in shoes and lenses that are not special for dioptria, but to change the color of the eyes. That's what I'm talking about. We're not talking, of course, about the fact that now some economist needs to know better than a doctor what was orthopedically helpful, but collegiately, as we do in many other parts, let's see what's going on here. Still, I don't think it's bad, that's how we try to work in the government today, without any political commitment. Who knows who's going to be finance minister next month in six months, a year. We're trying to establish a system that will help us work collegiately and that, eventually, as a government, not only at the moment when some laws come before you, but in everyday life, we'll be as resistant to lobbying as possible. That's the only reason. As for income, you're right. I've given the order, and it's still working, and I hope by the end of today, until after the debate, we'll be delivering the budget to you on the receiving side.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15947	There is a word from MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15948	The opinion of the SPS parliamentary group is also the lack of a health minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, that this should precisely belong to the section concerning health affairs and to the minister who is responsible for this, and in the opinion of the medical and pharmaceutical chambers. And this amendment really makes a lot of sense for a lot of reasons. It is said here that the medical and pharmaceutical chambers are a particular lobby. In a broader sense, it can be said, but I would say, first of all, a professional lobby and professional people who know what to do in this area. There's something else I have to say -- only the doctors in this country are on the payroll where they are, unlike the drivers in the pharmaceutical houses and the employees in the pharmaceutical houses, where the salaries of these lower employees, at least the porters, are reduced to the level of medical earnings. Therefore, nothing significant has changed in this area, even though we do not have a minister, who should take care of it. There's been a lot of noise in our time and the very term that there's a minister, and now that it's gone, it doesn't matter to anyone, and it doesn't matter how it works, and it doesn't work at all. So when you say there is no minister, then we don't need the ministries or the ministers in charge of these matters. You can do anything, but I don't think the finance minister knows better than the health minister, and yet this one, in agreement with the medical and pharmaceutical chambers, which are orthotic and prosthetic means, which are necessary and which should be released and where a release list should be made when it comes to this area. That's exactly their part and resources. This amendment makes a lot of sense and the SPS parliamentary group will support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15949	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 74, against 91, with two abstentions, did not vote 15, out of 182. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment. The Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendment will be explained by MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15950	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the provision of Article 4 is foreseen by the motion that this law enters into force one day after its publication in "The Official Messenger", and that its application will start from 1 January 2002, although it is a 120. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides that the laws should be applied as a rule on the eighth day since the day of publication. The reasons why the applicant is not standing, that there will be speculative actions by those who are engaged in trade and service, for the simple reason that the promoter here has indeed made so many mistakes that he has opened up the possibility that, in time from the date of entry into force, until the day of reception, or the application of this law, large and numerous trade opportunities will be opened, because the sellers will be able to sell for the tauperiod goods, and the daily market will only be handed over after the entry, or the application of this law. What are the options here in seven days, if this law is passed today, I think the damage is great and that there are speculative possibilities, to take place during this time period. What was to be done - it should be the same day that the law came into force, that its application should begin, because the secretary is prevented from really abusing and speculating those who use it in the store. So if the aim of the proposal was to achieve some means to improve the material position of citizens, then it was necessary to lower the prices of all products safely by 80%, as much as the budget of the Republic of Serbia has increased this year. Last year, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the budget was 129 billion, and this year the budget of the Republic of Serbia is 234 billion. So it's an increase of about 105 billion dinars. It is therefore necessary to observe so much that inspection services are trained and to be prepared from the date of entry into force of the law to carry out a list of goods in all shops, and their application is controlled, hence, from the date of entry into force of this law. I reiterate that there is no legal logic that this law, which aimed at reducing prices and allegedly making the situation easier for citizens, enables them to cry for skins on the other hand. With regard to the law of law enforcement and this legal illogicality is not sustainable and I therefore propose that this be brought into line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15951	The word has Tomislav Nikolic, a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15952	The draft law was not explained to us by Article 4. The bill or at least did not explain it so that we can understand why it deviates from the rules that apply to the law. It is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, that a law enters into force today and applies within 10 days. What is the law that has entered into force, and is not applicable, or if we adopt the law today, and it is obvious that you will vote for it if you have a quorum, it will come into force tomorrow. A huge machinery is being launched, and in all shops, lists of those goods that were on one tax rate have to be made, and now there will be tax-free goods. What will that list mean when the law applies from January 1st, or perhaps you claim that they do not have to list goods until January 1st, but why did the law not enter into force on January 1st? What is this law that goes into effect and doesn't produce any legal fact? What is the basis for this sort of thing, to separate the day of entry into force from the day of application? What will happen in these 10 days as far as possible, even though the law does not apply? If it doesn't produce any facts in the last 10 days, why doesn't it take effect the day you claim it can be applied? The Legislative Committee accepted the draft law in principle and did not deal with these problems, but therefore it went so far as to the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party that it said that the Legislative Committee did not accept amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 4. It would be much better if the Legislative Committee were to stand behind the bill and say that the bill is legally possible, but then the question is that Article 4 is legally possible and can be implemented within 10 days. Has it entered into force if it is not applied and the behaviour of the taxpayers, or whether they will sell the goods for the past 10 days with taxes, which requires them to apply the law on the day of application, or whether they will sell the goods without tax, which requires them to enter into force of the law by which the goods are exempt from the tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15953	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15954	I must say that the Socialist Party's parliamentary group will not support this bill because, despite the fact that it releases only a few products and when it is released from the sales tax, the prices of these products will remain extremely high and will not significantly feel better in the citizens' home budget. When it comes to the Liberation segment, a whole set of liberations concerning the family budget of citizens should really be seen and that will really help the citizens of Serbia at this point. Such cosmetic changes do not allow citizens to live better, although all news columns are now full of stories that Serbian citizens will be better off once they adopt changes to the Transport Tax Act. That is not true and does not stand, because much remains as a burden on other parts and a difficulty on the citizens' budget. Of course, if the next item of the agenda is the budget that you'll explain to the citizens, if last year's budget was 129 billion, and now it's up to 103 billion, from which kind of revenue will be filled when the industry in Serbia works poorly and you don't think donations are the only thing we have to deal with in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15955	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 44, against 118, a abstentioned one, was not voted 18, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular and the decision on amendments, does the Proposer's representative want the final word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15956	I would just like to thank you for the discussion and say that in the event that you are voting for these changes in the Transport Tax Act, we will have a meeting in the Government of the Republic of Serbia with representatives of the food industry, slaughterhouses, as well as organised shops, and next week with all relevant drug subjects, orthopedic aids. On December 31st, a list will be made, so that from January 1st, lower prices will be a reality for our citizens and not only that, we will make it clear that inspection services, above all; market inspections have very carefully recorded the situation in these markets, so that no strange things are happening in the next few days, allegedly increasing prices and after a natural reduction. And after that, of course, additional controls in weeks and months that come from market inspection, but also from a federal level regarding the anti-monopoly commission. I hope you vote for it, and it'll be on its way in an hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15957	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act as a whole. For 125, against 48, the abstentions were not voted 9th, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Tax Act. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ACCISATION LAW(s) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic, Dragan Todorovic and a group of 21 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. You've received reports from the Finance and Legislative Committee. Since the Finance Committee has not delivered a report, and the Government considers amendments submitted to the draft law, I remind you that, under Article 136(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly may decide to consider the bill without them or to set a new deadline within which they are required to do so. I propose that the National Assembly decide to consider the bill without a report from the Committee on Finance and Government opinion. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 114, against 40, the abstentions did not vote 21, a total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided to consider the bill without a report from the Committee on Finance and Government opinions. Since the National Custodial, after a joint principle search has been concluded, under which the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. A group of 21 MPs of the SRS group submitted to the 1st amendment. The amendment will be explained by Ambassador Bozidar Vucurovic. The Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15958	I can't sing all the time. This is serious. I'm glad you finally explained that working on boards means nothing and that committees shouldn't exist. I said, we can discuss the law, both in principle and in particular, without reports from the board and without reports from the government. That means we don't need committees, and we don't need government. I gave the amendment to Article 1 on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, with the intention of removing the disproportion in those segments of the effect of exempting the law on sales tax and financial effects, which will be obtained through the adoption of amendments to the Excise Act. The minister didn't tell us what the financial effects of taxation were last year, those items we've now released from sales taxes. I'll tell him; the financial effects of tax collection, for those items we've now freed from sales taxes, have been moving around about 500 million dinars in the past year. The Excise Act will increase total budget receipts by about 10 billion dinars. To cover what we've freed from sales taxes, it's enough, let's say, not 500 million, but two billion. These eight billion will go on road repairs. Of course, you know who's doing this repair; of course, who's building the roads. The excise on the naphtha derivatives is big anyway. Not all oil derivatives are covered by excise duty. There are possibilities of smuggling, manipulation and everything else. We almost read in the paper the title: "The diluent is called, and it looks like oil." Of course, the bitumen diluent is diesel fuel, both by composition and by all means. It's just called a bitumen diluent, and it's the only thing you don't pay for excise duty. It's not a bitumen diluent that's the only medium derivative that doesn't pay excise duties. Every refinery makes one product that's actually diesel fuel and then baptizes it. "Novosol" from 1 to 10, "veld" from 1 to 30, wet fuel from 1 to 50, etc. That's not an excise charge. If the excise is paid for those medium derivatives, the anthem plays sorry for me, the same effects would be achieved as if the excise was raised on gasoline. Now you're telling us that birch is a luxury. You're telling us that those who drive the flag of a vehicle are mostly 10, 15 and 20 years old, that they should pay a luxury tax, actually a luxury excise. Those who drive jeeps, who drive turbo diesel machines, they're poor and we'll release them from excise duty. I think it is necessary for this amendment to be accepted, because the financial effects, I say, will be exactly the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15959	Thank you. The word has a finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15960	First, and we found that at the moment of the discussion of the new excise law in March this year, Mr. Vucurovic is very well aware of this matter. I am sure that as a citizen of our country, and I think that in that profession for several years, it has been very pleased with the effects of the regulation of the Republic of Serbia, which has in many ways transferred money from private pockets to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So we managed to put order into that market and we managed to pay off a lot of things from the budget, and the sooner it went into some private pockets. I'm sure he's very pleased with that outcome. As far as the financial effects are concerned, you have them in the draft budget law. Like I said, I'm not hiding anything. The effects of fiscally proposed measures this year are neutral. But what we have, which is that our citizens who smoke cigarettes, first of all those in category A, i.e. The more expensive, the more import, the more excise. And those who have passenger cars will pay and already pay for gas something more expensive than they used to pay for. That only brings us to the price of gasoline that exists in Montenegro. Meanwhile, salaries and pensions in Serbia are much closer to what is happening in Montenegro. As for "nosol", there you are, Mr. Vukurovic, right. There was a smuggling and an abuse, where it came through mixing to the elevator. However, the energy ministry launched a single action three months ago. It's cut a lot of what happened in that domain. It is not possible to impose an excise duty on "nosol" at this point, because it is one very important import material for three key industries in our country, which is skin, color and varnishes. At that point, we would have one injustice: something would get into those dams that would be burdened with excise duty, and they don't produce excise products, so it wouldn't be right. If we look at the structure of the excise that was introduced this year, and how we've listened to many, even you at the moment of the search. So some things, like lighting oil, that used to be misused, now have a 3.8 dinar excise, and that's how we avoided the attraction of that mixing product. So you're right, but at this point, imposing an excise on Novosol wouldn't be the right thing to do. The abuses were, they were gone, they were going against it, and it would be unfair for three very important dams that aren't exactly in the best shape of our country right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15961	Is anyone else answering for this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15962	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Minister, in his final statement, on the proposal for a law amending the Transport Tax Act, said that there are obvious phenomena on the market that many producers of those products that are now tax-free will suddenly raise prices to these products so that, with 20% tax cuts, or tax evasion, the retail price of that product remains the same as it is now. Or, to pour the former tax into their pockets. What we're going to say about the government of the Republic of Serbia that has already predicted and installed these excise duties in an increase in the price of gasoline. Isn't that the same thing? Isn't that the same trade mentality and spirit? You're accusing individuals of doing this. It's what the government did with the price of motor gasoline. Now you convince us that this increase in excise duty will not increase the retail price at all and that this increase in excise duty will be included in the prices that apply, which are the prices that apply from four to five days ago, Minister. You've raised the price of gasoline to convince us here in the Assembly that the price of gasoline will not be raised. Well, I know it won't be at least 5, 10, 15 days. If he had any sense, we should ask you why he's already got 1.50 - 1.60 liters of gasoline in Serbia. Where did that come from? What, when you have to warn us of something here, your parameter is Austria, when you need something else, Montenegro's parameter, when you need something third, Macedonia? You can't get caught up with who you're comparing to anymore. Who is the parameter for the Republic of Serbia now, that we know once and for all? Shall we compare ourselves to the Republic of Serbia, shall we go to America? Let's know who we're comparing with, not -- if they're prices, to this country, if it's production, to that. God can no longer understand what this is about. You talk whatever you want, but the tax on gasoline is now increasing by 46%, and the legal excise is increasing by 80%, which was listed in the law as 10 dinars in nominal terms. It's all true. Do not convince us that the smuggling of oil derivatives is prevented by importing exclusively through the Croatian pipeline and giving it another 20%. We, citizens of Serbia, give to Croatia, help build it, as you call it here - "the goals of Croatia's development policy" we only help because by some unconstitutional regulation you have condemned us to spend the derivatives that are coming through the Croatian pipeline. ( Bozidar Djelic: Not derivatives. All right, crude oil. It wasn't smuggling importing crude oil to our ships. That's not true, Minister. It wasn't smuggling imports of crude oil to our railway compositions, it wasn't smuggling import of crude oil or individual car tanks, for a country that wanted to control it. It's a 12-metre tanker. Find me that tanker that can cross the border crossing so the state doesn't see it, that one state authority doesn't notice that it's gone, that no one comes near him to get a driver's license, not papers, not a final destination, a refinery where the crude oil will be processed. All those stories about citizens who have a lot of money so they drive a passenger car to motor gasoline and other citizens who are poor and drive a passenger car that drives diesel, they fall into the water, Mr. Minister. It's a story for small children, because 60-70% of the cars in Serbia are the production of a car factory in Kragujevac. The average age of those cars is over 12 years and they're all on gasoline. Is that what you're telling us now that we're all going to go shopping for imported cars that trigger diesel fuel, and we're going to have a cheaper ride because, oh, God, it's not a luxury diesel fuel. You find a mode for angry cars, let them pay an angry price, no matter what fuel it is. I'm willing to accept that one who can drive a 2,500-cubic jeep, even though it's on diesel, should pay a much higher price for fuel than one who drives a 12-year-old south; if that's how you want social justice, even though in the world, I haven't noticed that social justice is being conducted. (President: Time. But the stories for the little kids you bring us here, you're doing nothing. Therefore, do not accuse others of raising prices so as not to feel the effect of reducing sales taxes; the state did so just a few days ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15963	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to Article 1 to the vote. For 35, against 98, the abstentions were not voted by 27, a total of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On 1st position, the 1st amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic and Dragan Todorovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15964	Dear People's MPs, I know it's a little awkward, lunch is approaching, so there's a little more anxiety, and all of us are less in the O.R., but it doesn't mind that your attention is briefly tied to this proposed amendment, as the chairman said, which we suggested by Jović Nebojsa, Todorovic Dragan and me. It's about the next thing - Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Excises ("Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", number 22/01), in Article 9(1), point (1), the amount is replaced by the amount "10.00 din/lit" and in point 2) the amount "7.00 din/lit" is replaced by "10.00 din/lit". Or, translated into Serbian -- the excise on these oil derivatives, or oil products, is increasing from 10 to 18, or from 7 to 10 dinars, on the grounds that it is necessary to raise the budget to raise more excise funds and that this will be done in a way proposed by this legal solution. We believe that this proposed increase is huge, that it is not adequate, that it will be paid by citizens. Whether it is direct payments or indirect, through an increase in prices, whether it is services or products, however, will be paid by the final consumer, or by the citizen. The reason that this won't get in the way of a price change isn't entirely true. That it was carried out and consistent with the cost growth of less than 38%, how much was it equal to 2001 compared to 2000, and according to the Statistics Office report 67/01, in the latest published data in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, it is exactly 38.5%. We've suggested that this excise be corrected precisely for that amount. It means that in Article 9(1) of point 1), the amount of “10.00 din/lit” shall be replaced by “13,85 din/lit”, and in point 2) the amount of “7.00 din/lit” shall be replaced by “9.60 din/lit”, which will accompany the existing cost increase, i.e. a small price and will not significantly affect the existing price. There is another option, which is that from the existing reserves, since the minister claims that there will be no increase, he takes a tax on price differences made in the producer and does not harm, or does not affect end-users, or consumers. The explanation that these funds will finance education and the travel network, as well as from cigarettes, I do not think it is appropriate because the amounts provided for financing part of health care and part of education, as regards certain interventions in repairing the material situation of these two essential segments of society, I think they are much less than the amount to be set up by various agencies, for paying the various travel costs foreseen by the new budget. The Minister, of course, doesn't listen, the government doesn't listen. The government won't report on the proposal, not according to the amendments, although it is said that yesterday at 1400 hours, we didn't get any papers from the government. She didn't respect this congregation at all. Well, whether you're okay or not, I don't know, but we're sure as hell not gonna be okay with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15965	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, as representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15966	Do you care that the congregation is working or that time is running out of order? I don't mention the quorum, even though there's no quorum in the O.R. and there's little noise in you like there's two hundred of you. Have a little patience, you care that the law is passed as soon as possible. We care about pointing out what's wrong with the law because we pointed out the same thing in March of the month and we were absolutely right. So I think I explained in detail the SRS's position on excise duties provided for in Article 1 of this proposal. There remains one question that Serbian citizens should ask the government, especially the finance and economy minister. The question is simple, the answer to it too. If the minister has it, of course, and if he wants to give it. In the year the inflation was 30% to 35%, in that year, in nine months of excise duty, we doubled. The question arises, why did we increase all the expenditure that citizens have, from the price of water to the price of electricity, to the average of double, and the electricity triple and quadruple for the red tariff. Why, when inflation was between 30% and 35% and why did it not affect population standards at all? Or, let's ask the guardian of the state treasure of the Republic of Serbia where he spent that money, where the huge money that Serbian citizens allocated for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in which inflation was 30%, in which all our allocations for state charges were doubled. We tried the amendment to Article 1 to return excise duties to a level that was not acceptable in March this year when the government proposed it. These excises we're looking for are the ones you said would apply this year. You only increase them by 46% after nine months. But for over 80% of the percentages that were legally foreseen. Well, you owe us an explanation, because we've entrusted you with the huge money you're taking from us by law, beyond our will. With the decision of the assembly majority, which will now be very suspicious, because if there are no 126 out of 250 MPs in the hall and the government supports 176 MPs, the citizens have the right to ask which of the majority of us you are introducing the burdens. Do you have the right to impose burdens on citizens of the Republic of Serbia with other people's cards? We'll control the quorum rigorously when there's a vote in general on this bill and on the budget law. I am telling you, the SRS will now file criminal charges against those MPs whose card has been misused in this assembly. I can't control who put his card in the unit, but I know whose card was inserted into the MP's unit when he wasn't here. Well, let him say who stole his card and used it in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15967	There is a word from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, representative of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15968	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are quite enough for this kind of debate and I think it is clear that calling for quorum and avoiding asking that question is nothing more than a simple political demagogy. As for the amendment and addition of the Excise Act, we will be very happy to support the changes and additions to which this type of product will be additionally burdened, while at the same time achieving the resources to avoid a minus in the state register, given that liberalisation that was present through the names and additions of the Transport Tax Act. It is clear that we have one register and that by distancing this kind of activity we would actually produce a minus, not in parliament, and not in the "Official Messenger" that this law will publish, but in fact in a state register in which we must allocate funds for pensions, for child benefits, for restructuring the economy, for restructuring energy funds. It is true that the current has accumulated, but it is also true that this time we have electricity, that the EPS produced 150 million kilowatts of hours, that it has broken all production records and that, in spite of all the challenges, Serbia has a neat supply of electricity. It is true that inflation is below 40%, but not because someone in this society has printed money, but because they are removing disparities in prices. Anyone who works in this country must really charge their product, and I think the DOS parliamentary group will certainly support that kind of policy. I am confident that other parties will support it, past the DOS parliamentary group. As for all future amendments to the Bill on Amendments of the Excise Law, I think it is clear that we will not give up this kind of policy; that it is further taxed, say, a pack of cigarettes; at least in that situation until that package is fiscally burdened and in other societies: 57% is standard and this standard will be reached in the next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15969	There is a word from MP Dragan Tomic, a representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the wish of the SPS MPs was to introduce a real burden when it comes to increasing the excise duty on motor oil and diesel fuel, for the simple reason that we are in such an economic situation that unreal burdens cannot without leading to an increase in prices. We've had one increase in the price of 5 dinar oil derivatives these days. Now we have an increase in excise duty of 8 dinars per litre. It is simply amazing that manufacturers, or sellers, will find their own account, although we know that the earlier government decision was left to the sellers of three dinars per litre as their margin. If we now have an increase in the price of 5 dinars and an increase in the excise duty of 8 dinars, they will also have that margin that existed earlier definitely erased. So, in my opinion, some artificial way, in a shorter time, you can hold the situation without an increase in prices, and I think that in the next two months we will absolutely have an increase in oil prices and oil derivatives. So it doesn't be that the Socialist Party is against everything. That's not true. We advocate the introduction of a dinar that will be invested in roads, only real dinars, dinars that can be paid by citizens. Because this continues to be overpouring to consumers, to a citizen who allegedly has a salary of 200 marks. Well, he doesn't have a 200-mark salary and he can't pay this new price. Because he pays the European price and drives a Serbian car, drives a nine or ten-year-old car. Therefore, we must make sure that citizens can pay for it. I'm saying again, they can't even pay this price, and if the other one is going to, that's a relative question. Therefore, the amendment makes a lot of sense, he also talks about increasing prices to a small extent according to the latest officially published data. That's 38.5%, and we suggest that the price per liter of gasoline be 13.85 dinars, and for oil and oil derivatives 9.60.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15971	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 41, against 96, the abstentions were not voted 22, out of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment. The amendment will be explained by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15972	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't know I'd be a representative of the parliamentary group. This could be explained by another Serbian Radical Party MP. The motives for which we have proposed this amendment are the same as those for which we managed when we wrote the amendment to Article 1. This is just about cigarettes, one painful one, I would say even cancer-scarred by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has found chaos in the traffic of these products and done everything in its power to keep chaos. If we had a tobacco mafia until the DOS came to power and a huge smuggling of cigarettes as excise goods, that phenomenon was not contained by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is at the same level now, because the data on how it was and how it is now completely unreachable to the public. We have some reports from the Federal Urpave Customs, which dares to say - we have reduced the smuggling of cigarettes to only 17%, and no one can ask them, and even if that is true, where the 17% enters, why the Federal Customs Administration and all our inspection bodies allow the budget to be reduced by 17%, or that citizens are burdened by some more money based on the consumption of other products and services, just because the state won't charge their revenues. You invented the category of Kosovo and Metohija, as an exteriority from the Republic of Serbia, as a territory where none of our laws apply. It is not abroad, but serves as abroad so papers can go there and go back to Serbia without going to Kosovo and Metohija at all. It would be really crazy and stupid to arrange for the tow truck to go to Kosovo and Metohija and return from Kosovo and Metohija when they are still in Serbia. What is it about Article 2? A bill of law? You're increasing excise duties on tobacco, which were introduced in March of this year and then increased by 50%. Now you're drastically increasing them and you're justifying that still burdens aren't on a pack of cigarettes 57% of the value of cigarettes. That means, for most Serbian citizens, not me and my family, but for most Serbian citizens, that means - expect a new pack of cigarettes. That means -- you expect an ever-increasing cigarette smuggling. It's kind of embarrassing to talk about. World countries are mostly supported by these products, from oil derivatives, alcohol, cigarettes. But this is how you burden people who are already addicted to one great evil. A cigarette is a big evil. The government of the Republic of Serbia knows that no smoker will give up cigarettes, but there may be fewer milk in the house. Because the smoker will no longer pay for a pack of 35 dinar cigarettes, but 45 dinars. You get me from DOS as much as you want, so you throw in March of the month this year, and it turns out we were absolutely right. Don't be a political rival to lead you to hate us because we're going out for a pay phone. I'd like you to go out for a pay phone, defend all this stuff you're doing and tell me on a specific case that it's better for Serbia or not, to tell me why you're doing this for the cigarette factories you're about to build, wherever some local escape or leader is going. The factories that already exist in the country, you want us to shut down. The cigarette factory in Zrenjanin doesn't work at all. No one mentions her. Where are these new tobacco bosses who are now likely to be advertised on television, radio and newspapers (I will talk about it in particular). Why don't they use existing capacity in the country? Why build something new? (President: Time. Since it's, as you say, "time," let me explain. We're just offering you an amendment to keep the excises at the level at which they are now, not to increase them further, and by the way, as one transparent authority, to warn you that you have a lot of advertising on television, in front of our children's eyes, in prime terms, and alcohol and cigarettes. You can't convince anyone that the "Johnny Walker" commercial for Johnny Walker is not a whiskey commercial, there's no other product in the world called "Johnny Walker," there's no one else called "teachers" except alcohol. Not those new cigarettes that came out when you made up with that little MP group, don't represent them as a magazine and as a book, they are, ladies and gentlemen, cigarettes. They're not allowed to advertise. They cause a minimum lung cancer if they don't affect other organs. Forget about the profits and turn around a little bit to the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15973	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15974	Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, by excise duties on cigarettes, we receive a billion dinars, of which 700 million will be forwarded to the Health Fund and 300 million to the School Infrastructure Fund. So these are the funds that will be received by increasing excise duties and I think it's a legitimate increase. Of course, we will always support that logic in which there will be no sign of equality between food and cigarettes, leaving everyone to assess whether it is more important for the family or tobacco for him personally. [[Tomislav Nikolic is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15975	You're not mentioned at all, and you're not misrepresented. It's nothing offensive. There's no basis for replication. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 42, against 99, the abstentions were not voted 23, a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The first amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jovic, Joca Arsic and Dragan Todorovic. The Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. He has the word Mr. Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15976	As has already been said, we three MPs have again submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act. Our amendment differs from the amendment of the predecessors as much as in the same way as in excise duty on oil derivatives, we tried to align the increase with the growth of costs to a small, according to the methodology that was established, or according to the report delivered by the official authority, from the Statistical Office; the price rise to a small amount of 38.5% in the observed period 2001. - 2002. Such harmonised increases would be, instead of proposed, as follows: to be in Article 2.(Article 10(1)) in point 1), the amount of 12 dinars per pack shall be replaced by 19) in point 2) with the amount of 5 din/pax. replace the amount of not 8.50 din/pak. 6.92 din/puck. and in point 3) an amount of 2 din/puck. replace the amount of no 4) 2,77 din/puck. I think it is appropriate, in addition to this explanation, that the funds, which represent the difference between the funds raised, will be used in health and education compared to the previous period. There are enough reserves in the budget to be found, e.g. that in the financing of various agencies, and it seems to me that there are seven, these funds are being rerouted and the secretaries are being reduced to budgets, reduced by taking from the people, and they end up doing the same job, savings, non-payment of other items from the budget, such as those for agencies, travel expenses, or contracts, with different agencies, which are roughly between two or four billion dinars. So I'm sure there are reserves in the budget and these funds can finance these things that we want to finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15977	He has the word Mr. Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15978	The SPS parliamentary group has shown, with its amendment, that to increase excise prices and redistribution of funds, as the promoter has explained. So, we advocate that health care, i.e. education, receive funding from this, as provided for in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act. However, we must say that the proposed level has gone drastically from the average rise in prices to a little bit in the last quarter and we appreciate that this increase would already raise cigarette prices on the domestic market significantly. Regardless of how we view it in a certain way and about cigarettes, we plead as a necessary evil, we know that many Serbian citizens consume cigarettes and that we are a high consumer market when it comes to cigarettes. Also, when we talked about the famous polling committee the other day, cigarette consumption in Serbia is determined to be measured by millions or billions of marks on the domestic market. We believe that even an adventurous increase, meaning, of the 38.5 excise, as my predecessor said, would be sufficient to secure this level of funds. Otherwise, we think that this increase hides certain reserves within itself that the proposer here has not finally made it clear in terms of whether it's a billion or slightly more than a billion. We think it's more than a billion, and we assume that the government's funds, or the promoter, the Ministry of Finance and Economy, have not shown the public. So we think that this envelope will be enough to make a billion, which has been discussed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15979	Anybody else answer for a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15980	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come out to say that unfortunately we cannot agree with this amendment, although it has been proposed by the opposition parliamentary group; the principle cannot be about predicting some kind of inflation and that the Government is expanding a little framework that imposes on it the current situation. Why do I say that - we increased excise duties in March of the month. The increase back then covered the overall inflation that we experienced this year in Serbia. Why are we now increasing excise duties and justifying it with inflation this year? This year's inflation was covered in March of the month when we raised the excise duties. That was the excuse of the finance minister and the ruling majority - to predict so much and so much inflation and to fully cover the budget we increase the excise duties by so much and so much. There's no excuse to increase excise duties, except for that commercial mentality -- it's going to cost so much and so much, let me put it into the price right away, and the ministry is going to put into excises some planned inflation for next year. Take it easy, let's start next year, and we'll see how things go. Maybe it won't be enough of the 38% you're giving them now. Therefore, our amendment was clear - the excise duties remain at the level at which they were found today because they covered inflation for this year. A much greater increase in excise duties is either than officially recognised inflation by the government of the Republic of Serbia. There is only one thing that should further explain, and that is your famous acceptance and putting into an equal position of foreign and domestic products. It can't, we'll be ruined by all industry, Mr. Minister, if you're just fiscally and just reading foreign regulations here, you're conducting monetary policy. It can't stand our economy the same burdens that sustain developed world economies, it can't be competitive. We have to separate at least a few more years of our production by. Obviously we have to, otherwise you're a witness to how much production we've lost this year. I may not see well, but our factories aren't working. Someone should convince me that the factories are working. I see they're not working. It's all about our products on the market, more and more foreign goods. Go to Serbia's cities to see what Slovenian goods are doing. How the Elektronic Industry is going to sell its claim when you've fully introduced Iscru, Burning, all the other Slovenian producers and already dictate the price. How will our confectors, this is an area I knew very well at the time, how will they withstand competition with Slovenian products? You know what they're gonna do? It will raise the prices of our confection by Slovenian confection and will be lower by 5 to 10%. Because there's no control anymore, no more of our production, no more of our corrections made by our production, and how will our production be competitive, how will it be competitive when 30 dinars of stamps are already a year? The Germans work 24 hours a day, and we don't have anyone doing anything and their brand can't get away from the dinars at all. If you have large foreign reserves, let the people see some benefits. Don't keep Kir Janja in the chiffoniers. Show the people why he went to all this trouble for a year and may at least have some improvement among the citizens of Serbia because he suffered last year. No, you go on like that, and now you're going to put the addict on a load and tell him -- now think about whether you're going to buy cigarettes or milk. Many of you know what it looks like when a man is an addict, so I can see that neither did they.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15981	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15982	Just one sentence, not to be inconclusive, why the Socialist Party advocates an increase in excise prices. The reason is very simple, we've heard from the government that funds are intended for health and education. We think that the level of what we have suggested is quite enough, and we also think that there is room for this level of increase, but it has to be consistent with the paid power of the population.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15983	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 27, against 120, the abstentions were not voted 20, a total of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 3rd amendment. The amendment will be explained by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15984	You can sit down. You don't have to stand there while I'm talking. The bill's proposal is to give the minister the discretionary right to allow the imports of excise products and their storage indefinitely, without the importing of a state importer may not have paid a single dinar, so that in a few months, when the import dust settles, the goods sell and the money ends up in private pockets. We have witnessed the kind of dirty work that the ruling majority of the previous week was doing during the shift and appointment of the President of the Assembly. It was not a cigarette shop, it was a cigarette factory. You let Canca build a Ronhill cigarette factory or some other factory from their beautiful, to give you votes in the Assembly. And Mr. Baggerist didn't go bad. Em one good jeep, then some commercials, so you're not buying a newspaper, you're buying his cigarettes on the bar. What we Serbian radicals support is that excise warehouses can only have domestic cigarette and excise goods manufacturers, with a clearly prescribed method of storage and dispatch, and that taxes can be paid to the state when domestic excise goods leave the excise warehouse. It's the only thing Serbian radicals can accept about this. If it is known that a huge profit is being made in the excise goods trade, which would put the state in a position to keep records of the storage of goods, when the country is most certain that the importer of foreign excise goods pays all taxes, customs and excise duties at the border, and the importer should do whatever he wants with the goods. This bill of law isn't good, but it smells like a robbery. He smells bad. Like most of the laws you've proposed so far that you're legalizing the mafia's operations of various mob lobbies from the government. Such powers are granted to a man who is a persona non grata in all the countries where he participated in the transition is a complete madness. Mr. Minister is only passing through Serbia, on a journey through Serbia. At first, we were greatly pleased by his appearance, but now this bad boy wants to make us accomplices to legalising cigarette smuggling and other excise goods. We, Serbian radicals, will not participate in this, and I hope that the other honourable MPs will vote in favour of this amendment. This will help the minister resist the pressure of Kaisers and other lobbyists of excise goods to avoid customs and excise duties, i.e. to pay whenever he wants, if he will, and usually will not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15985	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 39, against 109 abstention, one did not vote 20, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 4th amendment. The amendment will be explained by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15986	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment to Article 4 since the draft law does not pay the excise on salt for food in 2002 and 2003, i.e. time-limited, this member of the law. The amendment to the SRS states that excise salt is not paid at all, so there is no time limit at all. First of all, let me remind you, at the time of March, we solely insisted that the excise on salt not be introduced at all. In the exposé of Prime Ministers, he said, among other things, when he explained: "The goal of the government is to significantly improve the standard of living in this year. According to official data, from the average family income, the four-member family can pay 70% of the consumer basket. Our goal is that at the end of 2001, the average family can buy at least an entire consumer basket from its profits. It is one of the measures of our economic policy's success." If the government has succeeded in that, you can judge for yourself. So, the government's goals are absolutely not achieved, not even the minimum. It's an interesting explanation for this member. It says it will contribute to increasing the competitiveness of our salt processors and increasing salt placement in Kosovo and Metohija. Is this how the government indirectly acknowledges that we simply do not have the energy in Kosovo and Metohija anymore, that Serbia's sovereignty and integrity no longer fully fast. Obviously, the explanation is not adequate and I would ask Minister Djelic to understand what makes salt and how important, and I will try to explain it to him. Since he's already competing to be Minister of Health, then I'll explain more to him, medical indications of the importance of salt. The need for sodium chlorine is satisfied with the intake of the kitchen salt. Kitchen salt is pure sodium chloride and obtained from minerals. It's rock salt, and it can be collected in salts, or it's sea salt. The daily intake of food into the organism between 9 and 15 grams of salt, with 50% of the kitchen salt, 30% of the bread, 20% of the milk, cheese and sausage. So has a significant role in the body, has an energy, nutrient role, a role in metabolism, biochemismism of cells and body fluids, in secretion and excretion. The basic physiological role is to protect the health condition of the organism, ensure and regulate the metabolism of nutrients and water. Due to the regulation of ozone pressure and process in cells and tissues, constant composition of blood, tissue, tissue fluids and regulation of muscle and nerve irritation is maintained. The food deficit causes specific diseases from the quarantine group. The lack of iodine causes hyperthyroidism, and in the form of endemic strum, which is a mandatory iodine prophylaxis, i.e. iodinating salts for food, i.e. salt for kitchen, veterinary, industrial use. Therefore, add 10 milligrams of potassium iodide to one kilogram of salt. I think these are enough reasons to really accept the amendment to the SRS. That argument of yours really isn't appropriate, and you probably didn't write it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15987	The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, as representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apparently the Government has no secretariat for legislation, and obviously there is no Secretariat of the National Assembly, because such a bill could not be found in our assembly procedure at all. Especially not this Article 4 on which the SRS has submitted its amendment. Let me remind you, this is about a bill of amendments and additions to some law. We suddenly have a Article 4 in that law that doesn't change a single member of the law. It introduces a whole new provision, a salt excise is not paid for 2002 and 2003. What a member of the law changes and complements, no one knows. Furthermore, the opposition to the congregation service, where we are here in the bill of law members of the laws that are being amended by this bill, which is a business condition in order to get something into the assembly procedure at all. Now, in one day, MPs must run and run to seek the law so far, so that they can adequately speak for the assembly speaker. Or you're doing this to us consciously, so that we don't have enough data and that the debate would not be adequate with the efforts of the MPs. It is a cynical justification for Article 4. For the sake of public speaking, Article 4 of this law stipulates that we do not pay excise duty only in 2002 and 2003. The explanation says: The abolition of the obligation to pay for excise salt in 2002 and 2003 will contribute to increasing the competitiveness of our salt processors, especially through the increase of salt placement in AP Kosovo and Metohija." Do any of you ladies and gentlemen of the people know who in Serbia is processing salt? What is the name of this company that processes an article that we don't even have in the production program in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Do you, under import and packaging, calculate the processing of salt or perhaps the salt is not enough for human consumption, so it is here that you enrich it with iodine or do something to it. Generally, there is no Serbian producer in the store. If there is no domestic product, then why release excise foreign products. You're just trying to convince us that we can't separate sides from domestic producers. Now, all of a sudden, for the importer, the release from excise duty, as if it would affect the price at which our citizen will buy that product. It's a monopoly, a monopoly product. As much as he sets the price, we'll pay the salt. Just release him and the excises, so he can do whatever he wants. What an excuse to place our processor in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. I really don't understand, I guess it should be a clear excuse, we want to provide Serbian citizens with cheaper salt for food. We're deprived of 20 or already how many percent that went to the state. Here, the citizens of Serbia are slowly lowering the level of your burdens. We have come from certain products via sales tax, here we now and through excise duties allow you to live cheaper, and I don't care how much KFOR will pay and how much the Cypriots in Kosovo and Metohija will pay. Don't convince me that Serbs have a chance to get out, go to the store and buy salt for our processor from Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15989	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 40, against 119 abstentions, 17 of the 176 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 SRS MPs. The amendment will be explained by MP Milorad Mircic. The Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15990	The promoter primarily had in mind, proposing these amendments and additions to the law, both the income and the expenditure side of the budget, and the possibility where the government is looking for space, to increase the additional tax, and that some basic taxes, as the government here has presented, abolished or reduced. However, the minister himself, who is in charge of budgetary policy and by adopting a new budget, is not sure whether such changes, especially excise products, will cause market disturbances or what the citizens of Serbia are most interested in, will result in an increase in prices. It was confirmed yesterday and in the media, that he is not sure, that he does not know if there will be an increase in prices. With one fence, he believes there won't be an increase in prices. Especially when it comes to an increase in oil and oil derivatives. The resulting increase in energy prices is due to an increase in cost of life. We have convinced ourselves countless times so far, on the government's insistence that there will be no market disturbances, that there will be no price hikes, however that happens. Of course, it's a recognizable mechanism, it's nothing new, it's what we meet in Serbia, with shortages of certain items. That's how it's gonna be now when it comes to oil and oil derivatives. Why do we, the Serbian radicals, want above all amendments to help the government, or to suggest that it complete this amendment and supplement? For the simple reason that there is speculation in every disorder, and in this case when new tax laws are passed, specifically excise tax, there is something that no one would want. From the moment of entry into force of this law after the publication of the Official Messenger, from the moment this law begins to apply, no matter how many administrations, currently at the disposal of the Government, are numbered and in any other way qualified, cannot prevent speculation in this case. Why can't he? Because these amendments and additions to the laws apply to products that have been newly created and purchased, and according to the automation or the habit acquired so far under this law will include those products that have been previously manufactured, purchased and are in stock. Who's benefiting? In essence, traders, sellers, those who have already benefited enormously large benefits, of course against the law, thanks to this kind of thing, one thoughtlessness or negligence, better said, by the promoter. That's why it's better to leave one period where the government, using its available instruments, would list old supplies, list all the goods that are now in storage, so that it can create exactly what products it can start to calculate a new excise tax. Telling stories that it will not happen are not meaningful, after all they are not desirable, because we all know what is done in Serbia. Secondly, what is very important, for excise goods to this day, the government has not introduced a way and rule of how categorization is done. Here we've heard, the minister has fully agreed, that in the case of new salt, it's one of a series of oil derivatives, there's no way the government can intervene. Imagine what it'll be like when it comes to cigarettes, especially import cigarettes. The manufacturer shall also determine the category of cigarettes by its declaration. What's the whole point of what the tobacco factory or the Rovinj cigarette factory is doing? By earning on the Serbian market, they themselves are predetermining the category of cigarettes. The Serbian market regulated the category by doing so through the name of cigarettes, and there is no standardized what is needed in the composition of cigarettes to be the category. (President: Time. ) Here is the most affected category of cigarettes produced by domestic tobacco producers. The same category of cigarettes, imported from Rovinj, will be less covered by the excise tax, greater benefit to those who import that tobacco without talking about the benefit of those who produce and place it on the Serbian market.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15991	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 46, against 122 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed a review of the Bill's proposal in particular and a decision on amendments, does the Proposer's representative want a word? He wants to. ) The word has Minister Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15992	Dear MPs, just a few words if you vote for these changes in a few seconds. As far as the effects are concerned, we'll have them as early as January 1st. Gas and diesel prices will not be increased because there is a government regulation and this regulation was amended weeks or 10 days ago. Prices will stay on the level they are today. As for cigarettes, we'll see, since we're a market economy now. However, there are indications that these prices will not increase significantly, especially for those lower categories that smoke our masses. What do we get with this? We'll get funds to build or repair 340 kilometers of our roads, get a billion dollars for health care and education. As for these brands that are spoken of, as far as tobacco is concerned, ask the CEOs of the Nis or Vranje tobacco industry, ask them why they managed to increase production by 40% this year, why they introduced the third shift, why is this the best year in the history of these industries? As for oil, ask them why the effects of this regulation produce results, that for the first time in the last 12 years, the Panchevo Oil Refinery managed to make a profit? And you'll get an answer. Thank you and I hope you will vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15993	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in general. For 126, against 47, the abstentioned were not voted nine, a total of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. [[After break - 15.45.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Let me welcome the Prime Minister, Vice President and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002. YOU have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. With the bill, you received the material "Economic Policy and Budget 2002", which was delivered to the National Assembly by Mr Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Finance and Economy to discuss the bill. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Đura Lazić, Goran Vesić, Pal Shandor, Marko Culibrk, Sreten Mitrović, Rajko Baralić, Živanko Radovančević, together Petar Cvetković, Dusan Ilic and Predrag Mijailović, Slobodan Pavlovic, Predrag Mijailović, Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, Ljubomir Mucic, together Zoran Radovanović and Branko Ružić, Velimir Živojnović, Živodarka Dacin, Miomir Ilic, Joca Arsić, together Milan Stanković and Borisvoje Drakulović, Radojko Petrović, together Milan Stanković, Slobodan Tomović, Bora Stanmirović, Nebojša Jović, Dragan Todorović and Radojko Petrović, as well as a group of 21 MPs of the Serbian Radojko Radical group. National MP Predrag Mijailovic informed the National Assembly that he was withdrawing the amendment to Article 9. The bill, which was submitted on 20 December 2001. You received a report from the Finance Committee. At the meeting of the Finance Committee, the opinion was set aside by MP Ljubomir Mucic. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I'm opening a principled search. I give my word to the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15995	Good afternoon, dear fellow Members of the People. This is the second consecutive budget of the Republic of Serbia, which should at the same time provide several functions: firstly, of course, the reconciliation of legal obligations towards the users of the budget, but at the same time one very complex, complicated multiple transition of our public sector, our public finances, our economy and society as a whole. Unfortunately, this is once again a budget of savings and survival, a budget that does not leave much room for manoeuvre in public finances to truly define some priorities that the Assembly could then discuss and that we would have the money from public income that would allow us, to give you MPs and us -- governments and different ministries, to define what a development priority is and where we can intervene with that money, to manage our country and our society through public finances. So when you see the structure of this budget, you'll see that there's very little room to think about. Simply, the fixed costs arising from legal obligations and the social situation that forces us to focus most of our income on covering these social costs leave little room for politics. So far, this isn't a political budget, he's got some kind of budget philosophy that I'm going to try to brief you on. But neither we as Government, and I suppose you as MPs can find much space for some ideas and investment in some big projects. About 30% of this budget, which I assume is one of the highest percentages in the modern economies at all, is set aside to cover social needs, partly because some other actions (such as funds, contributions) fail to fully cover legal rights, so that from this budget, as you will see, they are partly funded and some social contributions that would otherwise be financed from other sources. This stems from a very unfavourable structure and relationship between the economy and the non-economic sector in our country. Roughly speaking, without the pretense of being precise in detail, we can say that around 1,800,000 people have been employed in our country. Of these 1,800,000 people, about 300,000 receive their salary from the budget. Furthermore, 500,000 are working in non-equity enterprises, which are partly located in the bankruptcy process or are directly ahead of the bankruptcy process. So about 800,000 people don't actually work in businesses dealing with healthy economic activity. We have about a million people who are employed in such companies. This comes from about 1,300,000 pensioners who receive pensions from contributions paid by employees. We have about 700,000 unemployed citizens who don't make any contributions, and they use certain donations and have certain rights. We have about 400,000 refugees who also do not pay contributions, and are also users of certain services. We have about 200,000 of our fellow citizens expelled from Kosovo and Metohija. So, for one million people who work in businesses, which, even under these difficult circumstances, we have about 3.4 million other citizens who don't actually create excess values. In order for one economy to function, in order for a society to have money to finance its own public sector, the relationship would have to be if not vice versa, then at least two people employed in a healthy economy who do not contribute and benefit from social services. It's a real situation that's very limited in defining public finances and that our entire public sector, all of those services that make up a modern state, at this stage makes it quite modest. It is a basic message this year -- that all budget users must be realistic and understand the reality of the economic situation in which we are all together. That's less good news for us to start this analysis with. A little better news is that despite this state of business and this very unfavourable structure of economic relations and extra-economic activity, we have succeeded in making one significant progress over the past year. A year ago, the average salary in our country was 80 marks, which is about $35. It is known that the poverty line in the world is defined as two dollars a day per adult, per employee, which means about $60 a month. Half of mankind lives in that area of poverty. We were in that half of humanity until October 5th last year, even in its lower part. Today, we can say that, with an average salary of 230 marks in Serbia, which is something over $100, we have definitely crossed over, one little bigger step, into that other half of humanity. We're still not in the part where we think we belong, and that's among the middle-developed countries. For this status are defined our social services, our health care, education, traffic, municipal systems are timely formatted and people experience them according to the standards of medium-developed societies. We are still quite far from the gross social product per capita who could meet those expectations, but, of course, we are not giving up on that. So we're happy to say that today, with $100 per capita, we no longer belong to that half of humanity considered poor or below the poverty line. Of course, citizens will immediately say that prices have also increased. That's true. But that's where we have to distinguish two elements. One element is the part where prices went up unwarranted. When I say unwarranted, then I mean objectively unwarranted reasons: the first is - low productivity in our businesses and in our producers. The price of this low productivity is transferred to the price of the final product then paid by customers. Then, the price of too many employees in our businesses is paid. There is also a monopoly position, because our market is not yet dynamic enough or open enough to have real competition; some producers are now using that position, so they have raised prices and more than economic reasons to do so. These are the problems we have to solve by restructuring our economy in all these three elements. So, first of all, by increasing labour productivity, secondly by reducing the number of employees to the level of economic justification and, of course, by establishing a normal market that works and which will allow real competition to occur for each product, which will keep the price at the level of an economically justified price. That's what's a big challenge for our society next year. Through the restructuring of our economy, we will come to the progress of that level of medium-developed countries, which we all want. On the other hand, however, we must also have understanding of the price liberalisation that occurred at the beginning of this year, which in May, above all, caused a slight blow to the population's standard. Namely, even producers who receive these more prices than they have been over the past 10 years are our fellow citizens. These producers, primarily food products, utility services and electricity, create a product that has its own economic price and whose economic price has not been recognised for the past ten years, and so much our society has spent its substance and its future daily, buying social peace unreally low prices of basic services and products. I don't think we should dream or regret these times when prices were unrealistically low, because the result was either that these products weren't in our stores or that the substance was being spent, that we were spending the principal, practically, our national economies. We haven't had any depreciation, and as a result, most of our infrastructure is in a catastrophic state. It's estimated that only because we haven't rehabilitated our travel network we've lost about two billion German marks a year. So, the costs that were later incurred for this road and traffic network to return to the same state were two billion marks higher because it was not maintained in time. It was the price of these administrative - controlled prices of our products. What I'm saying is that it doesn't justify this unreal increase that happened in price liberalisation, which we in the government estimate is about twenty percent, but that doesn't mean we need to regain administrative control. This means that the restructuring of our economy and the dynamicization of our market needs to gradually come to a real economic price. That's why we expect no price increases in the coming year, but on the contrary - to bring down certain prices. We expect a slight growth in real income and a real rise in population standards. However, despite the price release, which is the main problem of our population, it has occurred in the past year (but we can now say that it is over) to the realistically increased purchasing power of the population. Unfortunately, we still measure the purchasing power of the population toward so-called. consumer basket. Because food and basic products are still the main spending of a normal, average family in Serbia. However, if we look at, according to the average consumer basket, what was the standard of one average family, for example, in the same month this year and in October and November last year, we will see that there is a significant shift. It is not spectacular in the sense in which people would be satisfied with it, but it is far from negligible. For example, in October 2000, when the average salary was 2.925 dinars and the consumer basket 8.586 dinars, one average family (with two average incomes) could buy a single consumer basket for 2.9 average incomes. Since the majority of the families in Serbia have average four members and two active employees, this means that this family if it only works in the legal economy, i.e. if their income was recorded in statistics, it could not buy one consumer basket with average income because it required 2.9 average income, and the average family had two average incomes. In November 2001, meaning last month, the average wage per employee was 6,889 dinars, the average consumer basket of 12,067 dinars, which means that a family can pay the consumer basket with 1.75 salaries. From 2.9 a year ago, we came to 1.75. I repeat that it is quite tragic that in the 21st century we measure the standard of the population by a consumer basket. But I think it's even sadder that we needed more than two salaries for a single consumer basket -- that was a state from a year ago -- 2.9 salaries. We're at 1.75 today. This is one significant progress, and I think that the careful financial policy that we have led, the savings that has been practiced in the public sector, the discipline in the finances that led to the lack of money printing, the lack of giving in to the interests of stakeholders and target groups who rightly sought to increase their revenues from the budget (which the government managed to resist), led to a little more money being left to people who are getting paid and that one average family in Serbia today is in a much better position than it was a year ago. The growth of social product in 2001 was 5.5%, officially, we assume that somewhere between 6% and 7%, if we include the grey economy that in our country, if we look at construction, if we look at the economy, it still affects a 30% area. It's very hard to tell. But that means that something above 5.5 percent is the real growth of the social product. We are the only country in transition that in the first year of transition had the growth of social product. All other countries fell in the first two years, in the third year some countries, such as Hungary, Poland and Slovenia, recovered. Some other countries had a decline until the fourth or fifth year of transition and only after the fifth year had a slight growth. One of the reasons for that are agricultural offerings. However, as much as we can be satisfied with this success, because it is indeed from international organisations specialising in this topic as a major success, I think that we should be very realistic in that important part of society and economy -- there is no growth recorded in industry. It is estimated even that, depending on November, December, there will probably be a 1% drop in industrial production compared to the previous year. The reason is there was no subsidy for large systems and this is the first year of real economy. So the money was only given for production, just for export projects, some money was left in the funds that were for lending, because there weren't enough projects like that with the guarantee of banks. It means that the state and social, the big industry is in crisis. We all know that. We thought, as Government, that we had no right to give money to citizens, taxpayers, to pay salaries in non-productive enterprises and that led to a relative decline in industrial production. There remains a reserve here because one large part of the company is not registered with official statistics, which is small and medium-sized and private-owned enterprises. The impression is there's been a lot of success here. If we look at the consumption of certain goods, we have data that the construction industry recorded a drop of 18%, but if we have a record of a consummated repromation in that industry, then we see a huge difference compared to the previous years, which means there were some activities that weren't recorded. In any case, thanks to the great success in agriculture, we note the growth of the gross social product of 5.5, maybe 6% or 7%. It's realistic that next year we're going to have growth -- with this one being achieved now it's harder to achieve something more significant and next year -- our estimate is that this growth is going to be 4%. It's a very conservative assessment based on a very realistic one, I'd say pessimistic, assessment of investment, privatisation in our country. Let's let the development of events surprise us positively. For this year, we predicted a lower growth of gross social product at the beginning of the year, than it was, and we assume that maybe next year it will bring some positive effects that will lead to greater growth of the gross social product. This message is sent to budget users - that the growth of their income can be adequate growth of gross social product plus inflation. So, there is no pressure on the Serbian government by budget users to actually increase wages more than the productivity of our society's work is increasing. After 50 years of unrealistic economy, it's a bitter pill. But it's a healing pill. I am sure that our budget users, above all in health care, education, in those actions that have been with depressed personal incomes for many years, will understand that it is also in their interest to gradually bring out extra-economic activity in connection with the development of the economy. We can't accept another principle but this one and, despite the pressure and arguments that come from that side, we have to say at the beginning of next year, so that's what we have, that's what people can produce and that's what we can share. Now, from a general assessment of the economy's movement this year, I'm moving on to public finances. To all who have looked at this budget it is clear that there is no possibility of any increase on the side of the expenditure. The participation of real consumption in the gross social product with about 50% is definitely excessive. If we didn't have fixed social obligations and payments that were found and defined by law, we couldn't survive that percentage of public spending in the gross social product, because what we would consider acceptable or optimal would be 5% to 8% lower. So it would be realistic for a developing country to spread its economy, spread citizens' incomes, reduce contributions and make public spending in the gross social product 35 to 40%. We are 5% definitely above what our wish is. Each percent above that threatens the stability of budgets and public finances, and thus the stability of the country as a whole, and leads us to deficit financing, which would be bad for everyone -- and those who receive salaries from the budget and those who receive wages from the economy. If we take into account this harsh balance of income and expenditure, the question is what is the political philosophy of this budget, is it anything more than recording a reality that I have described to you. I think the philosophy of our budget is very clear, impressive. It consists of paying our commitments from the budgets that have been defined by law, paying them in time, from real sources, not paying them by printing money, hidden deficits, which existed in all the previous 50 years, by actually spending one money that was not actually earned at the expense of the infrastructure, at the expense of the healthcare provider, in the energy sector. So, it's all not happening this time, not this year or next. It's something that's revolutionary in our country's budget policy. For the first time, we've shown everything that's income, everything that's expenditure and everything that's deficit. The deficit will be three times higher this year than it was in 2001, because we estimate that we can withstand that deficit and that we will find out how to fund it. But there are no hidden items, no printing of money and hidden deficits. That's what the press is in this budget and in this budget approach. I think it's something that leads our country to a path of healing. This budget approach and this budget concept may be the most significant message from the reform government. It was the opposite of what was found. Each year there was inflation due to the printing of money, and thus there was a depreciation of budget commitments, there were delays in regulating budget commitments. I'd just like to say a few things about what we found, what's paid off in terms of lagging budget users' rights, which is not going to happen in 2001. For the material security of the family, 26 months' debt has been paid. That cost 12.5 million marks. The addition to care and assistance of another person has paid 32 months' debt. That cost six million marks. For home accommodation it was paid exactly 5.5 months, for foster families a 2.5 month delay was paid; bonds for children's and maternal allowances, which amounted to 17 million marks in 2001. It is a whole list of 15 social responsibilities that were the obligation of the budget, which were delayed, which in 2001 did not happen and in 2002 it will also not happen. Also, social contributions, which account for about 30% of the amount of this budget, are also a priority this year. Due to the reduction in salary contributions, pension contributions do not cover the full amount of pensions, so around 40% of pensions are actually paid out of the budget. That's unusual. We have defined ourselves for this solution, because we believe that pensions are acquired rights and that they have to be entitled to the agenda. That's why their funding is partly budgetary. If we talk about the main users of the budget, and these are primarily educational and health workers and their salaries, there are about 260,000; I think in 2001 they were defined as a priority and I don't think it was done so badly. I think they can, despite the generally bad financial situation, be satisfied. If we look at the share of the education salary in the total budget pay fund in 2000 it was 36%. So, at 36%, education took part in the salary fund. In 2001 it was 38%, and in 2002 it would be 41%. It's one of the above-average real salary increases. If I bring this into contact with the consumer basket already mentioned, we will see that in October 2000, a single consumer basket required 3.9 educational average salaries, and in October 2001, it means only a year later, 1.58 salaries. So that's how this relationship is halved. Twice as many educators had in October 2001 (compared to the price of their lives) as they had in October 2000. It's similar with health care professionals. In October 2000, it took 2.65 salaries for one consumer basket, and in October 2001, 1.52. We will continue to try to improve the state of health and educational workers standards in 2002, but I repeat, in line with the real expenditures of the gross social product and in line with the state of the economy. So it's a real cross-section of the state of that part of our society from which income is collected (that's production, that's making excess value) and that part of our society where these revenues go, and that's budget users. The finance minister will give you a detailed statement and you will see what kind of relationship between these budget users has been established. What we can talk about, if we're responsible people, today is how we're going to adjust that defined amount of income a little bit more in the part of the expenditure, not how we're going to increase it. Every increase is unrealistic. I ask you, when we think about the budget, to think only about reorganising part of the expenditure, and not about increasing expenditure and demanding that expenditure be increased, no matter how justified. The good news is that next year we are facing privatisation, which this year was not, that we are about to be restructured through privatisation and through other processes, that we are going to have a consolidation of the financial sector and the possibility of financing healthy production, consolidation of market-regulated institutions and, of course, we hope, further curbing the grey economy and slightly more revenue in the budget from that side. Since we have resolved the issue of old debts of our country, obstacles to investment in our country have been removed and, if we say, the process of restructuring businesses is the part that we need to prepare for our country, reprogramming foreign debts to abroad, and the write-off of one part of these debts allows serious foreign investments to enter those parts of our economy that can be profitable to operate. This next year could be a year of major economic activity. This year was the year of the introduction of order into public finances, the adoption of several basic laws that our country maintains in business standards in normally regulated countries. Next year could be a year of real economy, meaning business development. It's normal for people to have jobs where they produce and where they get salaries. Budgetary discipline is a condition for this accelerated economic development. The budget discipline test will be today and these days, when we vote on the budget. There are two conditions, and I would like to conclude: the first condition is that MPs accept the fact that expenditures cannot be increased, that MPs show responsibility for the ratio of expenditure and income in our society; the second condition is that budget users are realistic, that all those who receive salaries from the budget realize that they are not held against them by someone who has a hidden reserve of money, who can print money, but that they can only get as much money as they are realistically, through taxes and contributions, collected from our society. With these two conditions, we have a good chance of taking a second major step towards our country's definitive recovery next year. I am sure that this parliament will understand this message, that this budget will be accepted in a realistic way and I hope that we will also have your support in future negotiations with budgetary users on finding a solution, how to satisfy their interests in such a budget that has defined reality, much less a finance minister than the reality we have found in our country. That reality is difficult, but if you consider all that I've told you, it's not so bad. We are a country in healing, we are a country that is very close to becoming a country of normal business, normal life. One normal budget is the assumption of one such normal development. We offer you one such budget and I'm sure you'll have an understanding for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15996	I thank Mr. Djindjic. I ask the parliamentary groups that, unless they have done so, they shall immediately deliver the list of registered speakers. I give my word to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15997	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, I would only like to explain to you in a few sentences the structure of this budget that is before us today. Surely, if a travel writer came to Serbia today, filmed the situation coming from a richer country, he would describe a rather poor environment. Indeed, it is difficult to be satisfied with the current situation in Serbia, with a salary of 230 marks on average, with a third of the population that is poor, with great debt; and after the programme, our country has major problems and great temptations. It's certain that this painting wouldn't be particularly convenient, but that's our reality. However, if the writer had been here in January of this year, he had returned now, in December of this year, what he would have seen in the economic part -- several positive things, which would have shown that between the two images a positive start of one film. One, he would have found that stability was preserved, and for the first time in a long series of years -- we were able to have inflation that was very close to the one that was designed, 30-35% was a plan, and 40% would be achieved, much better than those 0% predicted in 2000 and 116% realized; then a stable course, a converted dinar -- every citizen of this country can change the stamps for dinars, and dinars for stamps, free and without restrictions, on every corner of our big and small cities. Two, we've established much more justice in our country, and maybe we're not aware of it yet, because it's simply very fresh. In this country, the fund of profitable enterprises (where salaries were significantly above the average of the Republic) has been frozen since January of the month, until today, despite major pressures. In this country, the salaries of the armed forces, including the IMUP, which were significantly above the management average, grew at a lower rate than other budget users. At the same time, thanks to the disbursement of the economy that took place in the middle of this year when we reduced the social contribution rates of about 10%, it was given priority to some budget users, as health and education, whose salaries grew faster this year than 15%, as the country's actual incomes increased on average. We have a picture of Serbia where relative salaries of various people who live and work in our country are distributed in a much fairer way than they were 10-11 months ago. Under three, you would see one country where they were voted, thanks to you, a number of system laws: the Privatisation Act, which was declared the best law in transition countries, by those who know what they're talking about, because they've been working with such laws and implementing privatisation for ten years now, the Labour Act, the laws on the pension system, which are now elected at the federal level, tax laws, our country has taken a major step towards what is called an advanced transition country. He would see the same regulated financial accounts, the gross budget, the reformed tax system, which leaves no discretion for any minister, for any government, to avoid the court of parliament in one way or another, and thus the public, if he wanted to change something in it. He would meet a country where the internal debts were regulated and where the account block went from 200 billion dinars to some 35 billion dinars, and they were much more organized debt-confidential relations; one country where investments in infrastructure finally started, which, despite everything, separated 3.5 billion dinars of EPS, thanks to today, and at the time of Nikoldan, produced a record amount of electricity in our country, in all history, and we had no gambling, or greater corruption; one country in which we started investment in roads, after ten years of stasis; one country that has again begun to repair hospitals, social institutions and schools; and finally, a country that finally managed to find a common language with the world in the economic part, which is now recognised to be a member of all financial institutions and in record time managed to regulate the most of our country's debt development. Of course, today's situation can't satisfy anyone who wants a good promotion, but it has to be acknowledged, if the objectivity of those who are watching, and I hope that this traveller would write like that today, the beginning of this story is extremely encouraging. What are our goals for next year -- of course, to continue this way. We have four key objectives, which I was talking about yesterday, and I'm not going to repeat them in detail. The first is to preserve this creation and finally gain stability. The first and great challenge for our country, for our people, for those who will negotiate wages, pensions, prices, will be to accept that we will no longer be drugged by the nation, a nation that is being drugged by inflation, as the late Governor Avramovic said, a nation that cannot bear the strength within itself to accept what is reality, what are available means, what can be given, what can be accepted, and which will no longer, like so many times in the last decades, print money and inevitably, in one medium time, have a fall in its real income compared to our neighbours, without talking about those most developed nations of Europe and the world. So that's the first and the biggest challenge -- to preserve stability and say -- when inflation is planned from 20%, then the pay increase is 24% equivalent, and about 120, 130% of the salary increase when the planned effective inflation is 100%. We must collectively enter that disintoxication from inflation, and I am very much hoping that we will all succeed collectively in that, because that break-in thing will happen, or not, in the year ahead. The second goal, of course, is to improve living standards. This morning, you contributed very much to this, voting for the elimination of taxes on food and medicine, the elimination of taxes on transport on utility, you left room for the poorest layers of our society to have more in the home budget for some other items. In addition, it is obvious that the further reduction of our financial transaction tax, which will be proposed to you in a few weeks, when the Budgetary System Act passes, will allow the interest that you have then launched through our economy to be significantly less. In addition, it is certain that our third goal, which is to structure with the privatisation of banks and businesses, must be a priority if we want to restore our business image and we have a large number of competitive businesses. Of course, the fourth and final objective of our economic policy next year must be further integration into international flows. Much has been done, but what is most important is yet to come, and this is that, on the one hand, fresh capital in large quantities is starting to arrive - it has already begun to arrive because the European Bank for Development, for example, has already located 220m euros and some 500 million German marks to our country. Belgrade knows that, "Tiger" knows that, Nis, Kragujevac and Novi Sad will know that very soon. That's what some other companies, who got micro-credits, 1,000 of them, through the bank's microfinance; that's a great start. Of course, the renewal of 360 million German marks is a great start and next year, when the exchange of German stamps for the euro comes, we have one great chance to continue, to return the money that is in the straws today to legal flows and to be able to be used again in a very controlled way for further economic growth. Further, stability, improvement of living standards, restructuring, privatisation of businesses and banks, finally further integration into international flows, these four key objectives. Public finances must be fully subordinated to these objectives. In that I can say, we have a surprisingly good starting position. When various international delegations came and asked what Serbia's budget deficit would be this year and when we told them it would be between 1.1 and 1.5 gross national income, they could not believe it. I can tell you that it wouldn't be a good idea to continue with this kind of stunt. We this year -- we, you, our people -- have managed to make a big turn literally with our own forces. This effort at this level is not necessary and therefore the projection of next year's budget provides for a significantly higher deficit, which we know we will cover and which will give us, at such limits, still enough room for action. For example, Croatia today has a budget deficit of 6.2% and it has made one mistake that we have to avoid at all costs next year, which is that salaries, especially budget users, pensions and social contributions, have grown much faster than their economy could handle. Of course, it always comes back as a frontal owner, as a boomerang, and today they're in a situation where they have to cut pensions and salaries and that's in real terms, and that's extremely difficult. We have to do everything next year so that our objective constraints are not exceeded, as far as budget users are concerned, first of all, but it also concerns businesses. Salaries, however low they are today, according to some criteria, have grown significantly and we expect that next year in the social and economic sectors they do not grow much more than the planned 25% to 30%. The second starting position allows us to move into a new balance of public finances. So if we had a budget deficit of about 1.5% this year, we could have a budget deficit of about 4.3% next year, because of two factors. The first factor is an increase in public income rates in gross national income of around 1.3%. It's not because of the increased tax, but because we've managed to narrow down the grey economy, curb smuggling, and no increase, even by reducing some rates, we've managed through this expanded base to collect more revenue. On the other hand, we have, and we must not hide it, a significant increase in the Republic of Serbia's budget in the participation of gross national income. It will go from 18.4%, as planned this year, to 24.1%. That 5.6% growth is not good news. It would be better, as the prime minister noted earlier, if our country had about 5% to 8% less public spending as a percentage of gross national income. That would be more appropriate to our level of development, a country that has $1,200 per capita American dollars and thus qualify. Unfortunately, it remains among the poorest countries in Europe. However, three and only three factors are hidden behind the 5.6% increase. The first factor is finally paying off old debts and that 15.6 billion dinars or 1.7% of gross national income is the first effort we haven't had this year and we're going to have next year. As the people would say -- we can't both ditches and money, if we want loans, if we want further involvement in financial flows, we have to start paying back our debts. The other element is retirement. Pensions have grown realistically, and this is good news for those thirds of pensioners living in great difficulty and even better news for those who have slightly more comfortable pensions. Also, with an increase in age, several tens of thousands of our fellow citizens retired or retired these days, and that is an additional burden. When you add some other rights to the PIO Fund, you have a situation that next year will be 127 billion dinars, which is a figure that will be greater than the current budget for all of Serbia (127 billion versus 122 billion dinars), and that is one large, national, I would say national effort towards that key class and the layer of our population. The third and last element is the restructuring of the economy and banks. It will participate with about 2.1% of our gross national income, and we need it if we want to separate economic and social functions in the company and to allow people who remain unemployed not only to be taken care of, not only to pay them compensation, such as the flag case, but also to get the opportunity to requalified, learn something new and to find a better future, at the same time with regard to the economy of those companies that courageously step into restructuring get funds through which they will be able to get new equipment and become competitive on the market through the new workforce. It's an extra effort. If you look at what's actually going on in our public finances here you see that what's called a transition cost is actually going to be covered by the increase in our deficit, and that deficit we know how we're going to finance. The $540m will be financed by $150m of privatisation and a decision due to take place on December 28th around the first three companies to be sold, these three cementers, will cover a significant part of what is scheduled. The second part is a budget donation from abroad and is projected to be $126m. We already know that half of this will be covered through European Union programmes. The third thing is loans from the World Bank, which are just designed for that purpose, to finance the costs of transition, very favourable loans for decades, with years of waiting and low interest. We already have a certain 190 million dollars. Finally, loans from the National Bank of Yugoslavia and from business banks that are at a minimum of $77m at 0.6% of gross national income. So, even smaller than it's going to be this year, and as we can see, it didn't have any bad effect on our balance, on our course or on inflation. Let me conclude on public finances before I mention a few items in our budget. So one budget whose participation is higher by 5.6% in gross national income, but which is covered through one budget deficit of 4.3%, which we know we will finance, and an increase in income rates that do not come from increased rates but from the suppression of smuggling and the grey economy. So, there is still one stability that will ensure that, as many of the citizens who write to us say, slowly but reliably regains confidence in the state. Because when a family who has children knows that they can count on a child's allowance, when a disabled person who has a right can count on disability, when a fighter can count on martial law, when a pensioner knows that pensions will come every 15 days, then slowly on real grounds, he returns what is and how important, and that is trust between citizens and the state. This will be maintained thanks to the preserved stability through public finances and next year. That's why this budget is planned with 12 pensions, with 12 salaries, with 12 children's allowances, with everything legally arranged these days. At the same time, we need to think about saving immediately, because our country should not have a 48.6% gross national income procedure. You get that number when you add the Republic budget, the Federation budget, funds budgets and local self-government and Vojvodina budgets. This is too much and our goal will be in the next three years to reduce about 5 to 8% of these expenditures in gross national income, so that a partial growth in gross national income will help, but we will also consolidate, and since the beginning of this year, some institutions overlapping between the republican and federal levels. There's no reason for our country to pay for two statistical institutions, two hydrometeorological institutions, a duplicate development office. (Let me just point out a few institutions that we need to connect. ) In addition, we must enter into the rationalisation and optimization of our public expenditures. That's not going to work, in any case, if you approach it in some violent way, blindly, saying -- we want to cut hospital costs by 20%, school 30%, police 40%. We need to find out, and we're already working on it with unions, a social agreement where all those who work in those institutions have an interest, which is called efficiency, but also material interest to reduce these costs. Part of these savings must go to them, to improve their material position. The social agreement will be one of the key things for the next few years. Finally, a few words on priorities in this budget and on several specific items. Priorities, if we look at our social classes or social classes in our society, remain the same as this year: above all, education, health and justice. As far as education is concerned, the prime minister has already noted, the participation of their payment fund in the total payment fund paid out of the budget by two years will be increased by 5%. We thus prove that what we promise and do. So it will be next year, we will control it with them, their participation in the payment fund, and the profits will be increased by 2%. In addition, thanks to your decision and vote this morning, we will form a fund of a dinar from the excise cigarettes that will allow 700 million dinars to be used to rebuild the infrastructure in hospitals. It's not much, of course, but it's real. Also, 300 million dinars for education is even less, but it's real and it's a good start. That money won't be for wages, it won't be for material expenses, it'll be for some necessary facilities, infrastructure and equipment. As for the judiciary, you will notice that for the first time in the history of Serbian finances, the judiciary and the prosecution are not in the justice ministry's division. In a symbolic way, we show that certain things are separate. In addition, as announced for the holders of judicial duties, judges and prosecutors, 3,400 of them, will make this budget and our entire nation a special effort to speed up their salaries to the average level of 1,000 German marks this year. It can't have an infectious effect, because it's just clear to everyone that we can't pay that kind of salary from the budget. For these key people, in those positions, because of the specificity of their position, that they should do nothing but judge and sue, I think it's very important and I think you'll all accept it to make a special effort towards them this year. That, I'm sure, will come back to us multiple times as an investment. Not only will we have less corruption and a better trial, but we will restore dignity to one key function in society, judges and prosecutors. I would like to mention a few points in this budget, and first of all I want to point out that what we started this year with a lot of success (recognized by all those I spoke to at the level of local self-government) we continue with fiscal decentralisation. The budget will be technically rebalanced when and if parliament adopts a law on local self-government. After the law, as much as 86% of local self-government revenues in cities will come from source revenues or tax where there are no restrictions. It's the essence of decentralisation. Of course, we're going to look for some incentive in what's being shared, but it's limited to local self-government -- if some local self-governments and cities work a lot to curb the gray economy and work on black to get some financial effects as well. In addition, if we look at Vojvodina, after the adoption of an omnibus law that will be in front of you in a few weeks and depending on the form adopted in this home, I mean at the same time for local self-government, that rebalancing will be done. We expect the AP Vojvodina to take over some 25-30 billion dinars in its budget, although the bill is preliminary. Of course, that transfer of jurisdiction will be balanced. No one will get more or less. Simply, in a balanced way, it will be transmitted. Finally, something that is a matter of agreement, which will take place this year: 50% of the privatisation revenue, from the sale of enterprises located on the territory of Vojvodina, will go to projects of infrastructure on the territory of Vojvodina. We will prove it and, of course, the entire amount will depend on how many companies will eventually be sold and how much that amount will be. At the end of the year, we will perform this calculation and prove that our firm promise to the Dukes and their Autonomous provinces will be made, that 50% of the funds will be used for infrastructure in the territory of Vojvodina. As far as the Agrarian budget is concerned, as the prime minister noted, the agrarian dragged the economy this year. With 28% growth this year, he withdrew the entire economy of this country. We expect more from this key sector of our economy. For him, as many as 8 billion dinars have been allocated, and realistically, the budget has been increased again. There are classic items, like milk premiums with 2.6 billion dinars. For the first time in years, all dairy workers admit that milk premiums come in time and are real. As a result, we have a significant improvement in this sector. For the first time, it is planned to encourage new vineyards with 60 million dinars and plums with 80 million dinars. Here's a traditional culture where our country was once uncircumcised. Through negligence, I'd say fusing, we've lost that position we've had for many years. So some now sell under the name "shade" something that's supposed to be theirs, and it was supposed to be ours. In addition, as regards the purchase of wheat, it is already promised that up to 300,000 tonnes of wheat will be bought at the price of 8 dinars. We will fulfill that promise, as we have fulfilled it this year. Finally, one key thing in our country, and that's water. The water industry will get a billion dinars, as many as four times as in the budget this year. That's not enough. It's a shift and we will succeed in several key facilities to improve the situation. Social contributions, and the prime minister talked a lot about it, and I'm not going back to it, with 18 billion dinars of children's supplements and other social rights, we're continuing with that real social policy we already have. Finally, the infrastructure. The EPS will receive 200m credit marks from the European Bank for Development, 100m from Germany's development and budget bank forecasts another nearly 4 billion dinars of subsidies for the restructuring of the EPS. That's already yielding results. If we don't have restrictions today, it's thanks to the great effort this summer. If we continue with this rhythm, the next winter will certainly be without restrictions and in two to three years we have confidence that we will take this key element of our economy to the green branch. It takes four years, but at a rate like this, we'll be able to do it very quickly. Finally, what will be visible with our citizens' naked eye, and that will be the roads and the whole network. Even 850 million German marks will be used for these purposes next year. Of course, not everything from the budget. The budget will be set aside what you voted for this morning, which is 6.5 billion dinars from the gas and diesel excise, 3.5 billion dinars from the toll, and the rest comes from the very favourable loans that we'll get. I'm sure it will improve not only the transport of our people in many ways, but also the transport of goods. So that Serbia becomes three to four, and ten years, an inevitable intersection of all roads and the entire transport of Europe. The last thing and the very good news for those who expected to end this government and this state justify their trust: we continue to repay not only foreign debts but also our domestic debts. We continue to return the old foreign exchange savings to an even larger volume of 550 German marks per savings, and that is news for many savings, for those who believed in that loan for Serbia's rebirth 12 years ago. Next year we start paying 1/4 of that loan. In four years, we'll have that $40 million back. Ten million dollars or about 720 million dinars are scheduled for next year. I would conclude by wanting to thank you for accepting both our apology and our process for this law to be before you by an urgent procedure. Believe me, there was no desire to shorten the possibility of a discussion. We've been waiting for some other provisions -- omnibus law, local self-government law, and hoping we can avoid technical rebalancing and have that budget voted once a year. When we saw that wasn't possible, we suggested this budget to you. I sincerely apologize to you as Parliament. I simply suggest that when you pass the bill on the budget system, it will not legally be possible. The next budgetary procedure will start on 13 April, and the legal government will be required to deliver a draft, or draft budget to you by 15 November. However, although he came a little late, this budget, for those who have been able to read it a little more detail, brings one novelty, which is an economic classification. I'd like to, maybe without a lot of inspiration to get it over with. In this budget you can look much more closely at what money is spent on, not just by the number of divisions, but by purpose, so you can ask for some more accurate information over the year. Today, I would assume on behalf of the government, the responsibility to deliver to Parliament by the end of January, by mid-February at the latest, this will not yet be a legitimate matter but a matter of the government's transparency towards parliament, even more precisely the budget accounts for next year. In the supplement you got, you saw the whole classification, the so-called GFS, with which this is shown. That's what the heads of parliament will get. You will have insight, much more precise, of what the state intends to do with the money of the people. In conclusion, today's picture isn't the one we'd all like to see. The movie that started was pretty good. Next year, within certain limits, it'll be even better.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15998	I give my word to the Minister of Economic Relations abroad, Mr Goran Pitic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u15999	Dear fellow MPs, in no more than ten minutes, I will try to specifically explain one position relating to the fill-up of the budget deficit, it is a donation position. Namely, the end of the year is also an opportunity for a position that will largely fill this budget deficit in the coming year, otherwise this year has significantly affected the issues in the part of the social programme and in the part of the development of the private sector, to give you some information that I think you should have in mind the budget for the following year, as well as the developments in this year. There was a lot of, I'd say, information in the environment and it was going through all sorts of numbers. What we know as official information is that we can expect in the next three years, about four billion dollars of donations, to be realised in co-operation with the World Bank and the European Union. More specifically, from today's point of view, it's about nine billion dollars. In June of this year, a billion and 300 million dollars or nearly three billion marks have been received and are expected in the next two years about similar amounts. What's been realized? Since the October changes, approximately two billion marks have been realised, from which last year, around 350 million marks were realised by January. So I'm talking about realisation, not contracts and asset allocations, but what's been spent. A billion and 250 million marks will be spent by the end of this year and the rest of some 450 million marks was received as aid to bridge that loan that remained as a debt to this government from previous governments, which relates to the European Investment Bank. This created a chance for this powerful institution to re-emerge in lending, especially infrastructure. When viewed by sectors this amount of a billion and 250 million marks, this year, these funds are spent on the following priorities: firstly, it is energy; 420 million marks have been spent on it; second priority was the social sector, around 280 million marks were spent on this sector; for agriculture, around 160 million marks were spent; for health care about 80 million marks; two other priorities were - firstly, the development of the private sector, which is particularly expected to be used in the next year through the privatisation process, development of small and medium-sized enterprises and the generation of new employment; and secondly, a significant item, of 270 million marks, is mainly given to local environments (citing initiatives for the development of civil society, for the restructuring of banking and in some segments relating to the rehabilitation of traffic infrastructure). A little more detailed on the two key sectors where the largest amount of funds has been spent. Energy -- about half the funds went to imports of electricity. The $80m gap, thanks to the EPS and donor co-operation, is expected not to be planned. The rest was about 100 million dollars or 200 million marks. Spare parts, equipment and technical assistance have been provided, so much is done. There is a detailed list of projects where serious reparations and maintenance have been done in the context of the electricity industry. When looking at the social sector, I would just like to suggest a few projects that have been implemented and that are allowed to help the most vulnerable layers of the population. For the material security of the family, funds were received, thus eliminating delays in payments in 26 months; about 400 marks per family and all lags were paid. When you look at children's supplements, around 300,000 families have been targeted, two long-term bonds are paid. Also, for 200,000 users, agricultural pensions have been paid and has been supported by the Fund of Employees, through a Swiss donation, around 190.000 users. Also, after the Brussels conference, since half this year, donations from the French government, Great Britain and Austria have been paid for double children's allowances, compensation for foreign care users and a new 14-month family material security. I will give you an example only of the European Union, as the Serbian government, working with donors, manages to impose its priorities and to fund what the country really needs. Of the European Union's 200m euros, which is about 400m marks, the largest part went into major energy systems repairs -- "Nikola Tesla" A and B and "Kostolac B", the Kolubara power plant. Drug delivery is expected at the end of the year and early next year, about 50 million marks for non-products in this country, and in the agricultural area about 40 million marks went for the purchase of MPK fertilizers, etc. If there were around a billion and 300 million marks this year, next year we expect about two billion donations, which will be made according to those priorities we have already agreed with donors, in a way that respects what is part of Serbia's reform plan. Under the budgetary effects, the finance minister has already said that around nine billion dinars will be provided through donations. It will mainly be through the European Union's macro-aid, as well as some smaller donations that will come from bilateral donors. Finally, I want to tell you that the donation report has been given to the heads of Parliament clubs, that you will receive a detailed report in terms of the list of projects, by countries, by sectors, that you will receive it in the most fundamental form, and that it is also in public, transparently on the website of the Ministry of Economic Relations with the abroad. I want to say, in the end, that so far, no complaints have reached the donor's flow of donations, nor has it been noted that donations have been used in a way that they have not reached the end-user, to the one they were intended to make. So, out of these approximately one billion and three hundred million marks, no donations so far, and they were serious presses, they were serious donors, none of these donations were under any doubt, complaint, or anything that could disrupt the further flow of donations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16000	I thank Mr. Pitic. Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? Does the MP who issued an opinion at the Committee's session want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16001	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, at the Committee's session, I took my view for several reasons. I said some yesterday when we were reviewing these two laws, or amendments to the Transport Tax Act and the Excise Act, because I realized that I was right about that. I also think about today's debate, we quickly went over it, we didn't extend the time for debate, it's a little forty minutes for our parliamentary group to make their views and arguments about this budget. Why are we making this budget so fast? I really, yesterday, tried to find the right explanation tonight. The real explanation is your political relationship, and you see, half-empty is the hall after the opening exposé. Disagreement with this process of budgeting is unimaginable, as the minister first proposed a law on the budgetary system and budget classification, so the law on the budgetary system was withdrawn, a new budget was proposed, so I don't think it can have more importance to have a law on the budgetary system for amending the Financial transaction Tax Act, but to the budget law itself for this year. Also, incompleteness and lack of certain accompanying decisions and laws are present; one source of income is reduced, which is a tax on financial transactions, and there is no change in the law. We heard that it would only be proposed in a few weeks; as last year, we had a law on the participation of municipalities in the amount of sales taxes, i.e. on the rates of intervention and the issuing of these funds for municipal budgets. Third, I would like to create an opportunity for my fellow MPs from the SPS Group to make as many arguments as possible about this budget and its non-acceptance. I have to say that the budget has been nominally increased by 90 billion and 147 million dinars, so about 70% and it totals about seven billion and 300 million marks. Getting budgets, what citizens and all taxpayers are supposed to pay, are about six billion marks, and they're up by 77%. This means that current revenues represent and have a higher growth of 7 percentage points compared to total budget growth funds. The planned revenues on the basis of the sales tax are 227% and are higher by 2.27 times, and they pay as much as our citizens. Also, this finding supports the fact that pensions are provided 60 per cent through contributions of 40% from budgets received through donations. This illustrates the fact that personal incomes of workers who receive earnings are falling rapidly. And I think after the Privatisation Act, it'll be even more pronounced. It is confirmed that the income of citizens increases 65%, i.e. 62 percentage points, compared to sales tax. We didn't get any data on the budget revenues achieved for the previous period this year, so that's incomparable, given that this year's sales tax is about 68 billion, and excise taxes have increased from 25 to 38 billion dinars. If we take this increase based on the rate, it means it's been taxed by about five billion dinars. As for the expense part, I have to say that classification is a good point. However, there are certain things in it that are not clear to me: a tax on taxes imposed by one level of government to another level of government, a fee for the transportation of employees. Well, we don't buy them vehicles. Indeed, if we agreed there was no such thing in nature, it was not in nature. In my understanding, the financial transaction tax is really neglected for that part of which was introduced through contributions to financial transactions to eliminate earthquakes in the Colubary County. Last year was a billion, last year a billion and 200 million, this year only 867 million. It's up to us to ask that these funds be as large as possible. Because, really, as Mr. Schumarac said, if we build a hundred houses every year, there are 4,000 more houses left. So, for the next 40 years, the consequences of this disaster should be eliminated. A contribution of Serbia's solidarity with the Kolubar district has been seduced, and at this point it turns out to be a contribution of the Kolubar district's solidarity with Serbia, as only 20% of these funds are being received by the Kolubar County. Finally, I can say that it is good that all those capital investments made in the past and in this period are also accepted in this budget and defined funds to be completed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16002	Do the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic, representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16003	This is a unique opportunity for the government to honor the congregation with its presence. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it was already said and accepted yesterday as a justifiable rebuke that the humiliation of the National Assembly by the Government was to give her a one-day review of the 2002 draft budget and to expect a debate from the National Assembly in which MPs were reasoned to support or dispute the draft budget. If that was what the government wanted and really wanted to discuss the budget, it would have addressed the National Assembly in early December with the draft budget law, so we would have time to hear the report from the committees in charge, at least what next year looks like to us. And it looks like a year in which the unfulfilled promises of the government of the Republic of Serbia continue. To remind the Prime Minister, speaking to us last year, he promised us everything and everything. Yes, it was in revolutionary enthusiasm, but it still had to be measured every word, because not only in the 21st century, but in the 20th century and 19th centuries it was written what was said and remained as a permanent witness. To remind the Prime Minister that as our primary task, before or at the same time moving into serious reforms with them, he promised to solve the most serious crimes. He said it's not a question, it's not a week, it's days when we're going to find out and have the enlightened murder of Stanko Curuvija, the murder of the Ibaric Masteral, the kidnapping of Ivan Stambolic... (President: Mr. Nikolic, please return to the agenda topic. )......................................................................................................... There are murders that apparently had a political background and (quote the Prime Minister) "All the predecessors before me talked about what we had experienced in these years." Why do you deny me the right to talk about what we've done in these years? You can't talk about the draft budget without looking back at the situation the country has been through. I remind you, Mrs Micic, that you are the President of the National Assembly and that I am equal to you, and that here the Government is in a subordinate position and that, if you are already allowing the Prime Minister and the Ministers to speak of everything they think is necessary to explain the draft budget, let me also talk about everything I think is necessary to say why I am against the budget. If I use an ugly word, if I insult someone, warn me and do not warn me when you have no right to do so. There was one who thus usurped the right of the National Assembly president and is no longer the president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16004	Mr. Nikolic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16005	You let me speak as I please, and you look there in that watch. It's your only job while I'm at the pay phone. Furthermore, you promised us, Mr. President, that you would set up a parliamentary commission to investigate the involvement of state services in serious crimes, and your majority just a few days ago refused to form a survey board, which would determine whether or not there was a smuggling of tobacco and who was dealing with it. Your majority in the Assembly is not responding to our request to form a polling committee that will determine what is going on with the Jugoscan company, who robbed, how much money, how much money, which is already public knowledge that money was now being given to many who are now in power, and then they were in opposition. I must admit that you have done one piece of work to the satisfaction of your employers, which is a promise that those who have defiled, to God, the face of our country, the nation, will hand over to the courts -- individual citizens of Serbia and individual Serbs who are not our citizens, by their regulation, which is certainly the subject of the Federal Constitutional Court's questioning, because they have suspended the Republic Constitutional Court (this is the greatest success of last year) you handed over to The Hague tribunal. You promised us a uncompromising fight against organized crime, first of all in the domain: kidnapping, racketeering, drug trafficking, car theft, oil trade and cigarettes. You have promised us a package of laws that will be in front of parliament and will be dedicated precisely to different, in our parliamentary life so far unknown, the kind of government control and state service. Unfortunately, for us here, these are still unknown sights of government control of government services. We didn't get that package in the National Assembly. You promised us a leave of privilege, said there would be no membership on boards, that there would be no receiving expensive gifts. You promised at the first session to abolish parts of the law on the privileges of officials, and in fact, you only suspended the security of the MUP for the former president of Serbia so that one night, unfortunately, the night that was dictated by the US on March 31st, you could arrest, and then the second night, which will forever be remembered in the Serbian people as the night of the defilement of the Holy Vid, you would extradite to The Hague. Furthermore, it's interesting what you said today about employees; about those who are on the budget, and those who are employed in firms that are not doing well. The data is frantic, if we compare it to the data you made last year. You said last year that about 820,000 are unemployed and that about 500,000 are working in companies that are extremely inequitable. But now you've told us that about 300,000 people have been working in companies that are extremely indivisible, I've listened well to the president, so 200 thousand people have already lost their jobs in Serbia since you've been in power. Furthermore, last year you told us that 400,000 employees are on the budget, now you're saying it's 500 grand. You promised last year a 20% downsizing in the state administration, and it turns out we've increased 25% of the number of employees in the state administration and those who support themselves from the budget. Please reconsider your service. I wouldn't want to accuse you of something that isn't true, which is possible if someone wrote to you. I'm just comparing numbers. I don't use other stories. You promised us that at the end of 2001, an average family of its profits would be able to buy at least an entire consumer basket. Now you've told us... (Milyssav, I'd ask you to shut up a little bit, to see how nice it would be if you kept your mouth shut. You'd be smarter, and you're as pretty as a doll. ) You promised us a new Law on Local Self-Government, you promised us true autonomy of Vojvodina, and all that for the past year. Of course, I support that you don't let Vojvodina do what Chanak imagined, but I don't support that Chanka being cut off once and for all, that you don't have the strength, but that Chanak and the Canholics are developing to an unprecedented height. Propose a law on the return of the seized property. We would not support that law here, but I remind you of the promises you made to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You said you'd execute the financial deblockation of the economy by turning debts into co-ownership, reprogramming or compensating. They're out of business in bankruptcy. What kind of reprogramming, what kind of compensation? You promised us new directors in social enterprises because so far, the socialists, without any financial responsibility, have dictatorial possessions of other people's property. That's not gonna happen, because you haven't thought about it. As an explanation for the abolition of the Ministry of Information, you said there is no censorship in democratic Serbia. That was a big lie. In democratic Serbia, the Serbian Radical Party is censored on all media that are supported by the budget or the Republic of Serbia, or from local budgets at the level of local self-government, not to mention Vojvodina. You promised, in six months' time, to establish the Ministry of Natural Resources Management and environmental protection. If you'd done that, you wouldn't have done the shooting of a bird by Veselinov, so there was the biggest scandal in Europe. I don't see that the government has launched any kind of investigation into its ranks, who embarrassed Serbia and destroyed poor little birds in all of Vojvodina. I saw that Minister Vesenov was under gas today. That's why he left the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16006	Mr. Nikolic, on the basis of article 103, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16007	I accept all this as your ignorance of democracy, dear Mrs. Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16008	Mr. Nikolic, I warn you that these are not parliamentary questions...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16009	And when did you make it possible for MPs to ask questions, dear Mrs. Micic?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16010	You can do it in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16011	I will not use time because I expect the president of the parliamentary group, Dr Vojislav Seselj, to take advantage of the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16012	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The word comes from MP Dragan Tomic, a representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16013	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, we should have an economic policy in front of us for 2002. Of course we heard some arguments. When someone does something, they do something good. However, I have to say what we think about last year, what we think about the draft budget for this year and what the Socialist Party's position on this issue is. Please calm the MPs. I have not heard a single word, although I have listened very carefully (almost 60 minutes) to explain the budget, that someone has mentioned industrial production, growth in industrial production, the opening of new capacities, the employment of young people. There's one item in the budget, called labour retraining, so it's not opening new jobs. This is probably about closing jobs and trying to get some of what's going to be closed requalified and employed. So throughout the hour of economic policy interpretation for next year, the term "industrial production" is not mentioned. Speaking of industrial production, Minister Djelic said that from selling cement, he would be covered by the budget deficit. So, it is not said, although we listened carefully to Minister Vlahovic when he explained the Privatisation Bill's proposal, that the first funds would be used as craftsmanship for the promotion of development in industrial production, that they would serve as the basis for opening new capacities, that most of the funds would be located in which the headquarters of those companies whose privatisation was completed and of which the state of Serbia picked up a dollar, or mark. So I ask, on behalf of the SPS and on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, for answers to these most important questions. These are economic policy issues for 2002. When we compare the objectives of economic policy in 2002, which was spoken of by Minister Djelic, which is -- preserving stability, inflation of only 20%, how can we even write it and talk about it, when we haven't said anything about industrial production, about the growth of industrial production, and how we're going to ensure the growth of the personal income that we're talking about here, and it's being mentioned somewhere between 4 and 19%. Of course, the next item aimed at economic policy is to improve living standards. Of course, improving living standards can only come if these previous goals are met. So we can't figure out how to improve the standard of living by quasimmers, and these are the measures that were explained here. So we're not gonna have a moderate salary growth. And today, during the afternoon debate, I said several times that the gross salary does not reflect the salary, the net salary, the net income of an employee. It's still not 200 marks, it's much lower than that, although it's 200 marks, for 200 marks you can't buy what you could buy last year for 200 marks. You can't even buy 10 marks of what you could buy earlier. What will bring us the restructuring of businesses and banks - when we talked about banks, today I read the information that in Croatia we do not have a single national bank in these days. Our forecasts are that by the end of 2002 the same or similar situation will occur in Serbia -- we will not have any national bank, no bank that will protect the national economy, industry and development, credit domestic production, which will boost exports. There is no incentive to export from the domestic economy, and at this point Serbia's industrial deficits are extremely high. If I just mention that in this year's exchange with Slovenia, which amounted to 200 million marks, we had a payment deficit of 167 million, so Serbia was exported 37 million goods. If we were to look at the structure of this product, then we could easily conclude that it's a major part of the tambourine half-product, a semi-factory, and it's a bit of a finished product. So, the story from the former Yugoslavia continues -- the same state, same target, same distance. And then, they come to us so-called. high-quality goods; Belgrade's centre is full of shops, and shops and opportunities to buy these goods. So, import lobbies in Serbia significantly strengthened. If there is a total exchange in this year, if we had a stagnation of industrial production, an increase in imports, and this is a significant increase in imports to Serbia, losses in the Serbian economy which are bigger and more significant, I simply wonder - what way will we grow in the budget, for about 100 billion, to cover from the real revenues of the state. What will be the real income? And, please, don't just mention donations. I would prefer to mention the growth of the social product, the growth of industrial production of 5% or 6%, but that this is a real growth in production, from which we will cover and have revenues as a state of Serbia, rather than to cover permanent donations or other deficits, or loans. I'm curious, on behalf of the SPS, because these days we've talked about whether this government intends to protect the domestic banking system, to preserve some domestic bank, which will be the basis for the development of the Serbian economy and which Serbian economy will be able to rely on? So it's to be a home support. Is there any intention to preserve any bank in Serbia? Since the trend is such, I simply can't understand it, and I think it would be good, and if there is a right in the Constitution to set up the National Bank of Serbia, to have someone smart come up with the establishment of the National Bank of Serbia, because it seems we won't be able to save the Serbian economy differently at this point. What took a picture this year -- this year was a picture of great instability, fierce attacks on the SPS, a story about her being a criminal organization. Although we have been in time for more than a year we are not in power to realize that corruption in society is still at a high level, that the flows of smuggling in this country have been strengthened, and there are still, that root and rapid changes have not been made on this plan,.... Former Serbian state president Slobodan Milosevic has been extradited to The Hague in an unconstitutional manner. Many people in the SPS are on all kinds of quasi-indictees, there are various repressions against people in the SPS, and all with reasons to justify some future policy or preserve the trend of growth. Watch out for this governmental responsibility and seriousness, towards preserving the Serbian economy, towards preserving the Serbian banking system, towards preserving the interests of the national interest of the Serbian people, towards preserving the dignity of the Serbian people, and of course, most of all requires this government to fight crime, to make any way possible accounts for this people, and if it can't, we ask that extraordinary elections be discussed and that the next election declares the people for whom it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16014	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? ( He doesn't want to. ) If not, the word has the People's MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16015	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, is my first great honor to be able, after so many months of the work of this assembly and us in the Assembly, to see that the government is almost in full composition here, and if it is fortunate that the budget and budget rebalancing are more frequent on the agenda, we would probably see government representatives more often. On behalf of the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party, I must first express great dissatisfaction, and I believe that this is an insult to our MPs in this assembly, which is the material, namely the proposal for a bill on the December 19th budget of the Republic of Serbia, to the greatest Serbian glory of St Nicholas, which, by the way, is also the glory of the Serbian Unity Party. For this reason, MPs of the Serbian Unity Party were unable to participate in the work of this parliament yesterday and we apologize not only to fellow Members, but also to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When I say that it is an insult to the MPs, I believe that if we are already chosen here by the people to convey the people's mood, the people's objections, etc. on this law, it was normal for us to have at least four, five days to consider the draft budget law; no matter how smart I think it is for 24 hours it is impossible to look at budget items, compare them with the 2001 budget and give certain, most well-intentioned proposals, suggestions that the budget would be better and that the life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia would be better in 2002. Let it go as an observation to the government, that there will be no such approach in the future, because I think it was better if we had a few days of opportunity to look at it, not to work on Catholic Christmas, as it is heard that there will be no work on 24th and 25th, and that we will use the great Serbian glory of St Nicholas for the budget. By the way, by listening to the introductions of Mr. Prime Minister and several ministers, believe me, ladies and gentlemen, that I had asked myself, and finally I had to call my house, make a joke, and ask if I was still living with my family in Serbia, because we live so much better in 2001 than in 2000, that I was just astounded. I think that the Ministers headed by the Prime Minister should move our cities, our villages, our streets, to contact the citizens of Serbia a little, and see how much better they live in 2001 than they did in 2000. Some may live better, and there may be some who live better, but a large population, a large number of citizens live worse. I can't talk about all the positions in the draft budget, because the Committee on Economic Relations and Finance of the Party of Serbian Unity had no time, precisely because of the fame, that as a professional body, I will make certain remarks, so as far as I can as an MP, I will make certain remarks and suggestions on the budget, and they are composed of the following: In the case of agriculture, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture's portfolio, we see that for the first time in years there is no agrarian budget. It's all different by some points, but there's no name of agrarian budget. There is no proposal, when we are already talking about the part of the budget relating to the agricultural portfolio, that a item in the budget is foreseen that sugar beet will finally be paid to farmers who handed the product over in 1997, 1998 and 1999, and until today they have no sugar, no money, and I see that the budget provides for a period of premium for sugar beet producers, milk premiums, etc. I think it should go into the 2002 budget. Also, the position of the Serbian Unity Party is well known that we have always advocated better birth in the country, because our village is dead, and in the village there is no one left to produce, households are nursing etc. and that is why we believe that through the Ministry of Social Affairs, an item should be found and funds should be provided in any way, whether from donations or out of real income, that all mothers who give birth to children living in the country and agricultural production are provided with a basic interest, as well as children's allowances to all the working mothers. Thirdly, looking at the amount of resources identified to help refugees and displaced persons located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and sharing with the assessment that there are about 600,000 refugees and displaced persons in Serbia, we come up with a figure to provide assistance for those persons of only 2,000 dinars this year. If we divide it by 365 days of distinguished ladies and gentlemen, you'll come up with the number of dinars a day on your own. Can these people provide enough resources for themselves and their family, if we have constant stories that besides this number of unemployed in Serbia, because of the privatisation and other changes that will take place in 2002, there will be more unemployed people. I think we'll find ourselves able to have a much larger number of people in a state of social need than it is today. Something we didn't have in the budget last year, and today we have a lot in the proposal, is a large number of agencies, a variety of agencies, against which I personally have nothing, but I think a large part of the budget is foreseen for the work of those agencies. I personally think, and the SSJ Parliament Club thinks that these agencies should provide funds for their work in a different way and make the budget a minimum resource for their work. Finally, when it comes to funds defined for the work of the district, as I come from Pomorava County, I see that the draft budget for 2002 provides for total funds, which is 7,063,000 Pomorava County to receive 1,938,000, and that the revenue earned from the original activities provides 5,125,000 dinars. If we compare that to other districts that are in a far better position, far more developed, they have a far higher pay average, I think this is a pretty big item for the Pomorava County that it has to provide funds in its own way, and it gets very little from the budget. You see some other districts, like, say, Rasinski, which I personally think is in a better economic position than the Pomorava County. At the end of all this, I can say that, for the reasons I have stated, the MPs of the Soviet Union cannot support the draft budget law for 2002 and will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16016	I give my word to the president of the DOS parliamentary group -- the Democratic Party of Serbia, Mr. Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16017	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, budgeting is certainly one of the most serious issues that the government and the Assembly are dealing with, and it requires special attention. First of all, it is necessary to analyse the situation in which the state is located, the needs of the state and to make a budget, to make it fit with what the state has, so that everyone is satisfied with the extent possible. Analyzing for this short time, as far as we are left in front of the budget session, the situation in which the state is located and what is foreseen by the budget, we have come to the conclusion that, at a time when in Serbia, regardless of all attempts, there is a decline in industrial production, when the growth of the social gross product is said to be due only to the successful agricultural year, i.e. the successful season, primarily thanks to favourable weather conditions and what may not have been much in the power of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have come to record the growth of the gross social product, which is good and which is certainly something that will define us to decide and discuss when this budget is adopted. If we have a growth in the 2002 budget of 90% compared to 2001, and if we predict the growth of the gross social product by 4% and the nominal rise in prices by 20%, we can conclude that the budget is significantly higher than the increase recorded in these other areas. Of course, if there is a public consumption of about 51% of the gross social product, some standards in the world are about 38 to 40%, we see that the impact of the economy is much higher than in some other countries. That's what in any case in this situation burdens a state that needs to settle all obligations. Of course, if there's a huge rise in the budget, 90% compared to last year's budget, and we see that the economy won't record that growth, we come into a situation to see how that budget deficit that, whether we want it or not, is going to have to happen in this situation, just shut down, how it's going to fill the budget. We have a 15% deficit, and it's also unstandard for world opportunities and European opportunities at the moment. It is that there is some trend in the budget deficit, but far less than a few percent, and we predict 15% of the budget deficit next year. It is interesting that the budget deficit is expected to be closed. There are more ways and more models. One of them is, above all, privatisation, i.e. the funds collected from the privatisation process, will serve to close the budget deficit. We believe that the privatisation process, which has, however, started slightly slowly, and which will obviously continue more effectively in the coming year, will be the one that fills the budget deficit. We can conclude that it's not a good property that's been built in this country for generations, whose good share is nationalised and then improved, to spend once in the budget for one year. We think that this may not be the right way to fill the budget deficit, but rather to channel the funds from privatisation into investment and thus spend. We think that would be much more useful. The other thing is donations. Donations are highly optimistic in this budget. We know how donations went this year, although it is said that next year will be better, we see that they are below the expectations with which we entered the 2001 budget. Today, we have only one piece of information that the United States, or Congress, of the United States, has said it will provide about $115m in assistance to Serbia, but in return for co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Making the budget deficit, i.e. the social needs financed in this case from the budget, which the state cannot finance and which it finance through donations, create a country dependent on these donations, i.e. buying social peace, based on donations. If your social peace is dependent on donations, you are in a position to be politically dependent on the will of the donor. It's the result of a system that's being established at this point, and it's not good. Simply, political dependence on donations puts us in a position that donors can dictate certain political decisions in the state. Whether it's at this point in co-operation with The Hague tribunal, tomorrow will be the delivery of a werewolf troika, the delivery of some other officers to the MUP or someone else. It's something that may be just one segment of this way of buying social peace, but in any case, it's something that we have to pay particular attention to and try not to put the state in a position to buy social peace through donations, to then be politically dependent because of these donations, or to lose that political independence that we have fought for and that we need to create at this point in our country. The third type of coverage of the budget deficit is the loans provided for in this budget. First, it is a loan from the World Bank that is said to be obtained under very favourable conditions and would be used to cover the budget deficit. The second is borrowing from the National Bank of Yugoslavia or other business banks. Taking credit for covering the budget deficit is something we can do, but we don't think it's good. On the one hand, this budget is about 15 billion planned to repay the loan, or interest on the loans we took. On the other hand, we're doing a new job covering the budget deficit. Obviously, there is a very high need in Serbia, that production in Serbia is not able to fully finance all the needs that the state has imposed on itself and must resort to means that can be difficult to burden the next generations. That's what you should think about and not so easy to accept. I have to say, it's planned to take a loan of about 600 million marks to cover the budget deficit, which is an extremely large figure, especially if we go into one period of transition when one debt is written off, and the other debt is made. That's where we should make sure we don't over-negotiate so that later our budgets don't get worse and worse. As for the spending party, the Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted several amendments. What's very important for us here to point out is that the Agricultural Ministry did not show the Agrarian budget as it was shown earlier years ago, because we went one new way of making a budget. The essential provisions contained in the Agrarian budget exist in this budget, just one other thing to look at. The participation of the Agricultural Budget in the 2002 budget is about 0.40% less than last year. This year, the Agrarian budget took part in the budget with 3.96%, and next year it participates with 3.54% in the budget. We think, at a time when agriculture is our only contribution to the growth of gross social product in Serbia, we need to invest more in agriculture. In particular, new concepts of agriculture should be pursued, and these are mini-farms and individual producers. It is necessary to invest in the area and help develop the village, especially as Serbia must be a highly developed agricultural country -- to reorient itself to small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why we believe that subsidies in agriculture must increase changes, because agriculture is the one that can write us off or give us the most of the gross social product that can serve to reconcile all social benefits. We saw that the gross social product only jumped because it was a good agricultural year. So we should invest in agriculture, because we see the possibility of a budget being filled, maybe easier and better than through excise or other things. We have a situation that we need to increase the funds provided for refugees and that there are some arrangements that will surely be made, perhaps even dedicated to solving refugee housing problems. What we got in our eye is that we have a big budget reserve. In the conversation we heard that she would be used for the ransom of wheat. We would like that to be different from the budget decision itself, so that we do not come into the situation that about 2.5% of the budget is foreseen for the budget reserve. That's about 4.5 billion dinars. We think that, if it's left without a clear explanation, it's a big number. We would also like to insert provisions on regular financial reports, i.e. revenues and budget expenditures, so that we can discuss the budget itself more easily. If we had received such a report in front of this budget and had had the final budget account for 2000, if we had received a report on revenue and expenditures for this year, we could have been much easier to participate in this debate, regardless of what the draft budget law has been given only two days before this session. Approximately, these are the basic remarks and fundamental observations the DSS had on this budget and the Democratic Party of Serbia will vote in favour of the draft budget in principle, while our decision to vote on the budget in general will be tied to, after we have proposed a number of amendments, a debate and a vote on amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16018	Thank you. There is a word from MP Dragan Marsican, followed by Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16019	Your Honor, Madam President, honourable Members of the People, I will certainly not speak much of what the Prime Minister was saying today. I think we will have the opportunity to analyse in particular, as does the government's commitment, a comprehensive report on the government's work, that we will have the opportunity to get to know that report and I assume that by mid-January it will be delivered to the National Assembly. I'd like to say at this point briefly, that the way we accept to discuss the budget, when we bring it, is one big slap to the National Assembly, the biggest we've ever received. We've had more, but this is the harshest demeaning of the National Assembly. I think Mr. Djelic himself, who is of course the most responsible from the portfolio from which this proposal comes, will agree with me to, for example. in France, a minister who would, one day before opening a budget debate, submit a proposal to the Assembly for such a law, would certainly not be the minister who would explain the law to parliament. Surely in these countries that are building and establishing a relationship between the executive and the legislative authorities, in these cases, in the case of large political gaffs and incidents, (because this is nothing more than a scandalous behaviour when it comes to the Law on Budgets and the National Assembly, and the government's attitude towards the Assembly) in order to bear appropriate political sanctions according to the size of the gaffe. It's normal in the world, and that's what we need to follow. It is not good to use the rules and experiences of developed countries only in those areas where it suits us, to avoid the very experiences that we use when it comes to institution building, and I think it's something that we do ourselves great harm. Of course, one day, we will also agree (if we are responsible for the function of the MP, and we must be responsible, at least as much as we are paid to be responsible, and for God's sakes, we are not so little paid) one day is insufficient for even letharical, the way MPs to get to know the proposal of such a serious law, especially, which they themselves are not, of course, able to understand it by nature and interpret it. Of course, MPs' groups must hire teams of experts to analyse the bill's proposal and write down MPs to speak of it in the National Assembly, and therefore take a final stand. Well, that's how it is. We'll pass the budget law. We're right where we are, but we really need to learn from this. However, if I am hard on others, I must say that I will be hard on both Mr. Michael and myself. I don't agree with Mr. Michael. I don't think he could seriously consider this law for a day. He made one attempt. He's probably made a lot of mistakes around here. I suppose Mr. Djelic will easily disprove all his arguments and claims. But we'll see in the course of the debate. So I analyzed myself and my behavior. I question myself daily, and I have found, extremely seriously, that during the previous period, I have made some mistakes that are inadmissible to the MP. In fact, I've allowed myself to question the reform government, not to put my trust in their proposals in advance. Oh, don't trust the reform government, it's reformal because it calls itself that, well, who better than her to know if it is or isn't, so I've expressed no confidence in reforms at all. And for ten years, I've had a clear political activity in that direction, and I've brought myself, questioning my political action, into the situation of confusing myself and realizing that I'm being completely vague. So I've allowed myself one huge mistake to doubt, as a national envoy to executive power. Today I will try to correct that mistake. I'm going to be reformist all day. I voted in favour of two proposals from the Government of the Republic of Serbia today, and I will tell you that I will also vote on the draft budget law in principle for not having read it; and in general for, although I haven't read it; and for all amendments that the Government of Serbia accepts, although I haven't read them, because I want to put myself in a position to find myself on what is said - the reform course. So, with the trail of the reform course, if I were to open the draft budget law tabled by the Republic government, I would express my doubts in advance. Because why would I open something if I believe it's the best possible proposal and there's no better one than that. So, I don't want to doubt the reform government, and that's why I didn't open that proposal, and that's why I'm going to accept it. For we must not let the devil within us, the messengers of the people, work; for when ye reveal the door of doubt, then there is no end. Then you might think that there are better suggestions, that you're delivering this proposal to a team of experts, then these team of experts at the facility that maybe there's something better in that bill, and then it's proposing amendments. Then you enter an additional expression of mistrust with the motionor. I really want this opportunity at the budget law, which is the most important act of the National Assembly that it brings, to confirm my reform commitment and to remain consistent that I will not read the bill, but that I will support it in everything. When I look at it like that, even that first remark I said was unquestionable doesn't seem so serious. In fact, this late delivery and what I was saying about demeaning the congregation, etc., does not have to stand. In fact, I see that this was one additional contribution from the government of the Republic of Serbia to the development of reform processes. Namely, when you submit the draft budget law 24 hours before the debate opens, you are putting those hesitant MPs in a position to deny them a minimum of time in which this hesitant can be turned into a doubt, and doubting the reading of the bill. That is, regardless of what Mr. Mihajlov pointed out (Mr. Djelic or Mr. Prime Minister, I can't remember, I apologize) that the scope of public spending in gross national income is 50-51% here by 5% higher than desired and that this is already the line where the question of how the whole thing will work. So, if I had read that proposal, I'd have consulted the experts, I could point out a series of remarks and express my doubts whether it had to be so, whether it might have been possible to go to a smaller budget deficit, whether the budget deficit of 39 billion dinars was the right measure, whether the revenues from the republican sources were realistically estimated. Surely I would disagree with Mr. Michael's return on donations is realistically assessed and perhaps even underestimated. Maybe they're even underrated. On the other hand, they're overrated. Besides, it will show a report the ministry will file. Indemnity at the National Bank, Mr Djelic said, did not affect inflation this year. This year, however, inflation is higher by 10 than planned. Maybe that's one of the reasons why inflation went too far. But in any case, it is doubtless a national bank debt is an incentive for inflation, and that price growth is always followed by an increase and the possibility of increasing monetary mass in circulation, so it is doubtless that it must affect inflation. Whether she'll stay within the limits planned, that's different, but she can't help it. That's what's safe. Also, if I had read and been prepared, and I did not, to express my doubts about the proposal, the question of the agreement of this draft budget law with the Privatisation Act could be raised. Because the Privatisation Act says that privatisation costs will be financed on the burden of companies, or customers, and here is an extremely high item for planned agencies. I think it's in the budget, and if it were legal, we could discuss it later. The Privatisation Act states that privatisation costs are carried out on the company's burden. So that would be perhaps more doubt than Mr. Michael has pointed out. But I guess it's that hard wing in the DSS, and I'm soft and I'll support this law by supporting Serbia's reform government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16020	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16021	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, listening to the presentation of Prime Minister and Mr Djelic, in their statements that about 30% of the population is on the verge of poverty, I wonder and I think when this expenditure side of the budget is looked at, that it is not in the same country, as if this spending party was made in some countries where prosperity is rich. For example, the budget plans the cost of business trips to a billion and 135 million dinars. I'm just wondering how many Serbs will be delivered to The Hague with that money. Furthermore, the bank restructuring fund of four billion and 50 million dinars will be paid, and Mr Dinkic will close. Current transfers to southern Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, Mr. Covic, amounting to 964 million dinars, and to all other cities and municipalities in the Republic of Serbia 919. I don't even know how that 500 million was spent. Buildings and construction facilities are probably the means that will be determined for the apartments of your officials and suffer the estimated amount of three billion 267 million, and machines and equipment of two billion 208 million for the purchase of foreign cars, probably for those same your officials.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16022	The word has Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16023	Just a few elements. First of all, as far as the way this budget goes. I was honest with you in my apology. There's more reason for this budget to be made this late. The first is what we expected, the law on local self-government and the omnibus law on the powers of Vojvodina, and then let's prepare a budget that will be the budget for next year and that will not require rebalancing. When it became certain that it would not be possible, we were forced to move as quickly as possible. There's another reason I haven't talked about much, which is that at the federal level, the budget wasn't ready at the same time. The Yugoslav Army was not ready with the budget, nor were the other budget users. The government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia only adopts the draft budget at today's session and will be delivered to the Federal Assembly next week. You can say that's a few days more. But the truth is that I personally carried out, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, several consultations with various groups; not with the law, and that is a lack. In any case, what awaits us is that from the moment the National Assembly adopts the law on the budgetary system, this will not be legally possible. A few elements first of these fabulous sums, of travel. You see, this budget classification is a big step in the spirit of parliamentaryism. Simply, when any government and any government establish this classification by the end of January or mid-February, when they deliver you all the budget items completed, to the last item in each ministry, at that moment you as MPs will be able to monitor very closely what happens to state money. This refers to divisions that will not exceed a few dozen million dinars, for some items even several hundred thousand dinars. So you're going to have a book in which by the fifth and sixth decimals, the so-called classification, which is internationally recognised, you're going to be able to track what's going on in the government register. It's the contribution of this budget to what's going to happen next year. Of course, the government won't spend billions on travel. We have shown on the side of the 12th of this budget, the seventh division - the Ministry of Finance, the cost of business travel for the entire government, and not only for elected and appointed persons, but for all officials of all ministries. That'll be a billion and 135 million dinars. When we provide you with further information, you will be able to know how much has been spent on any journeys. I don't see that it's possible to have better control than what's here, because that classification greatly reduces discretion. A few comments about what Mr. Martian and Mr. Michael said. If we look at the funding, our monetary regime is so-called... in a good Serbian language, a semi-monetary basket, the only one that can lead to printing money only if it is covered by additional foreign exchange reserves. So what you can see is the implicit increase in the foreign reserves we expect in the National Bank of Yugoslavia's vault. No less, no more, that's about what happened this year. If we were to reduce or, if we were to eliminate that possibility, it would mean that we would take the euro or the German mark as our currency. It would be too hard a course, given the state of our economy. If we know printing money is borrowing, then we know it can't have inflationary effects. I think we would drive ourselves to too much discipline if we reduced this debt of 0.6% of gross national income. As far as the budget reserve is concerned, as long as we don't pass the budget system law and until you adopt it in one form, the only way for us is to borrow the wheat buy-in stock through the current budget reserve. It is possible, if you wish, for us to show in that budget reserve what the amount envisaged for the purchase of wheat is. This amount can only be indicative of the maximum amount. Simply, what you buy from wheat comes back for a while. We have divided into those 300,000 tonnes per eight dinars 20% that we predict as a subsidy element or what our forecast is, which is that the price of 8 dinars will be higher by 20% than the market price. It's a clean subsidy. The rest is a loan to the stock reserves, which they can compensate for by selling wheat on the market. We'll get that information. However, we do not have the opportunity in the law to say that this is because during the year, this budget reserve for the purchase of wheat will be filled and empty. As far as agriculture is concerned, if you look at the share of what is given for agriculture, for which is less. But if you look at real growth, real growth is there and it's bigger than many budget items. Yeah, three, 54% of this budget, that's right. But that's because this budget has some items that are brand-new, like paying off foreign debts we didn't have last year and we have them this year. Or, rather, a significantly increased item, which is called the grant for the PIO Fund, which will amount to 44.1 billion, which this year, after execution, is about 20 billion dinars, all in all. So, I think an interesting discussion is expected and I hope that the larger the numbering groups will support this law, in principle and in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-21-0.u16024	I thank Minister Djelic. This would be the end of today's work. We continue our work on Wednesday, December 26th, 2001, at 10.00 p.m. Bon appétit. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 176 MPs attend today's session. Please confirm the quorum. I figure we have a quorum, we can keep working. I would like to inform you that there has been a delay, as two committees, the Finance Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee have taken place. I inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Vladimir Andric, Dusan Budisin, Natasa Milojevic, Mihajlo Jagodic, and only in the morning Išpanovic Istvan and Dragan Vuksic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-President, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. The Board of Justice and Administration, within the meaning of Article 159(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, he suggested that an emergency procedure, within the 5th item of the agenda of this session, consider a proposal for a decision to suspend the judicial office of judges of general jurisdiction, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 21 December 2001. I am putting on the vote of the Committee on Justice and Administration's proposal to consider, within the 5th point of the agenda of this session, the motion for a decision to suspend the judicial office of the judges of the General Court. For 128, against 40, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, a total of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee for Justice and Administration, sense of Article 159(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, he proposed that, as part of the 5th session's agenda, the motion for a decision on the termination of office of public prosecutors, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 December 2001. I'm voting on a proposal from the Justice and Administration Committee. For 125, against 45, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, a total of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. V.D. the Republic Public Prosecutor, within the meaning of Article 159(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed that, following an urgent procedure, they be placed on the agenda of this session and discussed within the 5th item of the agenda of the proposal to elect public prosecutors, which were delivered to the National Assembly on 25 October, 6 November and 18 December 2001. I'm voting on a proposal from the Justice and Administration Committee. For 120, against 43, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002. I give my word to the People's MP Mr. Pal Shandor, and after him is the word of the People's Messenger Radojko Petric.
