ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14603	Mr. President, please, in accordance with Article 24. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, please inform the MPs of the termination of the work of the PDS Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14604	Please be quiet. Are we gonna hear from each other or take a break? Mr Kovacevic, there are no obligations under Article 24, but I believe that what you have said already represents the information you wanted the MPs to receive. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word, followed by MP Tomislav Panajotovic. Since MP Petar Jojic is not present, after MP Tomislav Panajotovic, Djura Lazic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14605	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the way the session of the Assembly ended last Wednesday speaks of a very dramatic situation in which we met. The dramatic nature of the situation was announced by mass protests by workers, mass in the number in which Mr Đuric spoke (a few hundred thousand of several million workers), but the drama continued on Wednesday and itself with the fact that the president of the Assembly, Mr Marsicanin, who is the vice-president of the DSS; then Mrs Gordana Comic, Vice-President of the Assembly, who is the Vice-President of the Democratic Party; then Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, who is head of the DOS parliamentary club and vice-president of the Democratic Party; then Mr Mihajlov, who is head of the DSS Group, etc. It was all a cause for great anxiety. Patience began, first of all, from Mr. Michael's announcement -- that the DSS would not vote for the law in principle either. This meant that unless the law was adopted in principle, there was no discussion in detail. The appearance of Mr. Martian behind this pay phone, instead of anxiety, has brought little hope. He said the DSS would plead for the law or the DSS's commitment to be "for" or "against" the law will be formed the moment the amendments are discussed. This means that he indirectly denied his head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Michael, who presented a completely different vision. And that wouldn't be very important either -- that personally encouraged me, I speak for myself, not on behalf of DS, because no one authorized me -- that there was no other reason for fear. It's a matter of the political strategy of the party that makes such arguments here. The reason for anxiety was this: three or four DSS MPs for this speaker said "we will not vote for the labour law in principle because four of our directors of health institutions have been replaced. "Now, imagine what more careful analysts can say. In one of the key system laws, for which one of the largest parties here in the Assembly has been defined, it will not be voted, because there has been a change in human resources in some health institutions! It has its price. Of course, it can have the current political benefit, but the permanent damage that the DSS and the entire DOS will have is far greater than the current political benefit. However, from all this confusion, we need to find a way out today, by taking into account the suggestions of Mr. Marsican and Mrs. Comic, who mentioned a great term in their speeches - a compromise, which is the key to every successful policy. A compromise to be found between the unions and the government, unions and the Assembly, but also a compromise to be found between the two parties, which are facing their views here. Imagine, gentlemen of Parliament, how absurd it would be to call for possible compromises with the union, and we cannot find a compromise here between the two parties, which have been defined as a common destiny, for a common future, etc. Personally, I expect Mr. Marsican's statement and announcements, that the debate on amendments will mean that during the debate on amendments, we will have the opportunity to make some of the 200 amendments that have been submitted here and adopted, not just 20, as adopted by the government. If the DSS remained with its position -- that there would be no debate in particular, that would mean that the party, which is fiercely covering the government, gives the government enormous opportunities. And that is -- the government decides whether the adoption of certain amendments will solve the labour law issue or not. I hope that there will be reason here, that the Government, which has spoken its position, will have in mind what the MPs will say, declaring itself on the 200 amendments, which will be on the agenda here, that we will find a common solution. Of course, in the atmosphere created by the fact that, in some ways, the announcement of giving up the abstinence in the labour law vote opened the hunt for Minister Milovanovic. Such an atmosphere was created that, at the moment the work ended, an avalanche against Mr. Milovanovic, in which some people were involved, whose dignity I absolutely appreciate and respect. At the moment Mr. Milovanovic was passing the O.R., I heard (during long football) exclaims and exclaims that are characteristic of low-class football games. Mr. Milovanovic, in whose immediate vicinity I was, probably, in some way, responded to what he was told, but in any case... (louds - lying)... He hasn't exceeded his powers. Of course (here are my colleagues saying - you're lying), I stand behind what I said because I was the most direct witness. I will complete the presentation by calling for a compromise; to make a statement on the Labour Act in principle, and yes, yes, then try to make a huge number of amendments, which have been submitted here, be considered most precisely, to adopt something that will contribute to the improvement of this law, but will not enter into its essence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14606	Replica - Martian (votes - aaa).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14608	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I never go out for this pay phone to give someone hope or to give someone a little fear. I didn't even know it was going to be the result of my Wednesday presentation. If what I said we would vote for the labour law, if the key amendments submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia are accepted to that law, then let someone's hope be. But since the government has not accepted the amendment that we believe is key, that hope obviously, if it is hope, is gone. Is that anxiety now? There's no need for anxiety. You remember when the Democratic Party of Serbia highlighted 53 amendments to the labour law that we were welcomed to the knife by the proposings and that what is said is standardly said in public continuously that the Democratic Party of Serbia is against reform. So the reform moves are those that are as proposed by the government and anything to change in these proposals, it is against reforms. Well, it won't be like that. We're by the government... (Glasses:Theme. ) The theme is the answer - replica to Mr Panajotovic. We received an answer from the government that a large number of amendments by the Democratic Party of Serbia were accepted without the reform essence of the law being changed. Then who's playing here, gentlemen of the People's Parliament? That's exactly what we're saying. The basic proposal of the Proposer is one thing. The amendments can fix things and suggestions without the reform essence of the proposals changing. That's what we're saying. The adoption of amendments to Article 105 will not and would not spoil this fundamental idea, the fundamental desire of both sides to make the law become and remain reformative, as it basically is, but is not valid. All stories of the international community conditioning the adoption of a labour law in order to grant loans, sign agreements, this or that, are mere manipulation of both the public and the MPs. They, and when they condition, do not condition that the law be passed as the government has proposed but that it be passed. This means that we have the right to bring it in to determine that this law is both valid and to satisfy both sides and third. Besides, the Democratic Party of Serbia, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, does not decide here on its own. Without the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Democratic Opposition of Serbia would have a majority; therefore, a large number of MPs, not only members of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, do not support the government's proposal as the government delivered it to the National Assembly and there is the problem. This law, as proposed, does not have a majority in parliament. After all, they may have it, which we will see at the vote, and the vote is a compromise. (President: Time. ) The vote determines whether the proposal has received a majority or has not received a majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14609	The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14610	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, indeed these days have been a great deal of controversy over important laws and there have been opinions both for and against this law, depending on which angle anyone observed this bill. It's perfectly normal for people to look at one thing differently, on a particular bill. It is not right, however, that for a government representative they are not good and that they are indignant with the government's representatives, all those who disagree with this proposal, that, practically, by the minister's behaviour, we all have to think that he thinks and how the government proposes. It's not democratic. It's not human, and it wouldn't be normal if we all thought the same thing about one proposal. But to return specifically to my view of this bill. The minister said the bill was made up in a democratic way, in a democratic process where the partners were both trade unions and employers. However, this bill is the least respected interest of workers and trade unions. It all comes down to the creation of the larger and more favourable conditions and positions of employers. The union is only formally mentioned and essentially loses its basic function of protecting the rights and improving the professional and economic interests of its members. I see this draft labour law in a set of laws that preceded - it was first the Labour Relations Act, the Privatisation Act, and now the labour law, which practically narrows and restricts workers' rights. This best illustrates the reasons behind the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia's proposal for this law, or the proposal for a Law on Privatisation. In addition, the prime minister literally said, he is responding to some remarks that the Privatisation Act will sell companies, companies -- no worries, because we will not sell companies, not our and foreign partners will take businesses and businesses, but we are selling the market. In that sentence and to that end lies the essence of the basis of this labour law. This is confirmed by Article 103 in all eight positions, because there is indeed a great liberalisation of the layoff of workers; in this article, and especially in attitude 4, and in attitude 2, indeed, a practical employer gets completely free hands when it comes to layoffs of workers. The special story is a member of 109, with the regulated question of paying a cash fee to a worker who gets fired under Article 103, paragraphs 1 and 2 and is similar to the provision in Article 119. It's a bill of law. It is said that this law opens, i.e. create conditions for greater employment. I'm asking -- how much higher employment, when this bill extends the working age to 65 years of age. So five years we have more for each worker and in that time we practically close the door for new generations to get to work. Furthermore, by this law we practically open the door to foreign partners, but under more favourable conditions for them and very unfavourable conditions for our workers. This law, especially in Articles 13 and 14, prohibits discrimination. I would completely agree with those two members, because we really need to tackle employment discrimination at every turn. But while we're here, to add that the current law, and the law that was passed before it, has abolished discrimination, which previously, in Broz's time, was expressed through the national key when it was de-polluted. According to this national key, there are enormously high national rights or national minorities, and everything under the emancipation of national minorities and ethnicities, and it has occurred in some parts of Serbia, for example in the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, that the national key is 9-1 at the expense of Serbs. It was a kind of discrimination and dissuasion of Serbs, as well as their banishment from the Kosovo and Metohija areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14611	The word has a People's MP, Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14612	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a lot of negative atmosphere and bad impressions concentrated around this law, mainly because of the multitude of misinformation or half-truths that were made about this law. It is our duty, as an MP for the DOS, to clarify some of the misunderstandings that were followed by this speaker and also in public. In fact, it has been said that this law allows only three months of maternity leave, which does not end the information until the end, so it is not said that it has the right to leave, because of the child’s care, from 365 days after the date of the maternity leave. It is said that birthright is denied, and they are entitled to 100% income, unlike the situation we had under positive legislation. There is talk of abolishing collective agreements, and 26 members of this law refer precisely to collective agreements. It is talked about how responsibility is based solely on the responsibilities of workers and not on the responsibilities of employers, and key provisions are introduced that protect workers by this law introduce threats to dragons by punishing the employer: a ban on the employer's activity, which does not conclude a contract on working with workers or on temporary or occasional performance of jobs; it does not carry out the application of compulsory social security of workers; it does not pay its workers, and it has the resources in its jury account that would be sufficient to pay off earnings to workers. So there is a much more serious responsibility of the employer than the responsibility of the worker. Just go to Prince Michael's, look at the pizza shops, look at the restaurants, how many students there are, how many refugees there are, how many of our citizens, who are abused by employers, who don't pay for insurance, who often don't even get paid; about the labor contract that we don't even talk about. It is not unusual when such information about the law is brought about by those who have led to the situation that in our economy there is a tragic imbalance of 3:1 in favour of those who are unemployed, pensioners, and functionally unemployed in relation to employees, and we know that a healthy market economy implies the obligation to have a relationship 3:1 precisely in favour of employees. If they did not show responsibility when they ruled this country and when the market and economy led to such a situation, we cannot realistically expect much greater responsibility when they are in opposition benches. It is not unusual even when professors of general defence and social self-defense put themselves at the head of workers, they declare this law to be anti-worker practically advocating for the remaining relations in the economy which are essentially self-government. It's uncanny for DSZ professors to manage themselves as a system of social relations. What is unusual is the fact that some positional parties, some DOS parties, for the sake of gaining political points, deny reform processes in our society. What is incorrect in this regard is the fact that the conditions for the adoption of labour law are first laid down by the adoption of a set of law on justice and a round table is held at the Sava Centre. Then for days, the Legislative Committee, the Board of Administration and Justice, Mr Protic of the Ministry of Local Self-Government, Mrs Karamarkovic, Mr Ivosevic and Mr Kostunica, all their intellectual and professional capacities, are putting together a set of system and judicial laws to be applied in practice. And then, when these laws are passed, then the law on working conditions is passed, by adopting the DSS amendments, which is a completely incorrect condition for the second time in a session. We cannot declare the government quasireform, we cannot treat the government as an opposition when it proposes laws, and this government is not a quasireformal government, and we are not an opposition when it sets us up as head of the district, as directors of public enterprises, when that same government makes us its decisions as board members. We need to distinguish the position from opposition behavior. If we ask citizens to fulfil their obligations to gain their rights, we cannot only retain our privileges, not fulfil the obligations that we have under these privileges. This system of laws, therefore, tax laws, the Law on privatisation, the labour law, represent a unique, coherent system, an unbreakable system, a market economy, which we as DOS promised citizens of Serbia, implies three cornerstones - private property, as a dominant form of property, competition on the market and the labour market. If this law, which provides for this labour market, is not adopted at this time, the question of the effectiveness of the implementation of the Privatisation Act is also raised, the question of the life of the reform itself in our society. The basic principles that this law declares, and cannot be disputed that these principles are good, is a responsibility - as an employer - we said that it is prohibited to act if it abuses its powers in relation to the worker, if it does not report workers for compulsory insurance, if it does not pay the wages - but also the responsibility of the workers. Is there anything more natural than for a worker to stop a working relationship if he does not carry out his work tasks, unless he has the right knowledge, if he abuses his work obligations, if he abuses his sick leave. Why are we underestimating our worker; if a million-and-a-half gas-bitters are the best workers in Europe, our Serbian gas-bitters, why are we looking for different conditions here in the country compared to the conditions that exist there. At the very least, our workers are not all employed on a party basis. There were workers who were employed and according to the work skills they had. Social property and self-government, which have been two stones around the door of the Serbian economy for years, should practically be dominated by these system laws. The conditions for the abolition of social property have been met by the adoption of the Law on Privatisation, and the abolition of self-government will depend on the number of anti-reformally-oriented MPs in this room. Besides, what Otto Fisher said about someone's work is terribly simple, and for another, it's just terrible. Thanks a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14613	The word is Mr. Michael's replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14614	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Pitiæ, if you have a political life as a trade, I understand that it is your pragmatism and that you are prone to it. If that's how you experience political life, it's okay. In the DSS, we do not see political life as a trade, but we see it as meeting the commitments made in the elections. We will not trade through the interests of citizens and across the back of citizens. If that's how you see it, it's your right, but we'll never do it, never do it. So in this case there was no trade, any, across the back of the citizens, on one set of laws and this law. If you think that any government in Serbia is allowed to trade and make deals across the back, as popularly said, you are very wrong. The DSS is not prone to it, nor will it ever be inclined, and therefore, on all the laws, especially this law, which is an important system and reform law, we will not trade at the expense of citizens, be convinced. Just like that, if you have that in mind, we can talk and make deals. Otherwise, they rot compromises, some in this room may be prone, the DSS will never conclude.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14615	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Kesejic, and after that, MP Dragisa Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the union's ex-president, current Minister Milovanovic, speaks affirmably of a law proposing to Serbian parliamentarians. It would be no wonder if Minister Milovanovic, before becoming a minister, stood up for workers' rights. That's why there's a saying in the people, "When the freaks get high, stick to it and beware." That is why it is appropriate to this law that is before the MPs of the Republic of Serbia. Speaking of how this law protects workers' rights and that in law employers have less rights than workers is completely pointless. Well, even if that were the case, why should it be the right for the legislator to put two partners in an unequal position in the law: employers and workers. However, that is absolutely not true. This law, first of all, speaks of a collective contract as a university category. He can be applied, and he doesn't have to. What is most important, and what is apostrophe in this law, is that the employer makes contracts with workers and at any time the worker can get fired by different criteria. Why? Because this law does not know the category of the process of determining the guilt of workers. Category - the worker's guilt is exclusively in the hands of the employer. The cancellations that workers can receive are exclusively within the jurisdiction of the employer. The collective agreement can only be signed with representative trade unions, and in this case, the union is the Association of Independent Unions, which will say that the minister himself is signing a collective contract. All the other unions for him are some wild, self-called unions. It is certain that such a law, if adopted, will bring workers into an even more difficult position, that the economy and reforms will be further slowed, rather than promises made by the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14617	The word has a folk MP, Dragisa Popovic, followed by a national envoy, Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14618	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, respected citizens, today we are discussing the Government's draft labour law. What are the reasons for this law? Ensuring conditions for implementing start-up economic reforms. What is this law based on? This legislative project has been built into solutions suitable for transition countries, with market economy demands and, of course, the economic development of our country. What does this law provide? First, this law provides consistent application of the Conventions and recommendations of the International Labour Organisation. Secondly, meeting the need for economy, with an emphasis on providing conditions for the functioning of small and medium-sized enterprises. Third, establishing uniform standards regarding the rights and obligations of employees. Fourthly, the balance in ensuring the rights and interests of employees on the one hand and the interests of employers on the other. Fifth, higher material and social security employees. The sixth, abolishing complex employment procedures, in establishing a working relationship; and also in determining disciplinary responsibility, and then resigning. From everything, it is clear that this law is reformable and now the key question is: who are opponents of the adoption of this law and of this law? In my discussion, I had no intention of mentioning the fourth braker in passing this law, but I'm going to have to mention it. This is obvious, opponents of the adoption of this law are people of the changed regime: those people who had Lukashenko and Saddam Hussein for friends; those people who left behind an army of unemployed; those people who left a huge debt to this people and to the new government; those people who, too, I will have to mention that because I came from the Borski District, left behind a wasteland in this district that is second in Serbia's reform power. I'll just give you some information. The Bohr mining plant currently owes a billion marks. It's an inheritance. It's normal for them to be opposers of this law. Imagine He "Gerdap" in Kladov; the account of that giant is blocked, it's three million German marks long. Take, for example, Kladovo Shipyard. The shipyard in the lower Danube, the people of this area know very well and respect their opinion, has a perpsecitiv. They've also brought this giant into debt. It's about a billion marks long. In a little more years, I'd say, in 10 years. IHP "Prahovo", also one giant in the Danube, is in big losses and large debts. I don't want to talk about them anymore. The opponents of this law are unemployed. These are the people who used to say, "Uh, it's a good regime, the pay goes and I lie." So they transformed it into something else, which is, "You can't pay us as little as we can do." And this regime that's gone has come to the workers and the unemployed. He had his own exchange -- "you can't work as little as we can pay you." The opponents of this law are some union leaders, my colleagues talked about it, they are professors of defence and protection, they are now defending self-government socialism. All of this is kind of understandable, it has some kind of defense and reason, it is incomprehensible that a party belonging to the same political group -- the Democratic opposition of Serbia -- says there is some kind of "dil" here. There's no "dil" here, there's a political agreement between DOS parties. Therefore, gentlemen of the DSS, I remind you that you belong to the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, that you have received citizens' trust in that uniform and with the ideas carried out by this reform government. It's unnatural to be in power at the same time in opposition. It's something that's unnatural. Furthermore, those who are opposers of the law, I will have to mention Mr. Mamul, who has said nicely that it is not clear to them that America and England will never be a land of proletarianism, and that Canada will not be a land of joint work. That's their opinion. I'm sorry that my DSS colleagues are joining this group, this option, this three. But hopefully, there is time, they will slowly separate from that attitude. What do employers say about the bill? For the bill, employers say it is acceptable for them. I quote: "The new labour law is not on the part of employers, nor only workers and the right balance where it is important that workers come faster to work, because they will not be faked competitions, and workers are faster to quit. "So, the benefits will be both for the state and for the workers. That's what Nebojsa Atanakovic, president of the employers' union, says. What do the workers say? Fair, capable, professional - they accept this law because, under this law, they can earn and live from their work. No more social services, no more... What do the experts say? I will allow myself to quote people from the Economic Institute, people who are expert in this law: "The proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is reformal." But there are anti-reform forces (here you are, Mr. Vukic) who want to divorce him and keep him as much as possible from an old socialist system under which the security of wages and employment of workers is only important, while the economy can fail. Many do not seem to realize that a new age is coming in which no one has any security, in which there is only a certain general uncertainty. Who's the suspense for? And for the entrepreneur, for the owner of the company and for the worker. So it's for the employees, too. Furthermore, the government also cares about those who will lose their jobs. It's the government's social program. Part of the workers will remain in place, part of the workers will be overqualified. That's what the government cares about. In the end, because of the public and the people following this transmission, we in the O.R. have defined ourselves. Someone will miss, someone will be on the side of reform law, on the side of this fundamental law. Workers get a simplification of working relationship, problem solving surpluses. The Government's draft labour law guarantees employees the right to receive adequate income, material security during temporary unemployment, protection at work, health care and other rights in case of illness. What further does this law provide? More protection of employment is provided, especially for minors and women. Next, the introduction of flexible forms of work, i.e. the right to social and health protection of those who are not constantly employed in a company, shall be ensured. Minimum earnings are introduced which are determined in accordance with the cost of living, existential needs of employees, labour market criteria, general level of development of the Republic. It will be established by trade unions, employers and government, which has a key word, because it guarantees work. At the very end, profits must be paid exclusively in money. Pay must be paid at least once a month. If that's how it's agreed, it can be done more often. Furthermore, to disrespect the rights of workers and their engagement on black employers follow rigorous penalties. This is reform, this is a fundamental law, and the Democratic opposition of Serbia will vote this law, the Democratic Party will vote for this law and all parties that originally belong to this political option that is the will of the people. The people asked for it, they joined us, we want change. We've joined together, it's the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, we're working on change. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14619	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14620	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the representatives of the majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when they have no argument, go ahead with it, and repeat it once again 40 times during their presentation, so that, I guess, the arguments are more convincing, that they are some reform forces, that they are something to change for much better than what we had, as they, to God, are smarter, better, more successful than all the others who are politically opposed to them. If your reforms are all what you've done in 15 months your authorities, 14 months of your government, if you're reforming and the people are living harder than they have lived in times of aggression, if you've been reformed, and that your electricity price has been increased by 500%, if you've had reforms, and that the prices of basic products are, and I mean oil, bread, milk, milk processing, meat, meat, meat processing, increased by over 400%, and wages, and in all this, are not increased by more than 20%, so, realistically, in a decline of over 150 - 200%, I'm interested in what kind of reforms are they? Where are those reforms? What are they looking at? In the fact that people are living harder and harder, that people are living worse and that Serbia is turning into a polygon of your lies, your forgeries, your slanders and nothing else. Show that to who praised this law. Give me the name and last name of those people to see. I brought here a book from the Convention Assembly and recommendations from the International Labour Organization. I'm not a man who'd like some international organizations to make laws for us. I've read almost all the conventions and recommendations. Nowhere, but there's absolutely no similarity to this law. And what you're going to say is that it's something reformal, that everyone else is anti-reformists, great. If I'm anti-reformist because I'm against an increase in electricity prices of 500 percent, I am. If I'm an anti-reformist because I'm against an increase in the price of oil by 400%, I am. If I'm against your mob behavior in the state and that's why I'm an anti-reformist, I am, and I'm proud of being an anti-reformist. If we're anti-reformists just because we can, even though you're completely blocking us, to stand up to you, we're anti-reformists. When you let us on TV... But you'll let go of everything, only you won't let the radicals go just because you're afraid of the truth, just because you're afraid of our words and nothing else. All those who will vote against this law will show that they care about workers, that they care about this country, and they will show that they have an honest reform, even if you call it an anti-reform course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14621	The word has a People's MP Miomir Ilic, followed by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14622	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, proposed by the labour law, will, in the proposal's view, provide better conditions for greater employment, curbing work on black, providing internationally recognised employees' rights, as well as conditions for social partners' dialogue. Lawmakers have consulted, as explained by government representatives, the government of Germany, the World Bank, the International Labour Organisation. The law was made for the market economy; it would be okay if Serbia had developed an economy and a stable market, such as that in Germany. It is forgotten that over the past decade, we have had an economic blockade, a civil war on the premises of the former Yugoslavia, the collapse of Yugoslavia, the collapse of a fixed market and market space. Large industrial agricultural capacities have run out of markets, and thus there has been an increase in the number of unemployed. While our great European friend and donor Germany has in the past decade united its divided country and extended the market within the country, this same friend, with the help of other European countries and the United States, has managed to break Yugoslavia to create banana states with which he will be able to do what he wants. One such desire is their contribution to passing such a law that in our conditions cannot be applied and reformable for the following reasons. One, market. The market doesn't exist. Prior to the adoption of the new labour law, a number of other laws need to be speeded up and restored to the work of the economy, the restoration of the economic capacities that were destroyed after NATO aggression, and can, in newly created conditions, succeed, then, carry out a complete ownership transformation of social and public enterprises. Under two, a reduction in unemployment -- without the start of industrial and agricultural production, major investment construction, there is no increase in employment. Donors don't live. It's empty stories and stories for little kids. 700,000 people don't work, and the rest of the 750,000 work at the border of economics. Under three, eliminating the black labour market. The SPS would welcome a legal solution like this if she had a basis. That's impossible at this point. Germany couldn't do it in their own country. How many of our workers in Germany are working on black? Under four, equalizing all kinds of work. I would leave the proponent's attempt to equate all kinds of work, but that's impossible at this point, until a full ownership transformation of the social sector is carried out. Hence, and a large number of objections to the proposed legislative solutions, as this law appears to have been made only for the private sector, which does not recognise the union presence. What is an employers' union? What social enterprise is in this union right now? Not only can the Union of private entrepreneurs decide on the life issues of all workers. Until full privatisation of the social sector is carried out, the collective contract must be a basic and general act that regulates labour rights. What it means to give too much authority to the Director (at this point, most of it refers to social enterprises) so that he can receive, fire and punish workers, and that the same worker has no rights, protection of the second-degree body of the company. This isn't good for the workers or the director. Teached by the experience of the petoctobar revolution, the damaged worker can organize so-called "the" so-called "worker" in order to protect his rights. Crisis headquarters, and here's a problem for such a director. Under five, achieving social dialogue. How can the proposer call for social dialogue when the draft law fully minimises the role of the union and excludes the obligation of collective bargaining. It is not even clearly defined by the union presence criteria and, in a possible arrangement with the employer, the determination of representative trade unions with a 10% employee criterion is insufficient, it should be at least 30%. Under the 6th, 3rd of May 2001, this assembly passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act, which is repealed until the adoption of this law. Some of the solutions that are then potential by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to be introduced into the law, are hereby exempted. There is no, within the framework of employee earnings, obligation for the employer to exercise the right to add-on and that: past work, diet during work, regress for vacation, field supplement. Dear MPs, this is supposed to be a law of work. At this point, for those reasons, he can't be. More could be called the labour law, as there will be no reduction in unemployment, which will be increased due to over-authorisation of the employer and objective inability to employ unemployed persons. The SPS will not vote for such a legal solution, as we have also been against this law in preparation, not for reasons of obstruction, but for reasons for the solution to be high-quality and compatible with market conditions and possibilities. First of all, I believe that the proposer of this law, headed by the minister, is here to answer why 200 and some amendments have not been adopted. We're glad some so-called. opposition parties, and now leading, join our stances. I believe that the minister who has proposed this law, which is not adequate, should resign, and in particular his misbehaving, insulting the SPS MPs, and grumbling inappropriately for this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14623	The word has a National MP Milan Stanimirovic, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14624	Mr. President, the President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a draft labour law, whose primary goal is to bring relations in this area closer to market enforcement requirements. Like any law that changes established habits and thinking, he faced great resistance, controversy and controversy, even long before he was in front of the Serbian Parliament. They're the loudest in the public, I got that impression, they were the ones who didn't even read it. In many ways, this atmosphere reminded some of the old times, when some committees and circles were condemned books, theatre plays or movies, and none of these judges had ever read or looked at them before. Some stakeholders have made an impression in the public and tried to form and prioritize a negative view of the law in people, who are thus deceived and presented to them in the wrong mirror the basic intentions and intensities of this law. The foundation of this law is the introduction of a new way of thinking and rules of play, in which economic efficiency is a fundamental objective, through which only a successful end to transition and national economy can finally be put to a sound foundation. Unfortunately, many still do not realize that we need a fierce discontinuity with the time of self-government socialism, the agreed economy and joint work, as well as the understanding of the work that has arisen from the system of economic relations, which has ruled in this country for more than half a century. Let's just remember those divided into manufacturing and non-productive work, so when the surgeon sews his hand it's non-productive work, and when the tailor sews his sleeve on the coat, it was production work. The marginalization of work on these premises and its perilous influence are expressed in the newly combined sayings of work, many of which are spoken by MPs after this pay phone, such as "No Better Work Than Work"; "Who likes to work it was about his head"; "Radio doesn't play you radio"; "Teach the school so you don't have to work"; "But I love this regime -- the pay goes, and I'm lying down," and it's already cool and many times mentioned, "I can't get paid as little as I can do. "The half-life organization of economic life based on utopian prisms of socialism and loans of hated capitalism, economic stabilisation programmes, as well as the devastation of economy and destruction over the past ten years, when the country's systemically destroyed economic substance, have, on the other hand, pushed a source-based saying about the work of this people, which reads: "Who does not fear hunger." A sick economy has been treated by infusion and transfusions of foreign credits, instead of therapy being directed to change the way a patient lives and to stand on his own feet. Today we are witnessing difficult negotiations with the world financial institutions, in order to save the offspring from paying the bills that their fathers and grandfathers have left for them. Among those who are the most fierce opponents of this law are people who have the most psychological problem breaking up with ideological deposits of the past. Some have yet to be reported that the Berlin Wall has fallen. Some have been reported but refuse to believe it, and some Utopian believe in its rebuilding and return to the old. In doing so, there is a large number of those who are for changes in the labour market without their privileged position being defiled or threatened in any way. The sooner we face the truth, the sooner we will cross with delusions and be more prepared to pay the price of transition, because there is no free transition, with clear knowledge in front of it that this time the denial implies the real objectives of establishing a market economy, in the near future based on economic legality and economic prosperity. In doing so, these denials will be significantly less than those we have paid as the utopia of socialism, on the one hand, and late national-romanticism, on the other hand. The truth is a bitter cure, and we know from experience that bitter drugs are unpleasant, but they must be the most effective. For years, we've had a lot of paper rights, inconclusive in practice. We normally prescribed things that couldn't be settled in reality. Facing truth and reality requires us, gentlemen of Parliament, to pass such a law on work that will firstly allow the exercise of the rights guaranteed by the Constitution of Serbia, i.e. rights to work from art. 35th and it's a right to work. We can bring here the best possible labour law, but we need to understand that all labour rights are just an empty flossule without achieving basic rights - the right to work. We need investment investments. Since we do not have our resources, investment from abroad is needed, in the mutual economic interest. But, gentlemen, whoever wants to place his capital amongst other things in this area wants a labour law that is even closer to the labour law that is in force in his country. Experts say the proposal for this labour law is the most similar labour law in Germany. I'm asking you, have any of you ever heard one of our gasters complain about the German labour law? It is natural that someone who invests his capital wants to manage it, not someone else, in his name. The labour law, which has so far protected the unemployed and not the workers, cannot be a recommendation for foreign investment. Serbia needs a social pact of unions, governments and employers in implementing reforms and changes, with the knowledge that the process of moving towards new ones, in a situation where we have already lost too much time, can only mean the divorce and rumunisation of this process. The loudest in defense are the old trade unions that have shared onions and potatoes in the past, not finding it appropriate to oppose the economy of destruction. The gentleman who heads the most human union, with the most members, Mr. Milenko Smiljanic, instead of taking the role as leader of this union as a partner in the reform process, placed himself as an appraiser, dealing with cheap social demagogy which, ultimately, could cost Serbia very expensively. The rigour of this union president is clearer to those who live in Vojvodina, near Subotica or who have studied there. They know he lost two jobs. He taught Defence and Protection at the Faculty of Economics in Subotica and Marxism and Socialist Self-Government at the Faculty of Civil Engineering in Subotica. He has now united the two cases in the union in defense and protection of socialist self-government. The union, as a partner in creating a social pact, must play a significantly different role in new circumstances. It should be clear to all citizens that lunch is not being prepared from an empty refrigerator. Those who have no stronger arguments are served by facts, and the facts speak of 26 thousand constantly indivisible enterprises; in some 24 thousand companies a bankruptcy procedure has been launched; about 650 large, failed enterprises employ about 650 thousand workers, without whose recovery or suspension it is impossible to regulate internal debts of over 800 billion dinars. Those who did not have the courage to oppose such an economy of destruction do not have the right to be brakers to those who are not trying to lower their temperature as their predecessors, but to apply mechanisms and treatments that will heal and heal the country's economic organism in the long run. And this country's economic organism can't heal unless we're all ready for a market check of our values. The empty demagogue phrases and the working rights flossula and the verbal struggle for work without real action, the interpretation of reality without an active relationship towards changing the objectively difficult situation in the national economy, are only the current collection of cheap political points, and in the medium and longer term it is extremely harmful, I would say even fatal to Serbia itself. To those who claim that the law will be inapplicable to our terms, I would like to set an example for Germany. One people was divided into two systems. The same people in two systems produced, on the one hand, Mercedes and BMW, and on the other hand "warburg" and "trabant". Here is the end of the story of economic efficiency. But that's where we go back to the story of psychological and ideological aspects of transition, including this labour law. Today, after billions of marks and changes in the law, things change the slowest in the minds of the East Germans, and I'm afraid that's the situation with our citizens. It is our job to convince them that, other than the path to reform and inclusion in modern world and European flows, we do not. In the end, what I least expected was the call we heard from this pay phone, from the authorised representative of a parliamentary group, that Serbia continues to pursue the fight against globalisation and the new world order, among other things, and by not adopting labour laws. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not belong to those who believe that globalisation and the new world order are just; in particular, this system is not fair to the underdeveloped and developing countries. But this fight against globalisation, whose witnesses and actors we've been to for the past 10 years, and some would like to continue in the future, reminds me of my own time of crazy movement. Ned Lud is leading the delirious movement in England, when they wanted to end industrialization, to stop her by breaking machines. Instead of being educated, to prepare for a new era, to learn to work on these machines, to realize that the process of industrialization is unstoppable, they broke machines. In the same way, for 10 years, this country, this people and this nation, has been broken to stop the unstoppable. It's not our job to stop the unstoppable. Our job is to find our place in this unjust world, as we can see, with as little loss as possible for our people, our country and our nation. For those who have received a mandate from the people in the previous elections for change, and not a conservation of the existing situation, it is to prevent the awakening of the Ludicrous movements in these areas, in their open but also masked vision, which should not be allowed by slowing down the process of discrediting reforms. In the 100m race, our neighbors, and those who are further, have an advantage of 30-80m. Some say we'll catch them faster if we slow down. Efficient economy is the only way to achieve economic and social rights - we should all consider it. The step towards finding this country's place in Europe and in the world is also the adoption of labour law, which will allow every citizen to develop and decent life from their own work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14625	By the book, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14626	Mr. President, today you already have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Article 101 of Position 1 and Special Position 3. The MPs, who broke our machines two years ago, insult people who aren't here, present some details of the private life of people who aren't even here who can't even defend themselves, insult a huge number of workers by saying that against this law, workers who are incompetent, who are not honest, who are not professional. You, Mr. President, do not react at all, how obvious the intention of those who rule the law is to force us in any way to uphold the law. Like, well, first of all, we're not for reform. We are for reforms, but we are also for the protection of those who will suffer the consequences of the reforms. This law does not take into account at all. Then the minister says - or you'll vote for legal order - to fight each of the MPs in order to pass the law. And the minister, wherever the law appears to defend, enters a fight in which he is never equal, because he represents attitudes that are not correct, so, by representing those views, the fight cannot be won. Why reform now, after 10 years of sanctions, isolation and bombing? Which your German friends did not offer reform in 1991. Why do you convince us that now, so sad, instead of going to Germany and serving the Germans, we should bring them here, to serve them here in our factories, to decide here on our fates, not to cost them a single dinar? The flag workers are out of a job after 30 years of standing for one German salary, and during that time you've devalued the mark, so they spend that salary in two months. It's not that simple. Young gentlemen here are talking about how this law protects workers who have worked "on black" so far, because the employer forbids action. Why don't you say it was all meant for Article 161? The labour law? I think we will succeed until the end of the debate in principle that especially on this series of charges, probably caused by your anger that the law cannot pass, we will respond evenly, as follows. This law has written down many good provisions and ruined many good provisions. You could've found the middle. That President of the Union would sooner I have reason to criticise here, because he sat with Djindjic, smiling, after agreeing on what the labour law would look like. Now you're making him black in front of all of us, and with your Prime Minister in front of the TV cameras, he said, "Here we have a deal." So please, either he's lying to a goat or he's lying to a horn.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14627	I cannot, as chairman, do anything, nor does the Rules of Procedure allow it to prevent political manipulation. There were no offensive expressions here, it was said that the one who is against the labour law is protecting the unemployed. So MPs are not directly offended, it's political manipulation, but no more than that. That's what the crazy movement was called by the man's last name. I have not noticed that there has been an insult against the MPs of the people. The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14628	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft labour law has caused all these problems for one reason only: which, as an employer, is the signator of this law, and as a worker, who is on the other hand, Mr. Minister, who is authorized to defend this law. As Mr. Minister has explained this bill, it is best to say that sentence when he speaks to Parliament with - please listen to me. But that's not all. What happened on Wednesday was a classic obstruction of parliament's work, attributed to the alleged opposition, and I personally listened to Mr. Minister when he called on DOS lawmakers in the hallway not to enter the hall, not to provide a quorum for work, to continue the session. I can't understand now the government's desire to pass some law in this House, and, on the other hand, a representative of the same government, that. The minister calls on MPs not to enter the hall and vote on this bill. There's something going on, something's wrong. What Mr. Minister managed to do, is literally prescribe one proposal, which was delivered by the German government and the World Bank, of course, along with some adjustments, and these corrections go towards narrowing down the rights of employees, i.e. I'm a worker. Why are these, in my opinion, modest rights reduced? For one simple reason, to allow employers to give those rights that he absolutely does not want. Why was the paid leave reduced to two days? It's a little thing that shouldn't have stood at all. But what's drastic is that it's a maternity leave: it takes up to three months from birth; it's a third child's category, which most irritates all citizens of the Republic of Serbia; as well as the fact in the bill's proposal, which is likely to be an obligation for some new law, which is that employees work up to the age of 65. There would be a lot to talk about, but since time is short, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14629	The word has the People's MP Predrag Patic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14630	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, has been the subject of this assembly for several days now, is the labour law, and we are listening mainly to MPs who have been able to create relationships in this country for the past ten years, as long as the multi-party system is in place, and to create relationships in society, and to create relationships in the work as well. These remarks primarily refer to the part of the labour law that gives right to employers. I don't see, really, what would be controversial about giving rights to employers and what would be passed in the first place, because we had one law that failed to protect the company, first of all, from the employer and the worker. The situation in which our country and economy are located is very bad, so I don't use the term catastrophic that has been repeated here many times. We need this law for one reason: to protect businesses; and for another reason: to support the privatisation process. The privatisation process is something that we all agreed on in this congregation. We differ in detail -- how this privatisation should be implemented, but privatisation is inevitable. It is true that this law supports the privatisation process and in this light it is necessary to look at its adoption, as well as the environment for which it is brought, so, during the transition, during which it will apply in society, and above all in businesses, change. It will be a law that will have its true meaning in this new system and in the new society that we are creating here in this congregation. What is resentful of this law: it gives rights to employers; it will sanction the abuse of sickness; it will sanction the failure of the results of work; which will sanction disrespect, indiscipline. It has been pointed out several times from this pay phone that these are subjective categories, which will be decided by the employer. Realising the results of the work is not a subjective category. This is a category that can be very clearly defined: the product unit in the unit of time; these are the results of work and it is very clearly defined what it means to achieve, or not to achieve the results of work. A special accent has been put on Article 105, as a very controversial, member who is reforming in this law. It allows employers to make special, individual contracts with workers, to rank jobs, to rank workers, to allow workers who work well and rewards, and those who do not have the opportunity to do so well to reward themselves somewhat less. And there's all the philosophy. There's no big problem. I haven't heard from any private contractor who turned from this pay phone without being part of the opposition ranks -- because we hear from opposition entrepreneurs that they're raising unions in their businesses, they have labour council institutions, which is hard to believe -- I haven't heard from any serious entrepreneur that he's put any more serious remarks on this law. The principles established by this law are already in force in every private enterprise, which we all agreed that the only ones were able to withstand a trial of sanctions and the overall irregular position of our country and our market in relation to Europe and the world. So it's a model that needs to be passed by this law to social enterprises so far, which will be privatized, to get its owners, where they can build these relationships. Of course, workers will continue to be protected when they exercise their rights. The protection of workers is not denied by any member. Protection will remain on three levels: there will be arbitration, union level of protection, labour inspection will have its share in the protection of workers and, of course, judicial protection. Let's be open and let's be clear to all those who may be terrified of their jobs these days -- the best protection of workers is good and professional work. There is no employer who is willing to fire a good and professional worker, whether he is overnumbered, whether he is technologically excess or not. A good worker doesn't get fired. It's the biggest protection for every worker. There is a possibility, of course, in this situation of unprivatised economy and negative selection, that directors, according to their opinion, release good workers and retain workers by uneconomic and non-business principles. It is possible, but I think it's very clear -- if we adopt this law, if we make a labour market, if we make a market economy, the market will be regulated by both companies. Such companies will no longer exist, because they will no longer benefit from this type of selection, in order to eventually make a negative selection. This law is an interesting topic for the opposition and it is a place where a lot of demagogue can be said, I'm just a little surprised that a DOS party joined all of this, which is the DSS. This is probably the first time in the history of parliamentaryism that a party in power is acting oppositionally. This law is reforming, above all, because it carries reforms in the thinking of workers. So this law will make workers treat work differently, and earn money. It's the essence of reform in this law. Of course, it's not easy to make, it takes courage to raise a hand like that. As DOS, we took responsibility for reforms, we promised citizens that they would live better. That's why we have to have that courage in us, raise our hands and vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14631	The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14632	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, is on the agenda of the Assembly a law on work proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is a very bad proposal, and it would be best if he were withdrawn from the procedure, as the Socialists voted, because I am not sure that such a scandalous proposal can be amended in an amendment, regardless of what over 200 amendments have been proposed. It is said in the explanation that it is based on conceptually new solutions, suitable countries in transition, that it must provide conditions for implementing start-up economic reforms and create a positive environment for achieving the objectives set. That's fine, but it can't take away workers across Serbia's right to work. This draft labour law was made, as we heard here, on the basis of the German law from many years ago. It's not like that for them today. It is no wonder that the workers' Serbia and trade unions rose because they recognized the danger of their survival. According to him, the employer does not have to enter into a collective contract, there is no need to open an ad for newly opened jobs, or to keep the working day for 8 hours, and maternity leave would only be paid for three months. The unions warned the government that the law was withdrawn from the procedure because it was unacceptable, when it abolished everything they fought for. However, the government remains deaf to this and with three amendments to Articles 103, 106 and 138 of the law trying to get something done, which was certainly not enough and there was a strike. The fact is that the biggest problem is that there is no employer's obligation to make collective agreements, which cannot be accepted. It's not the same to apply a rulebook or a collective contract. When the option of choosing is left, the employer will always choose what is more appropriate to him, which brings him profit, and this does not have to be a collective contract, which in recent years has been a solid guarantee of the protection of workers. This draft labour law does not determine the employer's obligation to publish a job-free competition in information and labour market services. In this way, the Constitution, which makes the job available to all under the same conditions, is also violated. How will it be learned that there is a need for new workers in an enterprise or public service? The IOR Convention was also violated here, which prescribed that each IOR Member State should ensure the same conditions of employment, in order to eliminate discrimination against people. He's an interesting member of the 26. The draft labour law, which says that work on a given working time lasts for the longest three years, which is also contrary to the IOR Convention on the termination of a working relationship, after which it is two years, and then the employer must receive a worker if he worked uninterrupted. It may be three years, but with interruptions, where it takes two years. In Article 41 of the Law, it has not been established that the working day lasts for 8 hours. That's what it's supposed to say, no matter what the 40-hour working week is. However, it is possible for the employer to increase it to 60 hours without consulting the union and employees. It's not allowed by convention either. When it comes to work protection and working conditions, I don't think it's good enough and defined enough, that under 18 and women can't work on certain jobs, especially women shouldn't work at night in the industry. For the protection of motherhood, working women during pregnancy shouldn't work at night. Article 71 says that an employed woman has the right to maternity leave and leave to work for the care of a child for 365 days, where maternity leave takes up to three months of delivery. According to this, the employer pays workers compensation within three months of delivery, and for the next nine months the costs are borne by the state, and this leave is due to child care. Although Minister Milovanovic has repeatedly explained this - to say that because of his misbehavior in the assembly he should resign - it is good that those 9 months instead of his mother can also be used by his father. That still hides a lot of danger. The financial leave of the worker for three months is protected by the employer. For the other nine months, they formulate themselves as a child's care. And what if it's declared optional or there's not enough money in the budget? Then what's going on? When it comes to members who regulate the termination of employment, I think the 65-year limit is high, when we know that the average of life in Serbia is 64 years and that we have a large number of young and professional waiting for work. As far as the union is concerned, let me say that the SPS parliamentary group among the last groups was in line to agree on the amendments, so that the union accepted five of our amendments, and all the others, about 45, agreed with DOS and other parliamentary groups, although our amendments, and by trade unions, were the most acceptable. In this way, we do not support union leadership, but rather advocate a good law in the interests of workers (which is in the Socialist Party programme), and this is so bad for workers that we cannot accept it, especially when, after agreement and agreement, the Government does not accept amendments that are agreed and also parliamentary groups of them give up. Finally, when it comes to losers in eastern Serbia, mentioned here, I don't think the adoption of this law is going to solve their loss anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14633	The People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski has the word, and after him, MP Rajko Baralić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14634	Mr. President, honourable Members of the people, the government says of this speaker: the law is good. Again, the government says the law is wrong. The government says it is in line with the International Labour Convention, the government says it is not in line. The Prime Minister says the law is good, and the president of the assembly says the law is bad. And now we here, who are in the congregation, and we understand, but what do those people who haven't read that law do? I'd like to ask a few questions: okay, so this law protects capital, but what about the human factor, what about those people who've worked for 30 years? There's an answer for the minister. But the real court of law, during the application of this law, will say people, workers, trade unions. You say you've agreed with the unions, and the union says you didn't. My suggestion is that this law withdraws, that you agree and be unique. Since you can't do that, I'd like to make you a proposal, especially for maternity care. I suggest, Minister, that a woman who has four children does not work until the age of her youngest child, and in the meantime to receive the average personal income of her profession and any compensation she has in the profession. When the full age can be employed, if it does not have 75% of the average personal income. A woman who has five children that has the average personal income of her profession and income in the profession, and until retirement to receive that personal income. Why is that good? We know that there is a white plague here in Serbia, a fight against drugs, young people cannot and must not make marriages, because they do not have the basic means. Surely this proposal would come to the approval of many young people, to improve the birth rate and everything else. I was particularly irritated by something about this pay phone. One MP criticises the gallant, with hatred, with other MPs. I'd just like to point out, the newspaper of November 30 says "when the son of an MP is recalibrating." And let her raise her child, and Professor Simonovic said colleges are educational.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14635	Replica. I take the opportunity, since the MP Mr. Marjanski mentioned me, pointing out that the law is not good. I fully understand MPs' groups, and I'm more of an opportunity to explain some other things. Here, especially today (which you are nervous, slowly, has time) mentions two things: that I am and that the Democratic Party of Serbia is against this law because we are against the reform law. For the fifth time in five untrues I return with--that's not true. So, like you almost got on the train, but you're three seconds short and you're late and the train's gone, so this law is a little short to be good. He's basically good. The government has accepted dozens of amendments as a proposal, showing that the initial proposal was not good, as we pointed out, but by accepting a tenth of the amendments confirmed its willingness to amend the law. There are still some key amendments that make the law right. Neither I nor the Democratic Party of Serbia say the law is bad. No, we're not against reform law. It's a lie. We're for good reform law. Not everything the government proposes, and the Priors declare reform, because it is simply not true. We need to pass a good reform law, not any reform law, and that's what this is about. Several more key amendments remain, if accepted, the Democratic Party of Serbia could generally plead with the labour law as proposed and what it would be after the adoption of a tenth of the amendments. But it is a matter of proposing whether he will remain stubborn, whether he will insist on some provisions that are unacceptable to most MPs or not. It's not bad law, it's not good enough and it can't be accepted without the adoption of essential amendments, which preserve the reform essence of the law, but bring it in line with the opportunities that exist in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14637	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14638	Just a few sentences about the government being stubborn. We're not stubborn. As for the amendments proposed by the Democratic Party of Serbia, we have had serious talks on these amendments and almost all the amendments proposed by the Democratic Party of Serbia have been accepted. The Democratic Party has normally withdrawn a number of amendments, so the only thing left is that this famous 105th member is in line and I don't think that's the problem. What is important is that the amendment of the Democratic Party of Serbia reads as follows: to delete the member. The problem is to delete that member, because then a vacuum opens up where it's just very difficult to change any contract. You can't change it for the better or the worse. If you want to perform the usual redistribution of workers within one factory, you can't, because you don't have that member anymore, so that's the point of that article 105. There is a possibility of a formulation with that member that gives a guarantee and deletes that provision claiming that directors will use that member for abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14639	The People's MP Rajko Baralić has the word, and after him, the MP, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14640	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed journalists, I wanted to say, and the Honorable Mr. Minister, but it cannot cross my lips, because Mr. Minister, Dragan Milovanovic, to the MPs in the extremely inappropriate, flattering, inadmissible way of talking about parents, and it is a shame that such a thing is happening in this high house. That doesn't say anything about him and me, but Mr. Milovanovic says everything. The Labour Act, which is before us, has not been supported since the very beginning and has been consistently declared as regards the outcome of the vote, both during the debate and in the way it participated in the submission of the amendments. This is a law which, in every point of labour law, reduces these rights to a level that employees are practically completely prevented from planning in a stable legal environment what they will do in life, in what way, in which the company and in what relationship with employers. It is clear to me that this is a law that supports Serbia's largest number of employers, and we do not dispute that. It has been said that representatives of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) supported the proposed law. Here we have heard that it is and is not, but if it is and is not, the truth is, it should be said that the representative of this international organisation of work is actually a representative of employers from this international organisation. So it also speaks of the essence of the law itself and of what is its basic intensity. Here, various qualifications were heard, different assessments, different arguments; several young hawks, which Mr. Marsicanin finely defined as Quazireform course appologists, were assigned here to exclaim your titles, try to offer at all costs the bill offered, while all others qualified as people against reforms and do not spare in that word, talking about some past fluids with persuasive intonation and in a way that is not worthy of the National Assembly and People's MPs. The head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club said the collective contract was a liquid from five decades ago -- there is no Mr. Jovanovic here -- and the first collective contract was signed in this country nine years ago. It is not true that there are no collective agreements in the countries of the European Union. They exist in Italy, Germany, and in some milder form in some other countries. So there's been a lot of quasiarguments since there's no free transition. We know there's no free transition, but it doesn't have to be the price of a transition to pay only the labour of this country. The price of transition should be paid equally, if possible. As proposed by the law, it will only be paid by people we define as workers. There are several members in this proposed law that DOS practice has already been denied. Article 14 says that a person seeking employment, as well as an employee, cannot put himself in an unfavourable position with respect to others, and then there are arguments when this cannot be done, and among other things - membership in political organisations; that is said Article 104. It is beautifully written, only in practice membership in political organisations, above all in the SPS, at this point means a safe resignation in the prosecutions, the judiciary, public enterprises and many other state institutions. It's much easier to write and say than in practice to implement it properly. Article 17 states that a foreign citizen and a stateless person cannot establish a working relationship under the conditions laid down by this law and a special law. That's what it says, and the director of the Republic Public Revenue Administration, a man without color, smell and taste is a person without our citizenship, a person who doesn't have a work book in our country who didn't have a working relationship in the Administration, and is located in the most subtle place where all the finances of a country are hidden. French citizen, major of the French army and decorated by some of our...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14641	Mr. Baralic, I beg you to return to the subject. The Republic Administration of Public Revenue is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14642	It's on the agenda of the 17th Labour Act, Mr. Chairman. In addition, Article 103: fired by the employer - and the employer may cancel the employment contract if there is a legitimate reason for that, etc. How does the employer determine that there is a valid reason for firing? The law doesn't define it. The employer is left with discretion, therefore, the subjective opinion of one director, one owner, of all the people who work for him or for him. There are several times here, also with different qualifications, discussed maternity leave. You can talk about it any way you want. The fact is that all mothers who have a third child have no right to use that qualification they've had so far. Whether it fixed the birth rate or not, that's not the point. The bottom line is that this abbey has improved the quality of life in those families that have a third child. By adopting this law, it abolishes. The Socialist Party of Serbia will not support the law because it makes it very clear to those who are interested in working conditions what it thinks of them and what it thinks of those who propose the law. Also, I'd like to say that it's inappropriate to call certain union leaders today by names like we heard about some union leaders today. Before October 5th, your pride and pride were yours. Today when, I say, they're on a course that you don't like, you talk about them as if they don't represent anyone. But anyway, they'll tell you what you weren't able to say about them. And finally, I propose to Mr. Milovanovic and the president of the Industry Committee to visit Ivanjica, to visit the Proleter factory that burned down in the fire yesterday, where 400 people were out of work (shown by mizoran 900 people, and TV reported 400, I apologize), since it was a very good collective that practically ran out of anything for one night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14643	The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic has the word, and the next speaker is the People's Messenger Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14644	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the poor legislative solution that is being looked at in resolving the issue of collective, i.e. a contract of work and an insufficiently good solution when it comes to regulation of probationary work, when it comes to regulation of traineeships through vague explanation and definition of maternity care to provisions relating to representative trade unions and to criminal provisions, give us a real reason and reason for us to be against this law. What is clearly defined from the discussions of some MPs, which is that, apart from manipulation by the congregation majority, efforts to manipulate union organisations. That's where we heard a clear, decadent statement from DOS members who, by the way, are headed by a union, who said -- if you're not good enough, we have control over a union that will go out into the streets and show the opposition how the government should listen. I expected the president of the DOS parliamentary group to come out for this pay phone, deny or disprove a statement, such a decided statement by a member of the DOS. Everything was clear when the minister appeared behind the speaker and made it clear which union organisation was being manipulated by the Serbian government. On the other hand, manipulations take place within DOS from individual political organisations, which, relying on influential and individual trade unions, do not want to be adopted without their amendments to adopt this law. What are you guys doing? Do you think you can control the full social situation in Serbia? You can, while you have arrangements with individual union leaders. The question is when will the people in Serbia be cut off, and then you must have full responsibility to bear for everything that is going to happen in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14645	Replica? I wasn't there the whole time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14646	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the previous speaker mentioned my discussion and presented the lie. I did not address the opposition's MPs in my discussion. You can look at the stenogram, I have clearly addressed the MPs of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica. To be clear, I do not address the opposition, for I have no right to do so; first of all, I do not belong to these ranks, and why should I address you. It's for the public. I did mention that a large group of people in Serbia, workers first of all, expect fast, faster and root reforms. I said there'd probably be a lot of dissatisfaction that would make their point. Of course, we came to the conclusion that probably Wednesday at 11 o'clock in front of the Serbian Parliament, two union headquarters will speak their views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14647	The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarević has the word, and then the People's Messenger Gordan Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the labour law in the way of the proposal has caused great indignation with the workers. The workers believe that this law should be commented and exaggerated to detail and be given some green light, even if it is pale green. Of all the unions that work with us, this law has not been given a green light. The workers are on their way to strike for this law today, they're on their way, and the government is on the move with the minister. He promises workers that this law is not so bad and for this idea "not so bad" he will be corrected in an agreement that did not bear fruit. Workers from all over Serbia came and demonstrated in front of the assembly building and along Belgrade streets, nothing better happened. Workers were promised that with 19 amendments, the government would bridge their demands; even those 19 amendments do not change the essence and purpose of the law. The law aims to turn the old law, which does not correspond to the new ownership transformation, into a law that protects the employer. The worker will now exercise his rights at the age of 15 and 18, because he gives the employer a lot and asks for little of it. As for the birthright in Serbia, and it is directly linked to this law, it is being regulated negatively by a member of the 71st law. Article 99. - at 65 years of age, the worker can retire. The average length of life is equal? A good committee that pedantically divided all amendments into three groups. The Committee has been acting strangely, since the 219 amendments, to accept and propose 24 amendments and, behold, this is the beginning of the labour law. There have been comments that DOS parliamentary groups have spoken with union leaders, i.e. partners involved in the construction of this law. None of it's been done. These upstairs union leaders were invited only after the workers' strike. As far as the minimum earnings that are regulated in this law are concerned, we still sell half-carves, oil, sugar, apples in the congregation service itself. Young people aged 15 and 18 can't go under water or into land, or mines. Well, I guess they should get their parents' consent to go there, too. As far as surplus employees are concerned, the employer has been introduced to do a programme to regulate how the surplus will be regulated. It doesn't make sense and it's inconclusive. Which groups the employer will bribe to accept, or sign, that the colleagues are surpluses in the company. The law needs to complete a reform course with higher intrusions and higher labour obligations, so that the employer can do whatever he wants. The point of the proposal is that the boss is everything, and the worker is nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14649	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, followed by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this assembly has passed only one system law so far, and this is the Privatisation Act, and now we have a labour law on the agenda. These two laws are caused by each other, or are closely connected. Right at the start of clearing up - we Serbian radicals are not against privatisation, nor against the market economy. If anyone in this country is in favour of privatisation and market economy for ten years, it is the SRS. If it hadn't been for DS 1994 to stop privatization, so-called. Djindjic's law in the Federal Assembly, who knows how far that transition would have come by now. We also know that the transition, as you say, is actually a transition to a market economy or capitalism, is very painful, but that disease doesn't cost people. We need to find a way to get through this period as painlessly as possible and survive. Why were we against the Privatization Act the way the government proposed? Because you have not conditioned from interested investors, those who would report to your tender, and our public ad, there is a Serbian word for it, to deliver and offer a development programme, which would guarantee that there will be no layoff of workers and that our factories will not turn into warehouses. That was the basic thing that we resented the Privatization Act. He went the way he did without it. This labour law now leaves room again, and I guarantee you you will see at the next meeting a new health insurance law, a new law on PIO and a new law on child welfare, that all of this changes, because the state needs to take off as much of its obligations as possible, obligations relating above all to pensions, sickness benefits, and there is the possibility of reducing child care obligations as currently provided for. She is 100% to a year, but why isn't it called maternity leave? It's precisely because, from three months to the year, if it's called childcare, the Child Protection Act can determine that this compensation is not 100%, but to be 60, 70, 80, and that's what's wrong. On the other hand, please, we shouldn't have been in this situation, when there is a white plague in the country, instead of establishing as a national interest the number two fight against the white plague, to make it impossible for mothers to stay with a third child for longer, because we know what it means to conduct a proper population policy. Leaving empty, deleted space on our country's territory, no population, no restored population, no rejuvenating -- that's what our enemies want and expect from us, and you leave them room for all of it and do what they want. Thank you very much, no more time, I've even gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14651	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14652	The former president of the Association of Free and Independent Unions, which would have been said to be a working mother, who, by yesterday, along with Zoran Zivkovic, the current interior minister, and others across Serbia, convinced workers not to pay electricity to those who leave them without a job, overnight became an evil stepmother, or minister in the government of his party chief Zoran Djindjic. Now Dragan Milovanovic, therefore the former president of the Association of Free and Independent Trade Unions, is proposing a law that will significantly reduce workers' rights by adopting them, and has increased the size of employers' powers anyway. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the adoption of the proposed labour law would produce disastrous consequences for Serbian workers, because it would reduce the rights of employees, especially in terms of employment, cancellation and contracting and determining earnings. The current government has deceived Serbian workers and, in addition to numerous promises, has not adopted the most important labour requirements regarding amending the proposed labour law. What powers this law gives to the employer and how in practice this will look the best-known example of Zoran Pesic, the newly appointed Director of the Veterinary Station in Raznje, who has already said - waiting for this labour law to be adopted, and then you will all be fired because you are not my party's equalists, because I do not like you, because I do not like you, although he himself does not have the necessary qualifications and conditions to perform that function. Otherwise, he was formerly a member of the JUL, and after visiting some officials he became a DOS man. The Serbian Radical Party is urging the government of the Republic of Serbia to stop playing with the fate of its employees and to withdraw the draft labour law from the assembly procedure. The Serbian Radical Party believes the bill on labour is directed against the vital interests of workers in Serbia and cannot be supported as such. Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14653	The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14654	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the draft labour law has been disputed as never before. He took workers to the streets, and the president of the independent union said the bill was European, but from the Middle Ages. From the moment of publication of the first version of the draft and the presentation in public, the bill has had more than seven revisions. Apparently, those adjustments have always been minor. The fact is that social security cannot provide workers with this bill, nor can the existing government in Serbia allow a stable economy, nor can foreign capital come in greater scope and in company rights. The proposed law reduces the rights that employees now have. First of all, they reduce their severances, reduce their vacations, reduce their sickness benefits, eliminate two years of maternity leave for the mothers of the third child, shorten their notice, reduce the absence due to the care of family members, marriage, marriage, emigration, death. Apparently, the aggressive minister, who allegedly conducted a broad public debate, had only a bad theatre performance, since almost nothing agreed had been realized. According to the bill, advertising of job openings is abolished, although under the Constitution, jobs are available to all under equal conditions. How do workers compete for new jobs if they don't know where the jobless demand is? Therefore, there should be an advertising obligation that would not endanger the employer's rights to decide who he will receive. As for private individuals, advertising obligations are not necessary, but Serbia is only at the beginning of the transition and privatisation process. With this kind of power and government, these processes can take ten years. How can young educated people come to work in education and in health care, if there is no competition for certain jobs? Obviously, only employers have no objections to the proposed labour law, because the law gives all rights to employers, where collective agreements are optional, where competition is optional. The maternity leave no longer lasts 365 days, but three months after which, according to the Bill, the child care period is only 65% of the salary. Retirement conditions are absurd. The population in Serbia was exposed to strong war environment stress factors, active or passive participation in war, sanctions, the lower threshold of social endurance, increased crime rates, malignancy in constant growth, psychosis. Do you know that Serbia's most pre-ordinating drug is "bensedin"? A medicine that has a sedating effect. This is currently talking about the psychophysical status of the population in Serbia, and in the proposal for this law, the age limit for retirement is amazing 65 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14655	The word has the People's MP Dragoljub Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14656	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft labour law comes at a time when there is no work in Serbia and there is no production, when there is nothing good written to workers. The adoption of the draft labour law would result in catastrophic consequences in terms of reducing workers' rights, especially in employment, layoff or setting down earnings. The labour law should regulate this significant sphere, introduce fair relations between the employer and the worker. Instead, the draft labour law caused a storm of protests by workers, trade unions, threatened widespread unrest. It should have been a signal to the government of the Republic of Serbia that the bill is not good and that, possibly, it seriously changes everything that is at the expense of workers. Large, almost unlimited, employers' rights to fire workers whenever they wish, when they are not well-willed, are in fact the government's desire to meet EU requirements, European standards and European laws. It is necessary to disable workers for any work so that foreign partners are satisfied, in order to obtain foreign loans, so that the factories that the workers have built and built become prey of foreigners. The draft labour law lays down many rigorous provisions at the expense of workers. How they will react to mothers when they realize that birth by labour law means punishment, that maternity leave is only three months. How all of this will be responded by the unions you promised the labour law would be corrected by amendments, and deceived. Will the Government of the Republic of Serbia put all three unions under their control? What's left of the worker when the employer estimates he's out of work? Who's protecting him? Who stands in the protection of workers' rights? Will cruel employers' landfall thousands of families in Serbia? The future of workers in Serbia will be completely uncertain. Is this the cruel revenge of the Minister of Labour or Nelado, Mr Milovanovic, for a welcome that was given to him by the workers of the flag in Kragujevac? Will there still be such and similar meetings with the Minister of Labour? It's obvious they will, because the labour law is executed by the interests of the workers. The moral obligation of us Serbian radicals is to tell the truth from this pay phone, and when it is painful. We're not looking forward to it, and we don't want any bad things to happen, caused by the bad, catastrophicly bad marriage of the government and the Ministry of Labour. This marriage gave birth to a hump child, a humping labour law. Father Djindjic did not want to nurse him, and Mother Milovanovic only had three months of maternity leave. They tried to treat him with amendments. It didn't work. The more the coat of arms is born, the more the amendments can't fix.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14657	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14658	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SRS' assessment of this bill is such that I don't see much optimism in here. The employer gets unlimited rights, he chooses who he hires, deploys it however he wants, deploys and cancels, both political and party. The maternity leave absolutely, according to the SRS, should not last for three months, but should retain this earlier solution, in existing legislation. In law, in article 80 on the protection of disabled workers, little attention was paid to disabled workers. It is known that we have about 530,000 people with disabilities and that 130,000 people with disabilities are working on the territory of Vojvodina, and about 6,500 people with disabilities are working only on the territory of the municipality of Panchevo. As far as working hours are concerned with women, the SRS estimates that this is absolutely unacceptable because it is known that women work two working hours, one working hours work at a company, at an institution, and other working hours work at home and do household chores; it is not said for nothing that the house stands on a woman rather than on the ground. If it's about birth in our republic, and it's about a huge fall, it's about allowing women to have more time to spend with family and children. What is most important, and it is, is what is foreseen by Article 105, which says that the employer can change the contract in certain conditions, and the worker can remain unscheduled. Well, here's to seeing how individuals practice themselves in practice, and that's what's actually going to happen -- Peter Vukasin, the father of seven children from Ruma, remained unscheduled recently just because he wasn't a member of the party on whose side the director of the company is. What happens if this law is passed, how many irregularities will it bear with it and what will happen to the workers - the workers are written in black, if such an unchanged text is adopted in this House. These days, instead of our press releases on campaigning for parties and workers to improve this law, we've had a chance to read in the "Glas" list how serious the idea of establishing a union of prostitutes is. I don't think this is appropriate for the union and the workers to deserve to be spoken of and given more attention. As far as firing is concerned, another provision of this law is unfavourable for workers. Says the worker is out of a job if he commits a felony for which the prison sentence is scheduled for up to 3 months. The legislator forgot, or went around consciously, that there were minor crimes. The driver in the company, who causes a car accident or a misdemeanor and is sentenced to three months in prison, will be out of a job; but he did not commit a crime with imagination, it is an infrequent crime. When it comes to transitions, countries in transition could say that Romania has become the largest exporter of raw iron, old, because foreign capital has come to Romania, it has turned down factories and exports now, instead of products, old iron. This transition will hit our workers fat and deep, and therefore the SRS will not vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14659	The presidents of the parliamentary groups have the right to speak, if they wish and have not used their time. He has the word Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14660	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the SPS parliamentary group is still on the agenda, and after studying the Labour Law proposal, it proposes to you, MPs of the Assembly, that the labour law be not included in the procedure at all and be withdrawn from the procedure. We felt that this would be the right decision and would give the government of the Republic of Serbia the opportunity to, in co-operation with the leading unions in Serbia, prepare a more qualitative solution, which, with much fewer amendments and much less debate, for the benefit of citizens, and above all by employers and workers of Serbia, would be adopted. Unfortunately, only 60 MPs, in addition to the SPS MPs, voted in favour of withdrawing this law from the procedure, and one DOS parliamentary group, from the ruling coalition, was abstentioned. If that parliamentary group were then to withdraw the law from the procedure, we would have had four days less infertile work and we would have an opportunity to prepare a better solution in peace. It is good that, apparently, the parliamentary group within the DOS has defined itself to support the SPS MPs' position and to vote for the rejection of this legislative project. During his outing for the speaker, the resolute minister expressed doubts about the argument given by the ambassadors against the adoption of this law. He even expressed his view that there is no argument that this law is no better than an existing legal solution. It really takes a lot of courage to show that attitude, forget that there is a collective agreement, as a solution that is present in different forms in all European countries, a solution imposed by trade unions in all European countries of employers, to define primarily the area of income, and also the area of employment and layoffs from work, to forget solutions related to the position of women - workers? Thus, a huge argument, which suggests that the bill greatly reduces workers' rights in the existing labour law and leads to a fully privileged position as an employer. We are not against employers, it is clear that employers have the right to organise their means of working, for their own good, and also for the countries in which they work. But such a billing project, which greatly reduces the acquired rights of workers, is inappropriate in this climate, especially in this climate where the madistic movement, instead of banging machines, has shown itself by introducing crisis headquarters, which have mutilated and massacred Serbia's economy with incompetent people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14661	Mr. Srdjan Petrovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14662	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the DSS has its position on this law, it is in no way equal to the position of the largest left party, or one of the left parties in this House (it is now a matter of discussion, who is left and who is not). In any case, the DSS cannot support this law, for various reasons compared to the parties mentioned earlier. We don't advocate protecting workers at all costs, the way the former regime did. We just think that the reforms that need to happen, as well as the liberalisation of the labour market, must happen so that they do not destroy and threaten the stability of the state. We are as a responsible party responsible for the state, we believe that what this country needs is stability, and that stability is not only needed for us, the citizens of Serbia, it is also needed for investors, whose law and purpose is for the liberalisation of the market force. So, we don't do anything overnight, we don't break our knees, and on the other hand we don't protect what's long lost, some kind of labour rights. Whoever's supposed to protect that, he'll find himself. Surely there are more parties to protect workers' rights the way they were done before, the DSS certainly isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14663	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, the Social Democrats League Group of Vojvodina and the Woodland League will vote in favour of this law, because we think it's one of the reform laws that this country needs. Twenty-four amendments adopted by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, and the Government of 23, were quite sufficient to correct this law and better regulate the relationship between the employer and the employee and to raise workers' rights to a somewhat higher level than the one that was in the draft law without these amendments. There are a good number of amendments that are unacceptable to us, because they fundamentally change the meaning of the law and return the law to the Labour Law. We think it's unacceptable at this point for all of us. After all these discussions today and last week, some MPs may ask how can a party of Social Democratic orientation, such as the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, support such a law? And you're wondering, Mr. Wolfie, how come we can uphold a law like this? We can support him because we want conditions to be created in this country so that our program can be realized one day. As long as we don't get those terms, our program's just a dead letter on paper. That is why we will support the law and we will vote in favour of the law in principle, because we are starting from one - we are all in favour and we are all talking about some of the national and civil interests of all the citizens of Vojvodina and Serbia. Let's agree on what the civil interests of all of us are, what is the orientation of Vojvodina and Serbia -- whether turning Europe, is one legally arranged and rich state, is the Middle East, Baghdad or something else? I believe that most of you, like me, think you should turn to Europe and enter European flows. In order for us to do so, we must pass one of these laws, a reform law that will help us in our efforts. However, I have to say one more thing - Europe will not accept us as long as there are mounted political processes in Novi Sad against the president of the Vojvodina Parliament and the president of the Social Democrats League Nenada Chanka, so we should also think about it. It's not enough just to pass reform laws, to do something new. We need to take care of that, too. The Social Democrats League MPs Vojvodina and the Vojvodina Reformist will support this bill this time, and since then we will remain completely silent observers in this assembly, until the issue of Vojvodina autonomy is resolved, and as long as I only remind myself of the DOS parliamentary group, they do not meet the pre-election promises we made to the citizens of Vojvodina and Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14664	The People's Messenger Marko Petrovic, then Pelevic, then Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14665	Dear fellow MPs, the New Serbia Parliament Club issued its position here on Tuesday on this law, and this time we will repeat it, by noting one thing to all those present about the procedure for adopting this law. At this moment, when the debate is over in principle, we do not vote for the law in general, and we act as if the battle is already over. Let us, after this debate in principle, follow the debate on amendments, after which should be a statement of the law in general. Gentlemen, you who defend the old law, know that New Serbia will not give you support for the survival of the old labour law. The old labour law should leave the political scene and be replaced by a new one. What, we'll see. If after the debate on amendments, especially the one we mentioned, which is Article 105, there is no makeup of this law, New Serbia on this law as a whole will give its negative opinion. So don't rush those changes. We have waited a long, long time to make changes in this Serbia and we will not make decisions quickly here in parliament. Repeat, we have three steps. This is the first vote in principle, after which comes the vote on each amendment individually, and finally the law in general. When it's going to be and in what way, we'll see if today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. Mostly, New Serbia reiterates its position, which is that we will not allow the old labour law to remain on the political scene of Serbia, because this means staying and those forces that were defeated in last year's elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14666	It was used right, Mr. Markovic spoke twice. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14667	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the hall has never been fuller. The whole of Serbia is waiting for DOS conflicts to end and what our beautiful Serbia will look like afterwards. For too long, Serbia has indeed been in the clutches of the DSS-DS conflict. We ask you to clear this up once at last, to know whether the government votes for the bill or not to vote or the authorities need the opposition to vote in favour of the bill in order for any law to pass at all. As far as the SRS is concerned, you're not going to come across a rejection with us for real reform laws. Expect us to, as the right opposition party, reject all your draft laws for a number of reasons. The first is that the promoters are completely incompetent and incompetent because they accept 30 amendments to their bill, and they should accept 50 to make it look like something at all. Secondly, what you are doing very badly to Serbia, how do you only think about putting yourself in touch with those who decide this hour on some loans, some benefits, discounts and how you will prepare Serbia for a moment when you will simply hand it over. This law was supposed to be a good law, to vote you who voted for the government for him and that we who are in opposition have no chance at all to count how many of you are in the O.R. We know, it's a bad law, but it'll pass the law, life goes on. There's miracles happening here. It's unreal. The DSS and DS are setting each other up with ultimatums. We heard loud and clear - if the DS votes for the laws on courts and judges, the DSS will vote on labour law. That's right. Now that you have taken the obligation to vote on the labour law, how come you now have the moral right not to vote on the labour law? If you've been missing this law through all the filters so far, how come you have the right to now count on how many opposition people will be in the O.R., to eventually stop the Democratic Party in this bill and sit on the DOS presidency to re-trade something. It's not Serbia's grocery store. You can't run Serbia's stores. Serbia must be run by a programme, good or bad. If he's bad, he'll give bad results and the government will fall. If it's good, Serbia will move forward. The right to tell you, if you know the Serbian Radical Party, you know that we have never been wrong when Serbia goes forward, even if we do not participate. We have always been interested in Serbia's progress, but this conflict in which only when you get angry comes to the truth about how you lead Serbia doesn't lead to anything good. I'm not looking forward to it, and I should be jumping out of luck. I'm not looking forward to it. If this bill falls, the government falls. If it falls and the government doesn't fall, it's no good for Serbia. If it passes, and the DSS isn't for that proposal, you don't care about it for Serbia. Don't, please, you who are now waiting there to vote, to say that you would have been MPs in the Assembly at all if you hadn't had Kostunica and the DSS. I'm not talking to you guys who say "eggs," you'd be in the assembly. I'm talking to those who now bring you support for the bill to be passed. Today, in this room, it is decided who is the government and who is the opposition, but act like one. No duplicity, no hypocrisy. Or you're the government, you stand behind the government, and if you go to the well, go after her to the well. Or you're an opposition, so if you see that the government, as it is now, goes to the well, you stand before her. We're able to stand before you, and if you're strong, you're stepping on us. Don't play with these unions of yours on Wednesday, bring them here and pay someone to make a lesson and make noise in front of the assembly, and don't happen to think that they're calling some MPs who are stopping the reforms. It won't do you any good on Wednesday: that union was minimal to you while the minister was a member, let alone now. The transition lasts for years, and I don't think today will either be a transition or a transition will stop. What do we insist on? We're not your employer's term at all at stake in the law. We know what Serbia must look like, that relations in the economy must look like, but we are looking for minimum rights for those who will lose their jobs, for those who are disabled, for those whose job has stopped, for those whose job will end the need. We never got carried away that the worker owned the factory and we need the real owner of the factory. Probably under very favourable circumstances, foreign industrialists will come into possession of many of our factories, but if you give them that advantage, I don't even have much against it. Don't give them any other favors, there's no labour force in the factories. They have to find our workforce. If you're praising our workers themselves that they're the best in the world, then what are they doing on the street, why aren't they waiting for a new employer at the factory? Don't avoid the union. The union struggle is a world struggle and it's not our invention, it's neither communist nor socialist invention. Even at the time of the Socialists in power, there wasn't one union, there were more. The one who wasn't in favor of power, the one you counted as independent, and the one who was a Socialist bio for socialists was a state. The roles have changed and now your union is state, and the other one is independent. I and I can kind of accept it, but that's the only place you'll never find the radicals. Radicals in that story, in political games with unions, no. If they're right, we'll support their demands, and if they're dealing with politics at our door, they couldn't knock, nor can they expect to knock now. This is where we heard the leaguemen were going to vote in favour of the bill. Turn on the TV, turn on any programme on which they can speak and you will hear misdemeanors at the expense of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, insolently at the expense of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the darkest and worst possible words. What is it, a trade, and did you promise them anything from these demands they made you to vote for this law? I notice that you are also negotiating on the halls with some political parties. You were 176 when you took over most of the Republic of Serbia. Did you expect to ruin your reputation in a year by dragging opposition MPs' sleeves so that some law would pass? Your reputation, your strength is somewhere at the level of the 1989 Milosevic power. It took him 11 years to break, to lose the election, and in a year's time you can't even call the election, because you don't know which one of you is going to get into that election, and the people don't see you together anymore, even in cartoons.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14668	Anybody else answer for a word? Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina says openly, clearly and loudly whenever there are objections to someone's work. There is what needs to be criticised in the work of the government, there is something to be criticised in the work of the prime minister, but it is a system law that should create conditions for the citizens of Vojvodina and Serbia to move forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14670	If no one answers their word anymore, I'll conclude the search in principle. I put the draft labour law to the vote, in principle. For 115, v 108, abstention four, did not vote one, a total of 228. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft labour law in principle. Please keep your voice down. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you didn't come here just for this one law? I ask you to sit down and continue your work, or at least make a deal. I have a request from a large number of MPs, who are unable to continue work until 15.00 hours, to take a break in work now, so I would like to take a break in the work of the National Assembly by 15.00 hours. So, we're going to continue at 15.00 hours and let you know that the session of the Education Committee, which was scheduled to be held today at 1400 hours, will be held tomorrow at the session's break. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to determine if we have a quorum to continue the work of the National Assembly. I'm guessing we have a quorum to continue the session. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14672	In accordance with Article 117. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly say that a vote in which an identification card has been misused will be annulled and immediate access to identification and a new vote will be made. During the vote on the labour law in principle, taking into account the electronic list and comparing the list and the one standing at the entrance to the Assembly, it was established that MP Borislav Novakovic was not registered at the vote, that he was not registered in front of the hall, and that he then voted. After a follow-up, we found that MP Novakovic was out of the country, more specifically in Greece, Thessaloniki, and there was a serious violation of the rules of procedure. Since the decision has been made by one vote, we believe, and the Rules of Procedure require it to be joined by a re-vote. If anyone has an objection to the stay and presence of MP Novakovic, they may point out. We can, if you want, leave an hour and a half ( since he's from Novi Sad) as long as he has to come, if he's left the hall now in the Assembly, but according to our knowledge, he's out of the country and he's not coming back until Thursday.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14673	I've been informed of this, a check was carried out at the session's break and Mr. Novakovic, according to the information I have, is in Thessaloniki. I find that there has been an abuse of the parliamentary card based on the facts I have. There is nothing more than to conclude that this has occurred and to determine that we are obliged by the provisions of Article 117 to annul the vote on the draft labour law in principle and to approach the new declaration of the National Assembly. Of course, we'll hear from each other, there's a number of MPs who answered the word of the Rules of Procedure, first of all, did you answer? Did you take your word for it? No, I don't. Here you go. On what basis, Mr. Risticevich? (Marian Risticevic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You have no right, sir, you are not the president of the parliamentary group. According to the Rules of Procedure, only the presidents of the parliamentary groups have the right. Mr. Nikolic, come in. Only the presidents of the parliamentary groups have the right to point out their objection to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I assume you know so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14674	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I warned you that card manipulations will cost you when you stand up to each other. As long as it was covered by your cooperation in the National Assembly, you did what you wanted. This is a turning hour: either the congregation will act according to the laws and the Rules of Procedure, or we will not have the National Assembly at all. Such an important law to pass with one voice stolen, it is a disgrace to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to those belonging to the parliamentary group that has manipulated the card. In order for that to not come to pass, I'm asking you to re-voting with a roll call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14675	So, we realized that the vote was cancelled... (Marian Risticevic, from the scene: We have not found. I've been saying, I'm only offering... I'm asking if there's anything controversial? I call, don't go out, please, I accept Mr. Shabic's proposal. I'm taking a half-hour break. I'm scheduled a meeting of the president of the parliamentary groups in the first-floor premises to conduct an inspection. I asked if there was any doubt in the file, I found that the vote was cancelled. I'm taking a break and I'm asking the presidents of the parliamentary groups to meet me at the office on the first floor. Mr. Risticevic, please stick to the order in the Assembly. [[After break - 17.35]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to establish a quorum to continue the work of the Assembly. I'm guessing we have a quorum. In the break, we had a meeting of the president of the parliamentary groups at which we discussed the new situation, following a statement of objections that there had been an injury to Article 117. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that there was an abuse of Mr. Borislav Novakovic's identification card. We found above at a meeting of the presidents of the parliamentary groups that there were two lists, two lists of members of parliament to register the presence of MPs upon their applications, upon their arrival at the National Assembly. In one list, on the basis of which I responded directly to article 117 in the previous session, Mr. Novakovic was not registered as an MP who entered the National Assembly. His presence is recorded on the second list. On the other hand, we have information that Mr. Novakovic is on the official road and that he was not in Belgrade today, but that he is abroad. In such circumstances, as President of the National Assembly, I cannot make a decision in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the provisions of Article 117, because I do not have at this moment all the relevant facts which I could directly, as chair, to apply. I therefore ask the members of the Administrative Board to immediately proceed with this session to decide on the suspension of the session, to hold a session of the Administrative Board at 17.45 p.m. and to try to discuss the circumstances and, in accordance with the proposal of the Administrative Committee, to look for a way out of this unpleasant situation. I ask you to make the National Assembly known about it. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Nikolic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14677	First of all, you owe us an explanation, Mr. President, whether the vote was cancelled. You've annulled it. If you're saying now that you don't have enough evidence to determine whether the MP was there or not, then you're saying that the vote hasn't been annulled. Let's find out first. Secondly, it has been unequivocally found that MP Novakovic did not come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Having a computer copy mentioning his name, it's the first use of a card done probably because he gets the entire diary today, to charge the trip, after all, I don't care. That's another card abuse. You all know he's on his way to Thessaloniki. What's this about? What kind of delay is this? Or we will now vote again (because it is your duty to declare that the vote is invalid) if there is a quorum, and that is our only parliamentary provision, or possibly, if there is no quorum, to continue the second day. And to leave it to the Administrative Board to determine whether the MP was there or not, that's dancing. Where is this MP, Novakovic? Where is he when he hasn't been seen in the O.R. all day? Who did he give the card to? I was checking, not voted with his temporary card, but a permanent card. Who did he give the card to vote to? Did Serbian government officials vote on his card or not at the last vote? We need to determine everything, sir, why do we need the Administrative Committee? Why is there a congregation? There are 126 of us, we can determine everything. There were us, I don't know, if we're not here, then there's no sitting. If he's got us, he's got sessions. If there are sessions, we vote again on the law in principle. There's no other story. The government can run away Thursday from the session and Monday, we'll wait for them one day. One day, and then we'll vote in secret. I suggested -- either secretly or raising your hands, but you won't, you want cards. Now that you've come into conflict, you can see how the card manipulations are. Guys, the law can't be passed by stealing. How many laws were passed by stealing in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Kasa Joseph did not attend any sessions, and his name is on all votes. Is that how laws are passed? How will you carry them out if you bring them in this way? So, President, I completely reject this proposal of yours; or the session will continue, and if it is continued to vote again on the law; or there is no session because there is no quorum. As far as I can see, the work quorum was, the session continues, when we put to the vote, we'll see if there were 126 MPs who voted or didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14678	The decision to apply Article 117 and the decision to cancel the vote, in accordance with that article, as well as under the authority of that member, was taken in circumstances where there was a list of the presence of MPs. I don't have any solid evidence, though, to be honest, we all know what this is all about. I have no solid evidence that Mr. Novakovic wasn't in the O.R. [[Sagar.]] So, one thing we do know is that other evidence is that I could make a peaceful decision, and that actually affects whether one essential law would be passed or not. That responsibility, in circumstances where there's no solid evidence, I can't bring it. Therefore, it remains that the Administrative Board, which is my proposal, is considering the evidence that exists at this time, is considering the evidence that will be obtained during tomorrow and making the appropriate decision. If there are no other suggestions, I put this proposal to the vote. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14679	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, obviously it is necessary to reanalyze everything that has happened and make the most quality decision. That decision will certainly be made by the Assembly. Believe it's not in anyone's interest to abuse a single card, in the situation where we are, challenge an entire law, which is very important to us. Obviously, that law is important. We can work things out, but this isn't the place for controversy. With one vote called by one parliamentary group, that single vote does not change the essence. So the Administrative Board needs to determine a few facts. We have official confirmation from the competent congregation service, based on which it is very clear that the man you mentioned was in the congregation. That man will come to the Administrative Board. If the Administrative Board makes a decision that is not acceptable to the Assembly, the Assembly will make its statement. [[Sagar.]] It is necessary to make decisions based on some arguments, otherwise the Assembly will become the most harmless place in the country. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: It is a long time ago. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-03-0.u14680	Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. I'm having an appointment of the board of directors right now in the first floor room. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. Please confirm the quorum. I have no record of the number of persons present on official record. To determine the quorum, please insert your identification cards, but only your own. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Branislav Kovacevic, Vladan Jovicic and Juhas Attila. Išpanovic Istvan and Biachi Anton will be late, and Stanko Kovacevic will be away this afternoon. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Please, all present in the O.R., in accordance with Article 83, who are not invited to the session, leave the O.R. (the hall is leaving two employees of the Ministry of Labour and Employment). If there had been a proposal from the Ministry to be invited, they would certainly have been invited. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP to complete the vacant parliamentary seat at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5), would be approved. The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Zlata Djeric, elected from the election list of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs of the peoples, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Zlata Djeric. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: - THE PROPOSAL ON RAD (resuming) To remind you that yesterday we had a decision on the draft law in principle and that the decision was taken by the National Assembly; that we then had an objection on the irregularity of the vote, that the initial vote had been annulled, then the decision to cancel the vote was withdrawn; that a session of the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly was held, at which it had seen the lists of MPs, and that the Committee, on the basis of the fact that, in front of the names and names of the MPs, Novakovic was numbered, concluded that Mr Novakovic was present during the vote and therefore assessed that the proposal of the president of the Democratic Party of Serbia, Mr Mihajlov, was unfounded. (Glasses - we haven't received a report from the Committee) The Committee's report hasn't been multiplied? No, I don't. That's information, and if it's the president of the board here, he can get you out of it. Here you go.
