ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14682	I must say that the Committee's decision is not what Mr. Martian, president of the Parliament, has now said. In fact, the Committee has no jurisdiction to plead on this issue. Article 69. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly make it clear about the responsibility of this committee. This is a question concerning the Assembly -- as voted, whether there are doubts about the vote. This shall be regulated by other members of the Rules of Procedure. So, as a committee, we couldn't decide in any way on these issues, neither is it our jurisdiction, nor is it ultimately our job. As you know, yesterday, during the day, the president of the assembly first cancelled the vote, and then withdrew the decision because he didn't have enough evidence. A session of the Committee was scheduled, scheduled by the president of the Assembly, which was also not scheduled under this Rules of Procedure, but we agreed to come to that session because the president of the Assembly asked us to help resolve this situation. The only thing the Committee could take into account are the two lists that exist: it is an identification list of electronic voting in the hall and a list in front of the hall, which is here with me, which are signed by two officials of the Assembly, as well as the secretary of the Georgia Maric Assembly. We could only get a glimpse of it, of those two lists and nothing else. It's the only thing we could do. We've come to see these two lists, in that file, and we've found that this objection is unfounded for us. But again, we as a committee cannot plead on this issue, and it would be good for those in charge to make this decision. The speaker of the assembly, who obviously cannot make such a decision, is responsible for this congregation. We, as a Committee, have no other document based on which we can determine the situation, except for these two documents. I will remind you - in the last session of the Committee we have made a decision, since there have been numerous remarks from MPs regarding the diaries that read: in order for someone to raise his name must be rounded up on the list in front of the hall and must be present at one of the votes in the hall itself. So for us, MP Borislav Novakovic, like all other MPs, has met the conditions to raise the diary and meet the conditions of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, it is the Committee's decision. We have decided that the objection made by Mr. Dejan Mihajlov is unfounded on the basis of insight into the Parliament's documentation, but we as the Committee have no jurisdiction, according to the Rules of Procedure, to make decisions on this matter. And this is the transfer of the ball from the President of the Assembly, which apparently has responsibility for what happened, fails to make the right decision, after all, to us who are not in charge of it. As far as the Administrative Board is concerned, the situation is clear to us. We've made an insight into the list that's in front of the O.R., which is valid. This is the list (shows it) of 234 MPs, which voted 228. At the bottom of that list, it says - we declare that the list of registered persons was closed before the vote, shortly before 13.00 hours (there are two signatures) and - in the presence of Secretary Georgi Maric. In addition, we have achieved an insight into a copy of the electronic vote where we have also achieved the insights that MPs voted through the cards. We compared these two lists and came to the conclusion that Mr. Novakovic's name is on both lists. It's the only thing we could do for us. These are the only documents we could decide on. These are congregation documents. On that basis, we said that Mr. Deyan Michael's objection was unfounded to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14683	I'll be shorter than Mr. Vesic, but more accurate. I didn't turn to the Administrative Board because I didn't know what to do, but I was already in an emergency situation. You know, when you're looking for confirmation that you're alive so you can't get it, so you have proof that you're not alive, that's right here -- the man who's in Thessaloniki has a circled name on the list, so that's proof that he's in Belgrade. In such a situation (this is confirmed by television recordings etc.) I really couldn't take that responsibility alone and I called on the provisions of Article 69. (Mr. Vesic, as chairman of the Committee, should at least know what is in the jurisdiction of his committee) which states that "the Committee is following the application of this Rules of Procedure, considering and making proposals for its amendments and additions and giving an opinion to the National Assembly, on its request, on the application of certain provisions of this Rules of Procedure", and that was the basis for which, on the one hand, I sought the opinion of the Administrative Committee in such a situation, which, on the other hand, is dramatic and tragic, and on the other hand very comically. I listened to him yesterday at the session, in writing I don't have him, interpreting him in my memory. He has the word Mr. Goran Vesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14684	I'm sorry to have to go out, but I'm going to say for a moment - the decision on what kind of vote and decisions are made on the basis of Article 117 are decisions made by the President of the National Assembly, not the Administrative Committee. Also, the Committee has scheduled the president of the Assembly, not me as chairman of the Committee. I just came to the board because I was informed that the board was scheduled and we talked about it. So I just said that the president of the National Assembly has a discretionary right to make a decision and that it should not be hidden behind the Administrative Committee. We have decided on the basis of the documents of the Assembly, and whether Mr. Marsican, through the Committee, will determine whether Mr. Novakovic is alive or not, everyone sees it in the O.R., and it is not necessary for the Committee to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14685	This was actually information about what was happening yesterday, and we today need to continue the work of the National Assembly and find a way out of it. Meanwhile, some new elements have emerged. He has the word Mr. Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14686	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, on the video from yesterday's vote, it is seen that in the second row, in the sixth place, where officials who are not MPs sat, that it was voted in those places -- yes. We don't get into where the cards came from, where the ministry officials sit, where the cards came from in their seats, as voted -- for. We met with these journalists this morning, and we introduced our colleagues, the presidents of Parliament clubs and vice presidents of the Assembly. So, in the second row, in the sixth place, you can see in the video that a person who is not a member of the Parliament, who has no right to vote in this assembly, and in that place is voted - for. That's a video of RTS, which makes direct TV transmissions, confirms. I don't know how she got into that place where she was sitting, I don't want to go in there, if there was someone who couldn't vote, so he voted there, but there was a second row, sixth place in the video. The video is at my place, it's available to everyone who wants to see it and, simply, we think that, no matter who sat there, he can't be in a bench in a voting seat where someone who isn't an MP is sitting to be a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14687	He has the word Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14688	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if you expect the DOS parliamentary group to comment on any of your irresponsible remarks, because this is the least responsive remark, by re-voting, then you will not encounter co-operation, because you are no longer our coalition partners in this House, your coalition partners are the SPS and the SRS. You showed journalists at a press conference, which you organised at ten o'clock, a video footage of yesterday's vote, but you didn't tell reporters that in the parliamentary benches, where DS MPs and the Democratic Centre, in the second and third lines, no voting was possible because voting units were closed. These are the seats that have been formally scheduled for congregation workers, but they have been sitting on DS MPs for months. And in this support that you are now hearing, you need to look for co-operation, in us you will not get it, for breaking the labour law, because it's breaking reforms in Serbia, you want to admit it, or not. You have made a circus of your conduct from the Assembly, as you previously made a circus out of the post of President of Yugoslavia, and have tried to form a mob organization from the Republic Government. Come out with the evidence. He may once again meet the Administrative Committee, but the Assembly, by the will of the DOS, will not agree to deny himself, whether you want to or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14689	He has the word Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14690	Although I would be happy to sit and enjoy all this, I have to go to replica because Mr. Jovanovic is trying to push his partner into a coalition with the SRS. It does not occur to us, neither you nor they need at all in political life, and especially after what happened yesterday and what is happening today and what has opened up the big parliamentary crisis in the Republic of Serbia. But, Mr. Jovanovic, for the truth's sake, you found a new coalition partner, that's the SSJ. Yesterday, all the MPs of the party were registered to attend the session, there were no five at the vote on the bill, and at the last quorum, when the decision was to be annulled, eight came out of the hall, some so quickly that self-inflicted could have occurred. That's true, please nice. It's obvious, clear to everyone. And one more thing, don't play with the passing of the law, ladies and gentlemen the MPs, one day we'll have the Constitutional Court, one day, even if this power changes, we'll have the Constitutional Court of Serbia, they'll undo all the laws that have been passed so far. So you're convincing us here: one -- that laws are passed in an illegal way, the other -- that they're brought in legal, you're convincing us that there's a superman sitting in the congregation who's turning the earth, taking time back, flying through space, not flying by planes, coming as he wants and won't. I warned the president yesterday that he'd done some serious damage to the Rules of Procedure, but only because it was a party like that. Yesterday was supposed to go all the way - either the MP is here or isn't there, or the law was passed or the law wasn't passed. What Administrative Committee, what new session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? He was waiting for the president to arrive from Greece, which was in Greece, apparently. And to ask you one more thing - is there any responsibility for officials, is there any responsibility for the Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for one who knows that the MP was not there, and is signing the list in which the MP was there? And one more thing, God forbid, Serbia, that you organize elections, what kind of thefts there will be!
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14691	The word is Mr. Michaels.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14692	Mr Jovanovic, the DSS is in one coalition, which is a coalition with the truth and it is a coalition with interest, and our interest is citizens of Serbia and good citizens of Serbia. The only coalition we're in is good citizens of Serbia, and that's true. We want the truth to be established here and nothing else. It is the only thing we will be loyal to during our work in this assembly, and our only coalition partner can be citizens of Serbia. After all, they gave us a mandate in this congregation. We've had a state built on lies and abuses since 1945. We don't want to build a new state on the same basics. Reforms that are not in the interest of citizens, which are not based on truth and responsibility, are not reforms that can raise Serbia. That is why we are in a coalition only with the citizens of Serbia and only with the truth in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14693	Mr. Pelevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14694	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Union has been very clear since the start of the procedure for this law, and we have remained consistent. We voted against the adoption of the Labour Act yesterday because we believe that it protects the interests of workers, but exclusively the interests of employers. It's the only real truth. Mr. Nikolic, do you understand, and I see that you don't realize that this isn't really about the adoption of the Labour Act. This is about fighting for power between DS and DSS. You, Mr. Nikolic, are drawn into that fight. The SS will not allow it to be dragged into the struggle for power in Serbia, a struggle that takes place on the back of workers, which is at stake in this law. That's the only real truth, Mr. Nikolic. I understand, Mr. Nikolic, why you're so nervous and why you keep attacking the Soviets. You are in pain with the latest research, Mr Nikolic, where it says the DSS is the first, the DS is the second, and the SSJ is the third power in Serbia. You, Mr. Nikolic, are a representative of the party in seventh place who has no censorship for entering parliament. That hurts, Mr. Nikolic. Don't count the MPs of the Soviet Union. Count the votes you won in the last local elections. Count it, Mr. Nikolic, and the squares that you received from this people in just a month's work in parliament. Count it, Mr. Nikolic, those squares you got from this people -- 180 squares just for a month and a few days working in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Count it, Mr. Nikolic, and those 250,000 dinars you stole from this people because you faked your journey from Kragujevac, and you have an apartment in Belgrade. Mr. Nikolic, don't let yourself be dragged into a fight like this. (President: I beg you for peace in the O.R. That's what this is about. I always say, Mr. Nikolic, that I should stay out of the private lives of the MPs and party leaders. But these aren't private squares, Mr. Nikolic, and this isn't private money. It's the squares of this people and it's the money of this people, Mr. Nikolic. Thank you for your attention, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14695	The word is Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14696	There's been a violation of the Rules of Procedure here, Mr. President, because a series of lies you had to react to have been made. You should react because he spoke to a party representative who, in his first address to the National Assembly, said in this conference that he was the closest to you ideologically. Suddenly it's changed now. But, Mr. Pelevic, you've found both you and the full power of today two things you've been about for my name: an apartment that I've got in a completely regular way, totally in accordance with the law that I'm in today, even though it's been a year since you've arrested and expelled people; you mention some money that I still don't have any decision about, except for an attack in the papers, and I'm very happy to clear all this up before the courts, so it's obvious that I've never stolen anything in my life. Mr. Pelevic, I heard about you colleagues here from Ceda Jovanovic the ugliest thing, something I didn't know, Mr. Pelevic, about being a major crime. Now I ask you, is that why in secret negotiations with DS, yesterday all day, you let the Labour Act pass? You don't think I'm a commie, but I lived at that time and worked under that law that you don't even know about. Five of your MPs yesterday, Mr. Pelevic, were not at the polls, and they were registered on both lists and charged for the diaries. These are: Dragan Pantelić, Dragisa Binić, Ljubomir Mirkovic, Milos Lukic and Petar Petrovic. Eight people yesterday were not when we determined the last quorum to bring down the law, which is: Dr Jovan Deretic, Dragan Markovic-Palma, Dragan Pantelić, Dragisa Binić, Ljubomir Mirkovic, Milos Lukić, Petar Petrovic and Radosav Savijevic. There is one more thing to tell you about your private businesses; given that you have 14 MPs, DOS is responsible for not calling you now; given that you served Milosevic well, it did not suit him to call you. I know who's gonna call you for it. I know many in the country are afraid of you. Well, you've come across those who aren't afraid of you at all. I put myself in those. I'm only afraid of God, and I'm afraid some more honest man is going to give me something. When you transfer me, it only raises my reputation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14697	Mr. Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14698	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Nikolic mentioned my name, that I was not in the O.R. yesterday. I wasn't in the O.R. because unlike Mr. Nikolic and his party, the SS is involved in sports, it helps sports. Yesterday, we had an audience of our representatives who won gold, silver and bronze medals at the last world championship. Of the 64 countries, Yugoslavia has taken second place. Mr. Nikolic, you may be jealous because you didn't throw a party in your building, and we organized such a championship to keep the whole world in Belgrade. Mr. Nikolic, 70% of your MPs deal only with politics. Mr. Wolf never did anything in his life. When he entered the Serbian government, he immediately got an apartment. Now drive one of the trees south, because you want the people to trust you again, so Mr. Vukitch can get in some good car. Unlike your MPs, the SS MPs have their own biography and have been doing something in their lives, Mr. Nikolic. Your basic interest is in politics. You have no result, Mr. Nikolic, you don't. You've never helped anyone in your life, except to fool the people in all the elections so far, attacking the red witch and saying some more ugly words, but just for personal interest, to get an apartment, Mr. Nikolic. You represent yourself as a great host. You have a house in Kragujevac, Mr. Nikolic, you should be ashamed that you took an apartment of 200 square meters, so you gave the amendment to tax those who have apartments of up to 170 square meters by extravagant tax. It's a shame, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14699	I would ask you, there are five applications: Mr. Ivković, Mr. Deretic, Mr. Vukic, Mr. Jovanovic. Please remember first what we're here for, because this is how we can dance all the time to make it to the evening. Please complete this cycle of replication with so far reported and continue work on the agenda. Mr. Ivkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14700	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I must by no time remind all of us in this room that we are obliged to maintain the dignity of this House, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but also the dignity of the citizens who elected us. We were not elected by the citizens to bid on who was in the coalition, who stole what, who earned what, who got what, who chose us here to do the essential job in the field of legislation and to make laws that would help Serbian citizens to live better, to make the economy work and to increase the standard. As for the charges that the Socialist Party of Serbia joined the coalition with the DSS or with other parties, for the record -- the Socialist Party of Serbia still on its main committee in October 2000 made a decision that the future would take its stand alone in the elections and the end. If that coalition had been in place, then the DSS would have voted to withdraw the law and we wouldn't have any problems and spending taxpayers' money sitting here for five days because of bad law. However, as I went out because of the replica, it is obvious that the dignity of this congregation was threatened by the discussions that were behind this speaker this morning, but also by the insinuations and certain evidence that existed. The most common thing would be for this assembly would be to repeat the vote on the Labour Act, and then we would be at peace.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14701	The word is Mr. Deretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14702	Dear President, dear colleagues, Mr Nikolic transferred to his indictment and mentioned my name, that I was not present at the quorum. I've been there all day, I haven't moved from my place, and it can be established on an electronic video, and so do fellow MPs who sit around me two or three rows. I'm just saying that when someone's accusing someone, they should first have a basis for it without making false accusations to the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14703	Mr. Vukic, then Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14704	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, just for telling the truth, and just because he said the facts, some of them got angry here and thought it was time for them to come out and say everything they truly, honestly think, and most truthfully to show the public what they're feeling, and that's nice, that's very nice. A copy came out here that talked about who did what in life and who didn't. First, unlike him, I graduated from school with the greatest success, I graduated from college with the highest grades, and he only saw the college in photos and postcards - greetings from Belgrade. The man came out here, and his name is Dragan Markovic, imagine his nickname is Palma. You can imagine which people wear the nickname of Palm. The man came out for a pay phone and said someone got something somewhere, and now he's driving around in a wooden corner, quoting him. Yeah, he even transferred it to me to ride in such a "South" and I'm not hiding it. Even the "South" is not mine, it is official and belongs to the Serbian Radical Party. I don't have my own car and that's the difference between you and me. I don't have it, but you do, because you've been selling coal for 10 years. It's not the Resavica alone with the military that closes the deal, it's you who'll be the middleman of the deal. That's why you can have that kind of money, and that's why in the most expensive jeeps you can drive around and you can visit all of Serbia in that way. That's why you have to vote for Djindjic's laws, as you voted for Djindjic's government. Don't talk about morality, because there's a letter coming from Pink TV, I don't want to talk all the details, it might not be right, but I'll say one detail, signed by Goran Vesic and said - don't forget your obligation to play Pelevic twice a week. It's your relationship, it's your opposition, so you know. Let them come, and let them say whether it's true or not. That's true, that's true. Don't talk about research, because what you've shown is a lie. It's not a public opinion survey, but they say what the perspectives of political parties are, so by the way, they gave the SPS 0.1%, imagine, a party that is big (whatever I think about them) gave 0.1%, a SPI 0.3%, and they gave us, I don't know why, about 6, 7, 8, I don't even know exactly what we've earned so much per cent in the perspective, but it has no connection to the real, even the research that's all set up. That's no problem at all. Don't you, who are the worst criminals in Serbia, tell someone about honesty.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14705	Mr. Wolfie, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14706	Are you giving me a warning? Are you giving me a warning? You gave me a warning, you took my money because I told them the truth in the face, because I'm not afraid of them, because I'm not worried about them having kickboxers or I don't know who, because I'm not afraid of their jeeps, of their guns, of their stories, of who they faked the will and who took the fortune; because I can go out and say it, and that's why you gave me the warning. You didn't warn them while they were lying and talking. When someone tells them something, it's got to be a warning. Come out and say it's not true. Pelevic can go on all TVs, on BK, on RTS, a message comes from Vesic or someone. I understand Vesic, a man must provide the majority for himself; let Goran Vesic (with whom I was the biggest political opponent since college), we have known each other since then, we know each other for 13-14 years) say that I am lying. In front of the whole Serbian public, I say it, in front of the MPs. Come out, Mr. Vesic, and tell me if I'm telling the truth or lying. Tell them whether or not you use them in such a way that they are known to be your MPs, not the MPs of the Serb people who allegedly chose them here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14707	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14708	Mr. Wolfie, I can't say you're lying because I'm afraid I'm gonna get a warning, and that would mean I have to pay the fine, and you're not telling the truth. You were the Minister of Information and you know very well how it affects the media, so don't teach me, I can only learn from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14709	Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14710	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, you have seen that there is no one truth, that here every parliamentary group has its own political stance and that political position it judges politically. What I said about the Serbian Unity Party, I said publicly about this pay phone, and I'll always do it again. The party came out of the country's ten-year chaos and is partly responsible for what happened to us, but much less than you from the Serbian Radical Party that you look like. As for the truth and the search for truth, it is best that we apply the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, respect the decision of the Administrative Committee and return to voting on this law in particular. Otherwise, if we are looking for the truth, then we will first have to see if it is true that the Democratic Party of Serbia will be abstained during the vote on the law in principle, or if it is true that they voted against, as well as SPS MPs, the Serbian Radical Party and the Serbian Unity Party. Is it true that you care about Article 105, as you have said, or that we are contorting the Republic government because we have replaced the personnel and Obren Joksimovic. Is it true that you invited the people to the elections in Kosovo, then led an anti-election campaign and congratulated the election victory, is it true that you quoted here the International Labour Organisation and Deputy Director Bronstein, and then said Bronstein was not a representative of the International Labour Organisation -- a lot of confusion for a responsible place. We voted yesterday, with a close majority of votes, the law in principle passed and I suggest that, in the interest of the Assembly, we continue our work as is done in civilised societies: by voting. And 200 votes ahead of us, you have 200 chances to break this law; go ahead, try.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14711	If we're exhausted, this was a replica of this, here's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14712	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Jovanovic mentioned the Soviet Union in a negative context, and that's why I'm reporting. It's a compliment to me, Mr. Jovanovic, when you say that the Soviet Union has come out of chaos in this country and that we are not a party to your taste. That can only mean plus for the SS. So much for Mr. Chad Jovanovic's opinion. Let me just say, as far as Dragan Markovica-Palma is concerned, he really does trade coal, but there is a branch in this country called trade. It has intermediaries between the manufacturer and the end consumer. Is it inhuman, if someone is involved in trafficking in a legal way and has been declared the best private manager in Serbia and Yugoslavia twice in 1995 and 1996? It is a man who has worked since he was 15, works honestly and honestly, a man who lives in the village of Končarevo near Jagodina and who gets about 95% of the votes in the local elections in his village. When peasants vote for their neighbor, for their peasant, it best says what kind of man he is, an honest man, a respected man, a man who is indeed an example of a true Serb host. Please don't call these honorary SS deputies criminals, it's really not fair. It's doctors, it's science doctors, it's engineers, it's pensioners, it's supposed to be a shame to anyone who talks about the SS in that context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14713	This is the first replica, not the replica of the replica, but the replica because it replicated Jovanovic, and now I'm going out on him. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've established how easy it is, even when the truth from this pay phone is said to be offended, and it's nice to hear how hard the charge is because someone's driving the other south. That's what the MP said. That's the scariest part, because I'm actually trying to trick the people, that the people think I'm fair enough to get an official car, which "audi" or something. That's the craziest accusation I've ever heard in my life and the funniest accusation anyone's ever made. If I had a better car, thank God, I'd drive it. It would be nice if you gave the SRS a better car, you got them, you got them, you got them, and I'll drive that better car right away. As far as anyone can learn from whom, I just want to say that I told the whole truth and everyone knows it. On that television, I happen to have my wife working there, there are a lot of others, and for that -- it won't be long -- don't look forward, don't work, it's there formally. Alexander Vukic's wife can't exactly work there and edit the news, but I don't whine, I guess that's normal, and it goes without saying. There's something else I want to tell you, about honesty and about it, there's been a lot of talk here and a lot of writing in the paper, and when the DOS didn't know what they were going to do, then you tell the radicals -- they are, they are, they are, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, I'm glad you finally agreed with them, and I'm glad to hear it from everyone, not some of them hiding, some people who won't say it, and some people want to say it. It's good for everyone to say that and see if you have anything. Why aren't we in jail? We'd have been hanged on the bandits if they had found something. They wouldn't have put us in jail. As I can see, there are none. You're the people who, both the doctors of science and the actual doctors of science, who graduated from colleges with the highest success, who were honest and honorable hosts, called thieves. You called Tomislav Nikolic a thief, whom you supported in the election campaign, in the previous election campaign. You called the most honest people by those names. Then you get angry when someone tells you what they are, like some of you yesterday from the Democratic Party led you down the halls not to vote. Honorable people call it that! It should really be a shame, if they have cheeks, those who are able to be so honest, honest, and, as you can see, unsullied people (because they would hang by the bandits if they were) in such a way attack. The SRS is a party without compromise, a party fighting for the interests of its people, a party of honest and honorable people and, as the president said, its time is yet to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14714	I think we've exhausted the circle of replicas and reminded ourselves of what we need to decide. We are actually deciding on the objection of the president of the DSS parliamentary group that by seeing the television footage of yesterday's session, it was found that there was an abuse of parliamentary cards in the sixth place in the second row, on my left and on your right. He requests that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly be established in accordance with Article 117. Do you want the tape? Can you play the video? The tape was released to the presidents of the parliamentary groups, as well as to the vice presidents of the assembly. I don't know if there's any technical possibilities to release the video to the MPs. Here, let's get that answer and we'll move on. Yeah, at the moment of the vote, not that scheme. Before we get an answer, Mr. Jovanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14715	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to ask you again not to make it out of the circus assembly. The video shown to us very clearly shows that MPs of the Democratic Party in the second and third lines cannot vote in their benches. In the same way, the Republic Government was elected, in the same way elected the President of the Assembly, the Martian, with the Vice-Presidents of the Assembly; and each decision was made in the same way. Why are we here now to watch television footage and voting process, when it is clear that it cannot be voted in the parliamentary benches of the Democratic Party's MPs. You all know it well and those who once again tried to deceive the public know it. Is it necessary for every MP of Parliament to pass by the second and third order in order to see that MPs of the Democratic Party cannot vote in their parliamentary benches? The assembly voted yesterday, there was a dilemma, the dilemma was more concretely removed by the Administrative Committee, because it found that there was, and an electronic and manual, verifiable record of the presence of MPs in the hall, and what does that mean now? Let's make a clear proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14716	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14717	I don't know why Mr. President, you're bringing us here into disrepute and why you don't respect the Rules of Procedure which is absolutely clear on this issue. If the card is misused (resect this secretary... ).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14718	The secretary is calm, as far as I can tell. The MPs are restless.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14719	He's calm, he just circled you that the MP who was in Thessaloniki was there. He's calm - 250 MPs for him today solves what happens to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14720	Please transfer the card from a place where there are no MPs and have that man sit down. You can't sit there and vote in the back row. Don't play the circus to prove that what's on the video is invisible. Look at the video of you sitting here. ) People, you will mostly find it visible, and on this you will plead...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14721	It's something I know. I know you, and I voted for you here. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14722	Shame on you. Shame on you. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we need to follow the Rules of Procedure, which is to ask the President of the National Assembly if the vote on the labour law has been annulled in principle. Article 117 does not provide for the Assembly to decide whether the use of the card has been committed. It is predicted that if there was an abuse, the vote will be annulled. It was all left on the appraisal of Mr. President of the National Assembly. The president of the National Assembly has been unequivocally informing us for two days that MP Novakovic was not there. Then why, Mr. President, are you distracting the entire assembly? What does this mean now? You either cancel the vote or you don't cancel the vote? It's just up to you, it's not up to the Administrative Board at all, or the National Assembly. I know that the billmaker has provided the majority for now and that in the re-election most likely the law will be voted on in principle. God of health, you have no nerve to endure a five-day debate on amendments. There will be a moment for the Assembly to adopt an amendment that completely changes the meaning of the law. Then the question will be, what does the congregation look like and where this is leading us? So I ask you, Mr. President, to decide to cancel yesterday's vote and to put the bill back on the table again in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14724	Yesterday's decision has been withdrawn, and this is evident from the stenographic notes, and we're going to come forward today. We are left to plead in accordance with our own security and according to the facts that we all have, whether there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure of Rule 117. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 107, against 78, with 19 abstention, not 28, a total of 232 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has assessed that there has been no damage to the 117 members of the Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MPs Sladjan Mijajlovic, Slobodan Adzic and Srdjan Petrovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14725	Dear Mr. Chairman, in situations like this, it's easy to conclude that a man can really question the electronic system. I ask that the presence of MPs in the hall be checked by counting, because it is amazing that 222 MPs are registered before the vote, that at the moment of the vote there are 232, and now there are 214. They're out. ) People, it is a very serious matter, and I propose that the presence of MPs be checked by counting in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14726	The first amendment was submitted by Sladjan Mijajlovic, Slobodan Adzic and Srdjan Petrovic. The government accepted the amendment by proposing a legal-technical editorial of the text of the amendments. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs adopted the amendment, with a legal-technical editorial proposed by the Government, agreed by the representatives of the amendments at the Committee's session. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with a legal -- technical editorial proposed by the Government, is legally possible. I realize that this amendment, with the legal technical regulation proposed by the government, has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does an admancer want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14727	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP group of the SRS has, I repeat, written the amendments on the basis of its programme, not cooperating with anyone and not fulfilling anyone's wishes. It turned out after several parliamentary groups had a very similar position on the draft labour law, as did the SRS parliamentary group. The basic amendment is, in fact, part of the amendment relating to the position of the first member of the bill, which is that the word "or" is replaced by "i". So the collective contract, the labour rule and the labour contract are an integral part of the regulation of the rights and obligations of employers and workers. I think neither you nor the citizens of Serbia should overexplain why -- and the collective contract, not -- or the collective contract. In this regard, there was a major controversy, and it is in fact being decided whether this law protected only employers' rights or whether the state is ready to propose a labour law to protect the minimum rights of workers, especially those of workers who will be hit by employers' organisations and businesses, its technical capabilities or its financial opportunities, and in the worst case, it will remain without a job. Of course, in paragraph 1 it is unnecessary to write - rights, obligations and responsibilities are governed by this law and special laws in accordance with ratified international obligations. Of course it's in line with the obligations. The question arises - if you leave this formulated position 1, will these rights, obligations and responsibilities be regulated exclusively so far by ratified obligations or this opens a map of blast that each of the next ratified agreements represents our obligation without entering the Labour Act. If this is a labour law and it is subject to ratified international obligations, then it should not be written; and it cannot be the basis for respect for future ratified obligations, because they must enter as amendments and additions to the Labour Act. This enrollment looks like some investment or evidence to someone abroad that, behold, Serbia finally accepts the ratification of international obligations. It doesn't mean anything. Whoever reads the Labour Act will know whether we did it in accordance with ratified obligations or not, whether it's legal or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14728	Thank you. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14729	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, are in fact this 103th member and, in part, the 105th essence of this law that broke the spear. This revolutionary and radical change in relation to existing labour legislation stems from the attitude of the parliamentary majority of the Republic government, which is actually destroying the concept of the communist order of economic life. We can't order an employer's labour law to negotiate with his employee because this is no longer a working-class society, a society where there is no one but a working-class company. We can order the employer to negotiate with his employees, we can introduce arbitration and all this is done in Article 138 of the proposed labour law. What is serious is the opposition of Serbian Radical Party MPs, these are the obligations arising from internationally accepted conventions, and among other things the conventions governing labour legislation in our society. But we have adopted the amendment of a parliamentary group to meet this position and it is very precise that the rights, obligations and responsibilities laid down in Article 1 are governed by a collective contract or regulation on work, and in the following text - a general act or contract on work, in accordance with the law, the existing law, and in accordance with the approved international conventions. We have received a letter from the Federal Secretariat for Labour which undertakes to bring federal legislation into line with the Republic; we are forced to follow the logic of life in the Republic of Serbia and to adapt the laws to the needs of our society, even in situations where the federal parliament does not function. We can cross the paradox that the federal parliament is unable to appreciate the reality of life on 29 November as a state holiday, but we cannot go so far as to tolerate the non-functionality of the federal parliament in a situation where we have a completely unregulated area of labour legislation. So the important question is the obligation of a collective contract and we don't agree to such a thing, because you cannot legally oblige an employer that he must sign a collective contract with his employees unless such a thing is realistic. It is required under the law to negotiate and in this we are fully in line with the International Labour Organisation and the working legislation of all modern European societies. I believe we can make a deal. As for the ratification and validation of international conventions, the labour law and the amendments we accepted, we met with those intentions of those who dispute the law. But we can't meet the intention of an employer making a commitment to a collective contract, because it's actually a return in a time that's been overcome by everything, and, among other things, by the economic dynamics and the life that he's been following.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14730	Thank you. Mr Branislav Ivkovic, representative of the SPS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14731	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPS MPs will support all amendments submitted by MPs to article 1 of this draft labour law, simply because the collective contract is not a communist fluid. If a collective contract is a communist fluid, then all we see is that it's happening in Italy, England, France, America is a pure communist event. As far as we know, all trade unions have and what strength they have in these countries; there is the obligation of employers, or recommendations, to negotiate and conclude contracts, primarily in the field of earnings, but also in the area of employment and labour interruptions. There's something else. These are the rights of workers acquired during this ten-year period, for which many say it is black, and they are precisely in that the union, as a working class representative, makes a collective contract with border areas of operation and thus regulates at one general level the position of workers in the process of work, primarily earning, employment and cancellation. With this bill and the relativisation of the collective contract as such, in Article 1, the rights of workers are effectively abolished, because it decidently writes - the labour rule or, collective agreement. It is clear that no employer will enter into bargaining over a collective contract because there is a dictionary - or, and will certainly be defined as - the labour rule, where he will prescribe everything himself. That's how they're gonna put a worker in a much worse position than it is today. It is clear that this member, as proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, has a significantly reduced working class. There is no way through the union to generally define its position and the employer through the labour rules to go to one detail of the position of workers and the relationship between the employer and the worker. Since the Privatisation Act has already been passed, as it is, it is clear that employers will behave like cowboys and that, unless an amendment to Article 1 is adopted, workers will be very difficult in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14732	The word is from Mr Dragan Milovanovic, Minister of Labour and Employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14733	Dear People's MPs, the question of collective bargaining was often mentioned when it came to this law. If you've read this law well, and I believe it is, you can see that the whole law is designed to focus on collective bargaining. A large number of members, the whole chapter is dedicated to collective bargaining. The government's intention is to encourage collective bargaining and to sign collective agreements. What's impossible is getting someone to sign something they don't want. In this case, the proposal proposed by the MPs, when it comes to this collective bargaining member, goes in this direction to make the state bound by employers and trade unions to sign a collective agreement. That's practically impossible. On the other hand, the insinuation to abolish collective bargaining and to abolish collective agreements is absolutely not true. Unlike Mr. Ivkovic, I know very well what collective bargaining is and I have signed several collective agreements, I have worked as a worker and I know very well what the rights of collective agreements are. The adoption of the DSS amendment has amended Article 1 which now reads: "Legals, obligations and responsibilities based on work are governed by this law and special laws, in accordance with approved international conventions. The rights, obligations and responsibilities referred to in Article 1(1) shall be governed by a collective contract, or by a labour rule (hereinafter referred to as the General Act), or by a labour contract. "It is normal to stand "or, because it must be possible for an employer, who does not have unions in his firm, and a large number of these private companies do not have trade unions, to sort of regulate the issue of work in his company. In that labour rule, it is said, it cannot be worse than a collective contract. And, on the other hand, when it's said that collective bargaining is abolished, to remind myself that we've extended the rights to collective bargaining, that we've given the opportunity to now sign collective agreements at the level of municipalities, cities and provinces. I will remind you of Article 178 of the Law, which says very clearly: "The provisions of a collective agreement which is in force on the day of entry into force of this law, which are not contrary to this law, remain in force until the collective agreement is concluded in accordance with this law". That means all collective agreements continue to apply. In Article 138, employers are again referred to, and the union is given additional opportunities to negotiate, to strengthen negotiations, so I think that with this adopted amendment, proposed by the DSS, we have an absolutely rounded question of collective bargaining and collective agreements, a member, in my opinion, should no longer be controversial.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14734	Thank you. He has the word Mr Branislav Ivkovic [[replication right]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14735	We know the government has accepted the DSS amendment, but with that, it's left with the words "or." As soon as it is said to be governed by a collective contract, or by a labour rule, or by a labour contract, it is clear that the employer, especially that employer, who in the sudden privatisation, in a limited period of time, will come to a large capital, which he may never come to except in the country of Serbia, to go towards the labour rule, as a labour contract that he prescribes, and to bypass the collective contract. So, you have to be clear, you who will vote against this amendment, you end the collective agreement, that's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14736	He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic, representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that the legislator's intention to figure out a collective contract in law, but to practically be abolished. This is evident, for example, from Article 3 which reads: "A employer who has not concluded an individual and collective contract, rights, obligations and responsibilities under work shall be governed by the Labour Regulation or the Labour Contract, in accordance with the law and other regulations". You know, there's a discipline in horseback sports where the pins are skipped, but when you pass the law, you can't skip the Constitution, and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 35 of Section 3 reads, "Employees can stop working against their will, under conditions and in a manner established by law and collective agreement". It's a constitutional category, people. So the collective contract is an obligation for every employer, not to negotiate a collective contract, but a collective contract. You're saying the government can't force the employer to sign a collective contract. Well, it's an obligation from the Constitution. A government that cannot implement the country's constitution does not exist in the country. Every employer is obliged to sign a collective contract. I'd like to ask you not to do it backwards. Well, it is, if you weren't slaughtering under the tail, as our people would say. First, access the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We can't justify a reform by force -- we'll change the constitution, we don't need a constitution. We have a great constitution. If it wasn't right, you'd be joining his shifts. You cannot go beyond constitutional provisions to pass laws, which you claim are reformable, but are not by the constitution; and that is why there is no Constitutional Court of Serbia. Because I don't think the law professors raised the lawyers to be judges and to steal and lie, but if they were raised properly by the lawyers, then you won't find any judge who would be the judge of the Constitutional Court, and that this provision tells you that it's in accordance with the constitution. No man can, it says otherwise in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Don't play with it. I repeat, we will have one day the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. The collective agreement must be binding under the Labour Act, or you do not pass the Labour Act until you change the Serbian Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14738	Since no one has answered the floor anymore, I would like to put the amendments submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic to article 1. Please state by voting. For 57, against 120, there were no abstentions, there was no 9 vote, a total of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word Mr. Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14739	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted this amendment as a graduate lawyer, who has spent most of his working life just in the working legislation and in the application of labour legislation. And, on the other hand, I wouldn't even go out on this amendment, but simply, if you saw me and everyone in this room could probably make sure I didn't file this amendment as a criminal, or something like that, but as a graduate lawyer. In Article 1(2), I proposed that the words "or" be deleted and replaced by the words "i", for the simple reason that I consider that an individual legal act, which is a labour contract, cannot be changed by general acts, such as a labour rule or a collective contract. So there's always a specificity in every company. When contracts are concluded with individual employees, there are certain specificities, which are generally provided for in the general act, i.e. in the labour regulations and collective agreements. That's why I think the obligation and that it should be made possible to, in addition to the labour rules, in addition to the collective agreement, there is an obligation, that is, it exists, but that the labour contract is being concluded. So we would have to accept that collective agreements must exist, because those employers who don't sign it, break the laws, break the Constitution and the country's positive regulations. Someone here said that there are no organised union organisations in certain employers - the law also says that where there are not enough workers to organise a union organisation, they can join employees with other employers and create a common union organisation that can fight for their rights. For this reason, I appeal again to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14740	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to Article 1 tabled by MP Petar Petrovic. For 41, against 100, a abstentioned one, did not vote 23, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladimir Garčević submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14741	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, respected ministers, by the coming of this law, and by the previous laws, it was clear to me that everything that was to be done by Mr. Prime Minister with German businessmen, would be done to alienate what we have, not to leave workers with the possibility of protecting their rights and, ultimately, to try to break the working class, to create as many unions as possible, and thus to sell out what we have left. They say a collective contract doesn't need or, in other words, we're going to make what's more favourable to the employer who cheaply buys this poor girl of ours, so we're going to cash it in nicely. We know a lot of people who work in the Serbian government who will evaluate, and the agencies that we will hire, how they will assess that property, so, since we don't have 70% in sales, workers have no rights. We'll make one seven or eight unions, and the one that's our government or the minister's union, they'll close the deal, and the rest of them have nothing to do with it. I suggested that this part of the text, when the "general act" is mentioned, should be deleted. It's certain that the rule can't be identified by the contract. The regulation is passed by the employer, and the contract is concluded at a higher level and it is binding on all employers to carry out the conclusion of the contract. They say the government will do it transparently. If it's not to protect the interests of workers, I can see that and that's how it's been done for a long time. On the other hand, I want to appeal that these thefts that take place with voices, attacks on education, attacks on the judiciary, attacks on the military, all attacks here, stop once and leave all these institutions alone to do their jobs, because we all ended them or participated in them. Such a legal proposal, which reduces rights, eliminates a collective contract, goes to the expense of workers. I hope that one moment we will come to power, very quickly, and that the SPS, in accordance with its programme definitions, will, such a law that is harmful to workers, undo and come to a law that will respect both workers and employers, but also come up with a solution that is acceptable to all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14742	The word is Mr. Toma Busetic, as a representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14743	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this entire first member is not good. The president of the parliamentary group Tomislav Nikolic noted that in this first position it is unnecessary to bind to international conventions. Simply, all our laws should have a basis in the Constitution of their own country, not in some ratified international conventions, especially because our entire current labour legislation is based on ratified international conventions. Why do we insist on accepting this amendment submitted by MP Vladimir Garcevic? Simplely, a collective contract is not a mandatory institute. He's academic. That means he can, and he doesn't have to. The outcome will be - not necessarily. Why is a collective contract important? It is important because it regulates three of the most important issues: employment of workers, layoffs of workers and earnings. When we talked about hiring, it wasn't just about the Institute of Advertising. Perhaps even more important is the organisation's obligation to report a seat to the Employment Service. When we talk about firing, Article 103 makes it clear that a worker can be fired whenever the employer wants: and because of the results of work; and because of suddenly established ignorance or incompetence, and because of ugly behavior, etc., which is unacceptable. Finally, when it comes to profit itself, the employer will be able to determine his own earnings. It will always be able to determine a small profit in one sharp competition, where there will be a large number of unemployed workers, to get jobs from others, not those currently working in those factories. I think it is necessary to accept this amendment and all these amendments proposed by the previous MPs, these three amendments, because it will still help to change the most important substance that we stand for.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14744	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you are, Mr Nikolic, representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14745	Since there have been three amendments to almost identical content and since this is the last amendment to Article 1 that we are discussing is very important, it is very important and it defines the fate of the law. I know it's impossible to convince you to vote differently. The trenches are excavated, no one even thinks about what's good in the bill anymore, only thinking about what's fate, and MP groups are already identifying themselves, even coalitions are being made for the next election. I must say that the explanation of the proposing - the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which also rejects the amendments submitted by the SRS and these other two parliamentary groups, is, at the very least, cynical. The university of collective agreement explains the government's desire to protect workers, by turning the thesis completely, and says "because it doesn't have to be a collective contract, we have to anticipate other ways to protect workers' rights, so that workers don't get completely disproved. "The government is obliged to respect the Constitution and the laws and to say that a collective contract is required. Then he doesn't have to protect some other lower acts of workers' rights, if he's already protecting them by what's prescribed by the Constitution. The collective contract is prescribed by the Constitution and there is no more story. I am convinced, and the SRS will insist that all of our further debate is immaterial. The vote on the draft law has been annulled in principle. It was annulled by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You later found that he did not harm the Rules of Procedure when he said it had not been annulled, so that we still remain in force to annul the vote in principle. The assembly is wasting time, and you can continue this session and we will participate in the work. We want to fully express the SRS' position on this bill. It is essential to continue to talk about this when the vote in principle has been annulled and it is time for you to consider whether you need a more determined, firm president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14746	Please return to the topic, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14747	I was just about to commend you, my dear lady, and suggest that you be the president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14748	Don't propose and praise me, but get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14749	Because this -- step forward, step back -- certainly wouldn't happen. I can feel the shrubs on my back and I know you're running a session of the National Assembly. It's not the blinks on the front, it's the back. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, several members of the law define the law. Everything else is mostly a deterioration of the conditions under which workers will work in factories. This is one of the important things. If you skip this obstacle, and don't think about it as your conscience tells you to, you're drawing on yourself a great sin. I know you bid on the number of employees who are in favour, who are against it. Many workers are against this bill, and those you convince now that the law is good, when it starts to apply on their backs, will soon say that the law is not good. So vote in favour of this amendment, regardless of why you did not vote in favour of the Serbian Radical Party amendment. We want the law to be fixed, and I call on one of the amendment applicants next time there's a vote on the bill in principle, to be in the O.R., not to run away from the O.R., and then to come to defend his amendment. The law needs to be fought both in principle and in amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14750	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Vladimir Garčević as member of the 1st Parliament. For 46, against 107, there were no abstentions, not 19, a total of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. Moving to Article 2. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? The word is from MP Srdjan Petrovic, representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14751	The Honored Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, amendment by First People's MP Dragan Markovic is one of the amendments the DOS parliamentary group has agreed with the union. Its essence is to complete Article 2 of this law, and in spite of foreign citizens, words are added: "and persons without citizenship". It is one of 21 amendments that the government has not adopted, and the DOS parliamentary group has agreed with the union. The Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will vote in favour of the amendment and all other amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14752	The word is Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14753	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, since I am the president of the DOS parliamentary group, let me, however, know what amendments we have agreed with the unions, which are amendments that have not come upon our support. The Democratic Party of Serbia, which also held talks with union representatives, may have reached the agreement, but the agreements arising from the DOS meeting and union representatives are agreements the Republic government supported and which in the form of an amendment have practically become an integral part of the Law. Very clearly, and I would only ask you, since you know that we have reached an agreement with the unions, to say whether you were present at that meeting at which that agreement was reached.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14754	Replica, MP Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14755	The Democratic Party of Serbia has accepted the DOS and trade union agreement. You all know that. The DOS and union agreement lasted five or six hours. The Democratic Party of Serbia then made an agreement with the unions the next day, and then added two more amendments to the deal. They're on Article 22, and they're on the famous, controversial article 105. It's a clear math, the government has accepted twenty amendments, 50 have been agreed, everyone knows that, and once again about informing the public. What is important, the Democratic Party of Serbia will stick to the deal, not only will it vote for the amendments proposed by the Democratic Party of Serbia, but will vote for amendments from other parties, and there are amendments to the DOS party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14756	The word is Mr. Dragan Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14757	They are constantly operating on the story of 50 amendments, and 30 amendments have been discussed and you know it very well. Most of these amendments have been accepted, most of the amendments proposed by the Democratic Party of Serbia have been accepted, and this amendment, which has been proposed here, essentially changes nothing, because in the first position of this member, it says: "The provisions of this law apply to employees working in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, whether domestic or foreign legal, or natural persons". So they apply to everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14758	Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I would like to put the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Markovic on Article 2. For 50, against 80, one abstention, they did not vote 34, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14759	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if an amendment to the 1st deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, Tomislav Nikolic, had been accepted, this amendment would have been pointless. It would be good if it was done. Unfortunately, the parliamentary majority did not want to accept it. Therefore, Article 3(1) and (2) of the Proposer provided that an employer who did not conclude an individual collective agreement, rights, obligations and responsibilities on the basis of work shall be governed by the labour or labour contract, in accordance with the law and other regulations. The rules on work are laid down by the employer. What's this about? For people, for citizens, for people who don't have to understand everything to the point -- to try to explain. It is our proposal that some kind of agreement must be reached between the parties concerned, between the partners, that there must be some type and compromise, not exclusively a direct dictatorship and an employer's order for all employees. One individual legal act adopted by the employer can fully regulate the rules of conduct, employment relations of employees, and it decides literally everything. There's no kind of responsibility, no limitations, no laws, no laws. It is he who decides for himself the fate of all those who work in a particular collective. It was something that had to be different, it seems to me, although we from the Serbian Radical Party never liked to court anyone, not to the unions, not to anyone else, not to the demagogues to come out of this assembly pay phone so that someone would think, that's how nice we are than we are, and now we're going to invest, even though we shouldn't. I think that this amendment should be accepted, and those who have already set out the amendments they will vote for, which they will not, so that they can hear such arguments and I don't think there are any different arguments. This is proof that, in fact, the hands of employers are being completely freed -- is this being prepared for a future time, when they will have opportunities under the World Bank's orders, as Minister Milovanovic said in his interview today because of some 80 million as they promised if this law was passed. I'm asking, what's their bill if they give it 80 million, then how many million workers we're going to fire (although we have only a few million residents) so that they can pay us for such a favor, as well as for the adoption of such a law. One of the things that's going on here is this particular working rule. That's the point. We have to prevent it, not because we're not going to get 8, 10, or 80 million, but because we're going to prevent a much bigger accident of our people, a much bigger accident of our workers, a much bigger accident of our people, and that's our obligation. They didn't give it, I mean that condition, for free, they're not the stupid ones to say -- we'll give you 80 million, as the minister said, I read in the paper, they can say it's not true, and they give it away for free. Free cheese is only in the mouse hunt. They give it to destroy our production, to destroy our factories, and to have all kinds of production and factories doing what you did in the flag, or in other places where you acted in a similar way. So fire 70%-80% of the workers; have nothing to complain about, have no one to complain about, no second-degrees, no nothing, destroy and destroy everything. It is something that seems to me that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would have to pre-warn, it would have to ensure a different proportion of MPs because they were elected to this parliament, to this assembly, however demagogue it sounds now. We're all elected, not just us from the SRS, but the others, because one part of the voters is bigger somewhere, and somewhere smaller, thought they'd represent him in the best possible way, defend their interests and protect their rights. This only protects the rights of small groups of people, protects the rights of those you make the conditions to come to eat and destroy domestic production in utopia; which should drive the workers out of work; what they will tell the workers you haven't done as well as before; or, as you say -- you can't pay me as little as I can do. I know a lot of those who work and more than we do here, much more, and more serious and responsible work, and they have much less income. Since I have already been recruited today for some 3,000 dinars, I will get off the phone, but I call on the MPs to accept this amendment and I think that Serbia's citizens, especially workers, will still be much easier if this amendment is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14760	Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard from the Minister of Labour that he spent many years in a union organization and that he signed three collective agreements, border contracts, or what I know, in the end, it doesn't matter. It is to be expected that a man who has spent the entire working life as a union worker protects the rights of workers in this assembly, fights for their rights, to say: I understand completely how workers will feel, but I am a member of the government who has passed this law. It's impossible to convince one union activist for the night to completely eliminate workers' rights. Here is Article 3, I warned that it is about Article 1 and that this government is being exposed to Serbian citizens and it says -- from now on, read further in this bill, there is only an employer for us. What does Article 3 say? - "Employer who has not concluded an individual collective contract," and where does he have the right not to conclude an individual collective contract, "law, obligations and responsibilities under work is governed by the labour rule or the labour contract, in accordance with the law and other regulations". What's the fate of the labour rule? Article 2 - "Worker's Rulesman Brings an Employer." What is the fate of the labor contract? Article 22 - "When there is a change of employer (jointing, joining, division, sale of enterprises, etc.) the rights and obligations of the labour contract are transferred to the new employer, with the written consent of the employee and the new employer." So there's no right to work. Article 3 - No labour rights, no employers' rights. Labour law doesn't have the rights of workers, it has the rights of employers. It may have to be implemented, but it can't be done by one anti-work law. Scissors can't cut the situation in Serbia and say -- until today it's like this, and from today it starts different. You can't do that. You're going to cause fractures in hundreds of thousands of families. How many employers? Here, a year: how many employers came into the new democratic and reform power in Serbia and asked to participate in capital in our economy, asked to buy factories at any price, for a dollar, for a mark, and how many of these employers... Were they waiting for this law? Give me a list of factories that are interested and await this law to enter these factories to restore production; give me what obligations they have, how many labour forces, how many workers in these factories will remain; give me what production program will be in these factories and how many product units will be produced annually. Give us some argument that this law raises the economy to its feet. The fact that employers can now read our labour law and say, "Here, Serbia has listened to us to pass a good labour law -- that doesn't mean anything to us." We need Serbia to produce it. I'm still convinced, however much you've brought down on your knees in the economy, that we can rely on our own strengths. You say he can't. Let's see. We cannot ignore our strength without the one you rely on. What are you turning this country into? Will the worker be a hired worker in Serbia? They will: to see which employer, to see what salary he has; to see how much work experience and life experience he needs to retire; to see what level of social and health care you will provide him, and then to talk here as people who care about the fate of the state and care for the fate of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14762	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 35, against 107, the two abstentions, were not voted 20, a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MPs Sladjan Mijajlovic, Slobodan Adzic and Srdjan Petrovic. The government accepted the amendment by proposing a legal-technical editorial of the text of the amendments. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs adopted the amendment, with a legal and technical editorial proposed by the Government, which was agreed by the representatives of the amendments at the Committee's session. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with the legal technical regulation proposed by the Government, is legally possible. I find this amendment, with the legal technical order proposed by the government, has become an integral part of the bill. To Article 3. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Petrovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the bearer want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14763	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have suggested that Article 3 after Article 2 of Article 2 add a new position 3 which reads as follows: "Work inspection gives consent to the Labour Regulation". The proposed amendment would ensure that the rules on work brought by employers comply with the law and collective agreement. In this sense, my suggestion is also given to the proper provision of this law. What would this mean in practice? In practice, it would mean that the employer would have to make a proposal, or when he adopts a labour rule, to give him an insight into the labour inspection, which would be required to verify whether that labour rule is in accordance with the law and collective agreement. In this way, if the inspection gave consent, then it would no longer have to go on the ground and control certain regulations, whether or not they are applied. I mean, she'd go out in the field, but she'd be easier off if she went through a work rule like that before she got here. This way, the inspection comes out on the ground and determines that some of the regulations on work are not in conformity with the law or collective agreement, set, as a rule, a time limit within which the employer must comply with his labour rules, so he comes back to exercise control, whether it is consistent, and so indefinitely. There are also criminal provisions. I do not think this should and will not change the reform law or what the legislator thinks that the bill will reform much to make work easier for both employers and labour inspectors.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14764	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 25, against 108, the abstentioned were not voted 30, a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Sladjan Mijajlovic, Slobodan Adzic and Srdjan Petrovic have tabled an amendment proposing to amend the title above Articles 4 and 4. The government, the Labour Committee, the martial arts and social issues have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Zivko Selakovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14765	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. The bill deletes the point and adds the words "except for natural persons, founders of companies and natural persons who perform business or other activities as entrepreneurs in accordance with the law. "Here's the explanation of my proposal. The constitution guarantees the right to work is achieved in a three-way way. Namely, the exercise of this right is done by establishing a working relationship with employers, by performing business and other activities in the form of entrepreneurship and the activity of free professions and by establishing companies, bodies and natural persons in order to acquire profits on the market. Physical persons, founders of companies, cannot be in a working relationship with the societies they founded. It is found to result from the management and ownership powers of the founders and the nature of the working relationship, which is based on the labour contract, the provision of a company law relating to the participation of employees in the management of enterprises and provisions governing the management and management powers of the founders of the undertaking as the holder of property rights in the company. The proposed definition, which is given in this amendment, should take into account the need for the necessary demarcation of the various social miles that can be linked to one person, with the aim that only one social context can be specific to the material and social situation of the individual, which is later regulated by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14766	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 23, against 114 abstentions, there were no 28 votes, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MPs Sladjan Mijajlovic, Slobodan Adzic and Srdjan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become part of the draft law. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MPs Sladjan Mijajlovic, Slobodan Adzic and Srdjan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become part of the draft law. National MPs Sladjan Mijajlovic, Slobodan Adzic and Srdjan Petrovic submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member of the 6a be added after article 6. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become part of the draft law. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Guduric. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14767	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about Article 7. I suggested that instead of a general act, a collective contract be written, for one simple reason, it's some kind of constitutional category, even if it seems that in this country only the constitution doesn't matter. Anything else may be possible somehow, but the constitution doesn't count. We had, in Article 6, said that the union, within the meaning of this law, is an independent and voluntary organisation of employees, educated to achieve and protect collective and personal rights and the interests of employees. In the second point, it was stated that the employers' association, within the meaning of this law, is an association where employers join themselves freely to protect their interests, in accordance with the general acts of the association. During the debate in principle, we listened to some scrupulous explanations and it turns out that the employer would better protect the workers from the unions, so it seems that someone confused some basic things in life. That's what we heard from this pay phone a few times, I just don't know if those who said it actually believe what they're saying or got homework, which is why they need to learn the lesson by heart and here they tell it a few times, counting on when a few times something is said, maybe someone believes it. There was talk from this pay phone in that part, so the minister gave himself the right to say he could do anything in this country. He didn't say anything could, he could do anything. We've seen that we can do anything, we've witnessed these days that we can really do anything. We can't get away with this any longer. Because there's this folk who says that a man scolded his wife about how she tied up a sack of grain, and he had to tie it up nine times to the mill. Gentlemen, we've paid for our commitment, you'll have to pay for your own. So this won't take long because you guys are getting divorced here, both church and state, and you're all DOS. You were playing under that firm. Therefore, when you decide to really disintegrate, then announce it to this Serbia, do not keep lying from this pay phone. So if you were competing -- Milka, if you forgot, remember what you were saying when you were talking to this people -- you can't talk from the same pay phone right now. I'll come out here enough times today, tomorrow, these days, according to all the amendments, while it lasts, you don't have any problems on that side, because simply, if it says so, then the collective contract won't work anywhere. You find me this employer who'll do it on a collective contract, when he's got that "or" that he can do it the way he wants. You find me someone who's bigger than the Pope, so explain it, it's just gonna be hard to explain. After all, as you suggested, as it is adopted, it will be your problem, since it is your law. True, he will love his working world in Serbia, but the problem will be yours because people will know who to stick to or rather, they will know who not to round up next time. I hope in these next elections these aunts won't help round.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14768	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go. There is a word from MP Toma Busetic, the authorised representative of the SPS:
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14769	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we once again want to point out the importance of collective agreements. We also want to point out the big difference between the rules and the collective agreement. The rulebook is in order and signed by the employer himself. And when it comes to collective agreements, if it's a general collective in speech, there's a guarantee of government, and when it comes to individual agreements, then we have trade unions, but it's quite clear why we're going to eliminate collective agreements. Simply, the minister and the government want to make this place clean for foreign employers. Foreign employers will come at least to those profitable firms and all relations in these companies will determine themselves, especially when it comes to firing workers, about profits. According to Articles 103 or 109, they may be fired for organisational and technological changes. When it comes to profits, they also decide for themselves -- which will earn those employees. For example, the privatisation of the cement factory in Popovac is expected at the most recent time. There's now about 400 or 500 marks on average. When a foreign employer comes, he will not give such wages and earnings to the employees. Why would he give them 500 marks if there are, for example, wages in Bulgaria's cement plant 200-300 marks. There's a clear goal and motive for foreign bosses. To them profit is most important, it's the most important thing and they won't give anymore. On the other hand, competition will be very sharp. For example, in Paracino the stand is already over, it is in bankruptcy, competition will be sharp and there will always be those workers who will accept to work for significantly less wages than they are now. Here's a chance for this amendment to be accepted and somehow a collective contract to be left alive.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14770	Anybody else answer for a word? There's a word, Minister Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14771	Just because these classic replacements are being presented here, I have to say, I guess you didn't get a good look at the bill. You are asking that the term "general act" be replaced by "collective contract" in Article 7a, which states very clearly - the term "general act" in this law is a common mark for all collective contracts and for the labour rule. This is very clear - the general act cannot contain provisions giving less rights to employees or establishing more unfavourable working conditions than the rights and conditions laid down in the law. The General Act and the Labour Contract may establish greater rights and more favourable conditions of work than the rights and conditions laid down by law, as well as other rights which are not laid down by law, unless otherwise regulated by law. I think that's very clearly defined.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14772	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 41, against 106, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16, a total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Guduric. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14773	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've read this law, I just wish Mr. Minister had, when he was a unionist, represented the same thesis he represents now as a minister. We're supposed to be the same people, not depending on our function. You have a problem with having to represent one of the laws that the "dads on the outside" gave you to push him out like that. You will cast him out like that, and responsibility will be yours. That's not at all controversial. It's just that time is the best judge, so it's going to be yours very soon, and you're going to be your laws, and so is this... It has nothing to do with the police, is it a colleague... the first serious check will fall because what is not in accordance with the Constitution cannot remain, because one such institution will once exist in this country to assess it. For now, it may not exist with you. Maybe you could convince someone that the Constitutional Court, at the moment you took power, shouldn't exist and maybe you can't make it. But after a year, if you couldn't get him to the constitutional wish you had, he hardly seems to be able to pass that story on to you. However we do these laws, even this one, on the first serious check they won't pass, there won't be, and the only comfort to the citizens of Serbia will be that you won't exist then either.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14774	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 39, against 114, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, a total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Guduric. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word Mr. Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14775	The theme is the same, just to tell you, since you're throwing yourself here with the expression that in this country 50, and some say 60, but agree on how many years, in any case, since 1945, so let's say the government is dark -- if you think that in Serbia the light has turned on with you, then you've made a huge mistake. I don't think the majority of Serbian citizens want that light to turn on with you ever again, because it's the biggest darkness that could have happened to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14776	Anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote and asking the MPs to plead. For 37, against 110, a abstentioned one, was not voted 17, a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14777	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I tabled in front of the SRS parliamentary group is to add a second position in Article 10 after the first position, which will read: "In the course of negotiations for the conclusion of a collective agreement, employees and employers are obliged to respect the existing collective agreement and other acts establishing their rights, obligations and responsibilities". I received an answer from the government and from the board of directors that this is already legally understood, that it is embedded in Article 10. It's a bill of law. However, I really cannot agree with such a finding, and I insist that this amendment be accepted, for the simple reason not only that MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, through the theft of votes in the election of the law, through various manipulations of identification cards, through lies and deceptions that are being made from the Assembly's payphone, have negative experience in the highest legislative body, but also by workers, and above all, will have an army of unemployed, which you are just about to fire. Because if we remember the words of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Zoran Djindjic, who spoke several times, and even with the highest dose of cynicism, said something on state television, which is that for the workers of the flag, all those who in the process so-called. The transitions are running out of work, there is room in the geographical space of Serbia, and there are no factory halls, then I have to ask the MPs of the National Assembly to accept this amendment of the SRS, because we hardly trust you with anything, not workers, specifically taught by the experience of what was going on in Kragujevac in the flag group. Remember what was happening in this hot summer of 2001, when Djindjic's troika, Milovanovic-Djelic-Vlahovic, came to the town of Kragujevac, in the already known "down of hunger", and it seems that under DOS rule will be the whole of Serbia, what did you promise workers? First, how were you when you spoke to them in front of the City Assembly, so you saw in that plebiscitarian statement what about you, Mr. Milovanovic, the workers think. Now, the way you cheated on them then, that's how you cheat them through all the provisions of this law. With what you say you will protect them, you lie and deceive them, first of all, because neither you as a minister nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia have any solution for the army of people you're going to leave without a job. You didn't define in the beginning the category of those who were jobless, unemployed, without talking about not taking into account this legal project at all those who never found employment or those you left out of work; these are people with a tragic destiny, under this authority and under your ministry, and the question is how will they continue to find ways to survive and support their families? We, as MPs of the opposition political party, who are truly the only one in the right sense, are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it always votes and always, while these authorities, will vote against your draft laws, constantly meet with those who are dissatisfied with this kind of government, because of these legal projects. We receive them in our offices in places where we are elected for MPs, in the building of the National Assembly, and we receive their letters. One such letter, Mr. Milovanovic, came to us a few days ago. (Glass from the O.R.: breathe a little bit.) Well, you know, the thing about whether someone's saying what's on the agenda, at what rate they're talking about it, is the skills of a possible one. I'd like to invite any of you to come out for a pay phone, especially all of you who've been grinning for ten months, you don't know what's on the agenda, like. President of the Belgrade City Assembly Executive Board, a gentleman who keeps everything funny. As he shows up on any television, he doesn't get asked by his host, he laughs. There's one expression in our people for that, you know, when someone starts without a reason to laugh, like you're sneering right now. But this isn't funny to Mr. Bogdanovic, it's not funny to the DOS gentlemen, because this man writes the following (of course, I won't read his name because he's asking me to do it, but in addition to this argument I'll read what the gentleman wrote about the Minister's false promises: "As I told you on the phone, my son has been a third-class invalid for more than ten years, with a physical impairment of over 30%, and, well, he's got a solution on paid vacation in the flag." To be honest, I wasn't very surprised, because I know that Milovanovic, Djelic and Vlahovic's lies and frauds have no end and nothing good can be expected of them. Please don't let my name and my son's name get out in public, because so do I, and you well know who the people at the head of the flag are and what they're all prepared for. And at all, what's this so-called. Democratic power, vengeful, ossion and rematchist." This is written to you by the pensioner of the flag group, whose son, contrary to the agreement he signed with you, instead of putting him in protective workshops, which you promised to establish, is being sent to a paid leave, and hundreds of DOS gentlemen, Mr. Bogdanovic, these solutions are being shared these days in the flag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14778	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 40, against 116, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, a total of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Guduric. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're still at the general act and collective agreement, because everything that's written in article 11, it's very nice, except that all this will be prescribed by an employer, and the worker will only have one dilemma -- take it or leave it, without being able to influence it. I'll just say one more sentence, and I'll talk to you and I'll see you in the afternoon. I apologize to my colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group for saying "Mr. Minister" in my second address today. This "sir" does not follow those who curse their father and mother.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14780	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 36, against 117 abstentions, two did not vote eight, a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MPs Sladjan Mijajlovic, Slobodan Adzic and Srdjan Petrovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 51, against 86, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25, a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 12th amendment was submitted by MPs Sladjan Mijajlovic, Slobodan Adzic and Srdjan Petrovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 49, against 87, a abstentioned one, was not voted 27, a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14781	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's about precision. Article 12 reads: "Employee is obliged to perform responsiblely and securely the tasks assigned to him by the employer. "The amendment of the SRS parliamentary group requires that the words "employee" be added: "in the framework of expert training of workers. "What's this about? It is true that the government points us to the reasons set out in the previous amendment, under which the government claims that employers can deploy, although they are also called for in the job contract, as far as I understand it, probably if the worker refuses to perform the tasks assigned to him by the employer. But what does it mean that he is employed to carry out the tasks assigned to him by his employer? How wide is that? It is not said - as part of what they agreed on, within the framework of the labour rules, labour contracts, individual collective agreements, but what kind of contract was concluded by the employer and employees. Suddenly, it's completely wide-ranging that employees have to do what the employer tells them to do. What's the employer gonna tell him he's got to do? Will he then be fired from his job on the basis of Article 103, because perhaps the worker for those jobs he has appointed is not professional enough? But he didn't even make those deals with the employer. You are now empowering the employer to schedule him to do some work. What if he's not an expert, he's not trained, he's not ready to do the job, he didn't even have it in mind when he made the contract? What's this about? You will take over a number of workers, you will conclude with them a work contract, and then the employer will start playing with them like dolls in the end and prove it, and he has the right to Article 103. The law, that they're not professional, that they're not capable and that they're fired from work. This is playing with the Labour Act. Don't just erase all employers' obligations, don't completely undo workers' rights. Find a measure. No measure was found with this article in the draft law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14782	The word is Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14783	Dear colleagues, the respected presidency, this member of the Law can be a good solution, along with this amendment by Mr Nikolic, to compromise on Article 105. The law, the compromise in terms of if the DSS amendment to article 105 passes, and I hope it will pass, because I think most of it has been announced in discussions in principle. The adoption of this amendment would allow the employer to move workers from one job to another, but this amendment regulates this within the framework of expert preparation. So, by adopting this amendment, not by deleting Article 12, and by adopting amendments to Article 105, or by erasing Article 105, we come to an entirely normal situation where the employer can move employees within the framework of a professional arrangement, but he can't abuse it, which was the DSS's intensity when he gave the amendment to delete article 105.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14784	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 67, against 84, abstentions, were not voted by 11, a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14785	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the essence of the position of workers and the unemployed are best viewed in Article 12. "The employee is obliged to perform responsiblely and securely the tasks assigned to him by the employer. "Toma Nikolic made a proposal for a more precise regulation, and I was even more precise, so I said, "Only jobs corresponding to his degree and type of expertise, knowledge and skills can be determined by the employee. "Why? Because there may be great abuses by the employer. For example, a graduate engineer or a graduate economist can be deployed to a place far from his professional training; or a good master at tasks that are below his knowledge; or, second extreme, where you can simply trust certain jobs that employees cannot carry out. I think this amendment should be accepted and it's very correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14786	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 39, against 107, the abstentioned were not voted by 17, a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 14th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Predrag Canovic and Vladimir Garcevic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14787	With this amendment, which I have submitted probably in the same text as the other MP, I ask that the words "age, disability and health" are added in Article 14 after the word "birth" are added in the words "age, disability and health". The government says it does not accept because it refers to Predrag Canovic, because the amendment is not clear enough, especially in the age and disability work. We know that one of the conditions of employment will be age and internship; there will be discrimination with people on the labour market -- 30, 40, 50 years of life, or who have worked for 30 years and who are on the labour market. This amendment would make no difference, only leading to one of the factors, age, not being an obstacle for a worker to be employed, in this regard being in an equal position. Further, in disability, the explanation of the disability of the first category is clear to us. The first category of disability is retired. However, when it comes to second and third-class people with disabilities, which can be found on the labour market, then those persons, according to their health skills, should be put in priority, not to get into a situation because they are second or third categories, that they cannot get a job. I think it's also necessary to protect people like that, and that, first of all, applies to workers who will be out of work in the next period ahead of us. Given that, I'd like to ask that the part that doesn't damage anyone is complemented, and I think it contributes to workers who are going to be out of work, that at least they can have equal conditions in competition. I hope that the government will adhere to this part of the law that says that when people find themselves in different trade unions or political parties, they will not be chigged as is now done by working organisations throughout Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14788	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14789	Dear People's MPs, I am Professor Dr Predrag Canovic, MP of the Serbian Unity Party. I have never been a criminal, and let those MPs from the Serbian Radical Party and the Democratic Party who called us such an ugly name. My amendment to Article 14. The draft labour law aims to complete, in a way, the prohibition of discrimination provided for in this law. In fact, Article 14 reads: "The person seeking employment, as well as the employees, cannot be put in a more unfavourable position than others, regardless of gender, birth, language, race, nationality, etc." In our opinion, the word "birth" should be added to "age, disability and health". This puts the elderly, the disabled, and the sick in an equal position with others. In addition, the proposed addition of this provision respects the International Labour Organisation's suggestion, which is given to an appropriate member of the proposal for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14790	The word is Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14791	Dear colleagues, the respected presidency, the reason the Democratic Party of Serbia will vote for this amendment (although it has not submitted it, we did not even see it when we prepared the amendments, but it was later noted) are these three additional reasons for the ban on discrimination provided by the European Union Directive 76/207 of 9 February 1976. This directive, in addition to disability, age and health, provides some other provisions that are already part of this member of the law, so that I think that we would be in line with European Union regulations should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14792	The word has Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14793	I think Article 14 has only done too much norming of something that is fully secured in our country by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 35. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says, "Everyone has the right to work." That's attitude one. Article 13: "Citizens are equal in rights and duties and have equal protection against state and other bodies regardless of race, gender, birth, language, nationality, religion, political or other confidence, education, social origin, belonging, property, or personal property". I don't think it's necessary to extend the rights laid down in Article 14. I don't think it should have been written at all because it was all arranged by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. And, as Article 13 was, in fact, a copy of constitutional provisions, which does not need legislation lower than the Constitution to work, why would you prescribe the Constitution when it is the highest act and must be respected by the very existence. Article 14 is obviously a copying of the Constitution and is not necessary at all to achieve these rights; or in practice allow these rights to be exercised; or not to be realised. If it's already written in the Constitution, it's illegal to prescribe it in law if you don't think it's the right thing to do. If you think you're going to secure it, it's enough that it says in the Constitution and doesn't have to write in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14794	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 68, against 75, the abstentioned were not voted 20, a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14795	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Article 15, on which I have invested the amendment, concerns conditions for establishing a working relationship, talks about general conditions, which are: health capacity, at least 15 years of life; so, this limit from 16 to 15 years of age, this law needs to be met and other conditions for working on certain jobs (meaning qualifications). Item 3 speaks of minors and says: "A working relationship with a person under 18 can be conceived with the written consent of parents or guardians if such work does not endanger his health, morals and education, or if such work is not prohibited by law. "I have asked that this part" if such work is not threatened by his health, morals and education, or if such work is not prohibited by law" is deleted from Article 15, Article 15, first of all, because it is completely pointless, which prescribes something already prescribed by other laws, I assume by Criminal Law. Criminal law prohibits, say, theft, drug trafficking, counterfeiting, embezzlement, fraud, and cannot be an employer with anyone, not with a minor, not with a minor to establish a working relationship for the purpose of committing criminal acts or other illicit acts that are punishable by some other law. If he does, then he's subject to criminal responsibility. There's nothing to explain the law by the government that would point us to what the promoter wanted with a provision like this. In my opinion, she's completely pointless, completely superfluous, and I don't know what kind of work it is that's forbidden by law. If it is prohibited by law, then the employer is unable to carry out that activity at all and it is unnecessary that any provision regulated by some other law be regulated by this labour law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14796	Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14797	We, reviewing this text of the Labour Law proposal, tried to figure out where the idea of a minor would force him to do illegal and immoral work; to force him to do legalized work that endangers his health. I can't find out where the bill promoter found an employer who has a contract to work with a minor, and that job is immoral for minors. Please, where it is determined what is immoral, what threatens his health and where sanctions are laid down under Article 15. It's a bill of law. Article 28. The Constitution of Serbia, (but perhaps a member of 27 or 29.) Paragraph 2 says, "Special protection is given to minors who are not cared for by parents." With this member of the law, you protect a minor who is being cared for by a parent or guardian, so you also ask for their consent so that a minor can work on certain jobs. What about a minor whose parents don't take care of, who's gonna protect her? Furthermore, what are these jobs that endanger health, morality, and education, and can work on them for many years? Since it is forbidden exclusively for minors to work on jobs that threaten fatigue, health and education, what is allowed for full-time Serbian citizens, which otherwise endangers minors of morality, health and education. Totally, somehow, it's this member of the law. It is assumed that the billmaker wants to take special care of a minor, but brings us into a dilemma, whether there are such businesses that are legalised in Serbia. Is that a drug bust, what is it? What is a job that would particularly harm a minor - endangers his morals, and he will not be harmed by a full - age adult, it does not endanger his morals. The category of morality was general. That's how we raise the children, from the first, but for the rest of our lives. For this reason, we insisted that what is forbidden, which is harmful to health to be prohibited for both minors and minors, and that this is harmful to health or morals both for minors and minors, to those who have not been identified as criminals in our discussion, I give advice not to associate with criminals.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14798	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we could dialectically put here now some sign of equality between the morals of a minor and a minor. In the work performed by minors, we cannot apply the same principles that follow the work of a full-time adult, as well as those of bans in theaters. It is forbidden for persons under 18 or 16 to observe a particular film because of scenes that, according to the estimates of valid experts, call into question the credibility of a young person, unless she had time to form her own system of values and establish some personal lights so that she could function as a full-time person. It's, say, show business; some situations that may not have been in practice established with us yet, but which, whether we want to or not, are likely to put into effect very quickly with the logic of life. So there must be some kind of sanctioning in the business, but the protection of minors, in relation to those who are age-old on this issue, just as it was formulated in this article of the Law. Otherwise, basically, it's true that we can't have double or triple morals; then one for minors, the other for adulthood, and the third for pensioners. This came from something that is the civilization's current of the modern world, and that's why we supported it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14799	Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 43, against 117 abstentions, there were no five, a total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Now, at 1400 hours, a session of the Education Committee will be held in an O.R. on the third floor. We're working on it at 15.00 hours. [[After break - 15,50]] I ask the MPs to establish the quorum for the continuation of the work of the National Assembly. According to official records, 150 MPs are present this afternoon and 102 now. I ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups to "hurry" MPs to enter the O.R. Please don't have to interrupt the session again. (Pal Shandor, from the seat: I was at the board's session.) There are 20 MPs there at the session. The board meetings are not scheduled, at work hours. There's work hours -- after, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. Now we don't all have to work because someone doesn't care. Could someone please call off the board's session and continue to work in the Assembly for the afternoon. I ask the service to count the MPs present in the O.R. You play a lot of cards, you throw them in, you throw them out; you either go out as people or you insert the cards. Thank you very much, no need, we have a quorum. Why are we playing like kids in kindergarten? Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Canovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does an admancer want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14801	Dear People's MPs, the proposed amendment refers to Article 15(4). It's a draft labour law. In fact, Article 4 of the proposed law reads: "The disabled can establish a working relationship in accordance with a special law". Our proposal is to amend this member and to read: "Invalid persons are based working relationship under conditions and in a manner established by this law, if the special law is not different". In fact, we believe that the employment of disabled persons should and must be carried out under the same conditions as healthy workers, unless specific legislations relating to the protection of these persons have been established and to their more successful employment. The proposed amendment, unlike the solution offered, clearly provides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14802	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has Minister Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14803	I think this amendment, proposed by Dr Predrag Canovic, is sort of fixing the law, so I think it might be accepted. The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14804	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. The boards didn't take it. This is a later statement from the government. For 136, against four, three abstentions, not voted 26, a total of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14805	The amendment to Article 16 in a more precise way makes it easier for those who apply for employment at any work place to do so in the right sense of words and do so, because Article 16(1) says that the employee is obliged to notify the employer of his health before the conclusion of the labour contract. We find it unnecessary for this attitude of this member to stand for something like this, for the simple reason that the former member, attitude 15, regulates this area; it says that a person who is founded by a working relationship must have a general health capacity. At the same time, Article 27 of Article 2 states: "Employees can only work on the work referred to in Article 1 of this Article on the basis of a previously established medical capacity to work on these jobs by a competent health institution". Indeed, they were inadmissible and very often the template responses of the government of the Republic of Serbia that did not want to accept almost any amendments to the SRS MPs. Thus, in an explanation for not accepting this amendment, although it is obvious that this is absolutely unnecessary and that the employer can manipulate employees around their health status (although he is already a former member of Article 15 and Article 15). 27. found that he had to bring medical assurance in the event of a particular post competition). The government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for all of this not being about general health skills but about health conditions. It's like it's two different concepts, like they're double personalities, not one employee who's involved and who's obliged to bring a doctor's belief when he's applying to a particular job. What else does the government say? One cannot compete or be employed in such a workplace, if, for example, it suffers from dizziness, and it should work on some higher objects, etc. That's really funny, because we had an example here, when we were establishing a Republic government, that certain ministers, and you from DOS insisted on that, passed some medical examinations. You know a few of them didn't make it the first time, so they had to go back to those tests. They went to the VMA and they found there in the first wave that they couldn't do what you predicted them to do. That this is so, that perhaps some of these reports have been falsified, shows their overall impact over the past ten months, all of what they are doing from the minister's position. If so, then here, in fact, you, who are going to vote for this law and for this Article 16, you have to ask yourself if you are all competent enough; each of you is going to go off on your own, doing this job here, what is your responsibility, how you treat such important legal projects, and above all whether you have any idea how much this is going to cost and how many employees in Serbia, how they're going to get hurt because of these kind of legal projects. So I invite you to think about these amendments a little bit, and to take a good look at everything, if the transmitter didn't have enough hearing, and especially to accept our amendments, where we are correcting this bill, because something that has been said in other members in a different way should not be repeated. One more thing, since we've been late for half an hour to continue this session and discuss the Labour Act in particular, I don't think you'll accept this amendment at all. It's obvious, and for the sake of the general public, we should note that all of this is informally what we do. The labour law was annulled by voting in principle. We are now playing the assembly, playing lawmen, discussing amendments that should have been entered into the procedure just so that you had a valid congregation majority, legitimately to vote the law in principle. That's not what happened. It all happened, and it was best that we didn't even come to such a farce debate about the Law in particular, that the motionary withdrew this law from the procedure. It's not too late, and he needs to think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14806	Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Nikolic, come in. Before you speak, I would like to inform you that today is a short time for a delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which has asked for some time to attend our session. On your behalf and on your behalf, I welcome them, and we can continue our work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14807	You shouldn't have applauded the efforts of the SRS to work on the amendments. Article 16 The bill of law is very problematic from the point of view of morality. You're asking an unemployed person to commit self-report. Thus, it is not sufficient that Article 15 of attitude 1 requires a person to have general health skills. Article 27(2) is not sufficient. I think employees can only operate on the basis of pre-established health skills. This is the doctor's belief that anyone who teaches a work book and builds a working relationship is obliged to bring an employer, and you are still asking that employees themselves declare that there are circumstances that have an important impact on the performance of the work relationship, or that they may endanger the lives and health of other persons, and that will later be the basis for the termination of the work contract. The other day was the world's day of fighting against the side. What are you going to do with the people who are infected with the HIV virus? They won't be able to get a job, will they? And what do kids who have this virus go to school for? What you're saying now is that it's dangerous for workers not to accidentally get infected by their colleagues, and it's not dangerous for children at school to get infected by some student. The legislator dared also consider the matter of other sciences and not apply the knowledge acquired by scientists around the world, but here at our remark that it is not the duty of one who seeks a job and that it is not the basis that he cannot establish a working relationship, you answer senselessly - and what if a person who suffers from dizziness wants to work at heights. Well, find a mother's son who suffers from dizziness to climb a crane, see exactly the one who consciously lies to suffer from dizziness, and he'll climb a crane, like, when he starts to work. No way. There are difficult working conditions, and it's working underwater, in a bag, at a high altitude, but believe me, I've worked in construction for 18 years, there's no way someone can fool you not to work on heights without going up to work. If he could go, he'd work there. This member is pointless. You're ignoring doctors and medical science. Doctors determine that he is capable of doing the job, then Article 27 finds that he is also capable of a specific job that he builds a work contract, and you are here asking him to report himself up front that there are some indications that not all results are correct, people can be infected by him. Guys, there are hundreds of viruses. The sneezing is the basis by which a man can say, you know what, I have a sneeze and what if I get a job, I have a fever, I sweat at night, but not because I have a virus. He can't get a job. Or to get a job, and then the employer says - you fooled me when we made a work contract and you didn't report that you had a high temperature, please investigate your illness, I don't think you're medically capable. I don't know why you've been keeping up with all the orders you've been getting on the sidelines about this law. It is obvious that you have respected every recommendation from employers abroad, and you did not follow the recommendations of working associations from abroad. And, now, another thing -- since this session is being held under a lot of pressure, and the additional pressure is now that you've brought some people to watch us, I have in my hands one announcement from the Independent Solidarity Union of IMT. I will read this to you - based on the agreement reached by the Independent Solidarity Union with the IMT administration of all workers participating in the protest Wednesday (December 5th 2001) in front of the Serbian Parliament will be provided with a sandwich, organised bus transport from the IMT and paid daily. (President: Time. I'm done. What time does this look like to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament? Does this look like a rally to you from years ago? One more thing, since you guys who do this don't know the job well, you taught him when you were working for the socialists, you get them post-sex sandwiches, now it's a big post.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14808	You're not functional, you're not mentioned. Please, you are not mentioned by function He said, "Independent Union." [[receives to a member of Parliament seeking replica]] You recognized each other, and Mr. Nikolic missed the name of the union. He didn't mention you. You don't have the right to a replica. The emissary insists, he approached the pay phone. I didn't give you my word, sir. Believe me, I didn't give you my word, he didn't mention your union. Where do I learn such a thing? Did you know that? (He speaks to an MP who continues to insist. Don't, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14809	Very short. Whether the union will give its members sandwiches, give their lunch, give their diaries, secure the buses, take them the way he thinks they should - it's a union thing. It's a union thing and it's clear to everyone. And that's what you've been telling all this time that there are no unions in this country that will fight for workers' interests and who know how to exercise their rights, proof that unions and how they know how to exercise their rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14810	Mr. Milovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14811	Just a few words about the amendment and Mr Nikolic's stance that this member of the law is absolutely unnecessary and should be deleted, that he did not belong in the law. Article 2 says - the employer must not condition the establishment of a working relationship with a pregnancy test. It is obvious that Mr Nikolic, who here advocates ethnicity in Serbia, wants to ban women from working, women who are pregnant. But it is a common knowledge of the position of the Serbian Radical Party, which only wants to tell fairy tales to the people, and in fact it is one of those parties, which have contributed that there is no birthright in this country and that everything is bad in this country. When it comes to Mr Nikolic's insinuations, about how sandwiches are provided here, I would remind you, Mr Nikolic, of your position two hours ago, when you said there was no collective bargaining, that unions had no rights, that workers had no rights. [[Sagar, disdain.]] Here's a typical example, Mr. Nikolic, that there are, that unions are strong, that they can force the employer even to provide them with sandwiches, journals, when they want it. Therefore, my dear Mr. Nikolic, everything you've said so far is not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14812	Please be quiet, Mr. Nikolic's word is a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14813	After Friday's beating, the minister spoke yesterday, and today he started yelling. I expect something Friday to happen again. First of all, I'm sorry that you abused government officials, who are professional and should have suggested that you would speak for this speaker. Now, when the president sent them away, you were forced to speak for yourself, but because of the public, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, and respected citizens, the amendment did not apply at all to attitude 2, which treats the working relationship of maternity and pregnant women. Amendment of the Serbian Radical Party to Article 16. (I have to read it, because the minister either didn't read it to him, or someone didn't read it to him, and I think the minister can't even read it) read it. And what the minister read, that's the position of Article 2, 16: "The employer must not condition the establishment of a working relationship with a pregnancy test." Well, not Minister, I understand you coming out here and defending something that's defensive, but it's as if you've now warned me about a member of 101 that I may not have read at all, not that I've responded to with an amendment. One more thing -- don't accuse me of falling in Serbia. What I am, one man, one political party, cannot achieve what Serbia lacks. I've tried my best, I've got one healthy marriage, I've got two healthy sons. At a time when I thought we should have kids, it was some normal number-- four family members. I'm sorry I don't have a third child. Minister, I want you to have twenty and that I can say in two years, here's the minister who's responsible for raising birthright. But at the time of the biggest clashes with the SPS, this is where I tabled a proposal to amend and supplement the Social Care Act. He had to be accepted. And when is that? Then when you were nice to them, my dear sir, when you burned and burned here in 1994 with the Socialists, I was in conflict with them. Then when I brought down Slobodan Milosevic, you helped him stay in power. But well, at that time, the third child was finally, in a way, called the Serbian family's wish and the Serbian state's wish. At that time, for a third child in settlements or parts of the settlement where the birth rate is negative, we predicted various reliefs. You have abolished them with this law, this bill of work. The woman who gave birth to a third child had two years maternity leave, and now she'll only be a year old. Fortunately, our unwanted guests left the congregation, otherwise we would be forced to leave the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14814	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 52, against 124, the abstention of four, was not voted 14, a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milos Lukic submitted to the 16th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 32, against 136, the abstentions were not voted 28, a total of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th amendment were submitted by MPs Sladjan Mijajlovic, Slobodan Adzic and Srdjan Petrovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 76, against 97, the abstentioned were not voted 24, a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Petrovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and a new member of 17a be added after article 17. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Does the promoter want a word? He has the word National MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14815	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I also spoke about the non-compliance of certain provisions of the bill with the Federal Labour Act, as well as certain members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is my amendment to Article 17, where I request that a new Article 17a be added after Article 17, which regulates the way in which the work relationship is founded (I would not read the full member), i.e. advertising job openings. This was supported by the arguments contained in the draft labour law, which said in Article 13(2): "Freedom of work, free choice of profession and employment and participation in governance is guaranteed. Everyone is, under equal conditions, available job and function." Also, Article 35. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, among other things, has established the principle that everyone under equal conditions can have a job. It is also provided for in Article 9 of the Federal Law on the Fundamentals of Working Relations. Since I heard a big news story in Mr. Minister's principle debate that I didn't know, which is that everything is possible in this country, I have interpreted that it is possible that the Republic law is not in line with the federal law, and the federal state still exists and we all swear on it. For this reason, I also predicted that Article 17a should be added after article 17. The government explains why it does not accept this amendment, among other things, says that even the current way of advertising free jobs has not given the desired effects, such as increasing employment, etc. I would just remind the government gentlemen, who wrote this argument, that the increase in employment does not depend in any way on whether or not the job will be advertised. You know how new jobs are being opened. So we need new companies, new businesses, new jobs, etc., for all of these we need money, and at this point we don't have or are just expecting to get it. So, given that at this point in time in our complete economy over 70% (I don't know the exact percentage) lies in state or social property, that it still represents majority participation, I don't think it should give too much rights and authority to the employer. The question arises whether the director of a company of social, state, in the classical sense is an employer, whether it's his firm, or someone chose him there, and he got absolute freedom so he could hire whoever he wants. Yet the ad was, and it should be, some means through which many who are interested in starting a work relationship, or to hire, as they are now said, to find out that there is somewhere to work for that occupation they possess. I would give just one example -- that a man from Vranja or from Sudotica, any interest, may they be also wanted to be of top interest, to know that in Smederev, in Jagodina, Belgrade, there will be a job where his profession is sought. From the fact that an employer at a state, or social firm, will ask where he has such an expert, the kind of guy he needs to find and hire, my dear ladies and gentlemen, we're still a long way away. I therefore urge that during this transitional period we retain the solution that was made, that the employer be obliged to advertise the job, just to respect the provisions of the Constitution and the provisions of the Federal Labour Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14816	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 39, against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25, a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment to add a new member to Article 17a was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14817	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that the Institute of Advertising and Competition must have a duty, as it has been in the current Law. Why does an ad still have to exist? First of all, due to the equal availability of all citizens, to know where to find jobs and to be able to compete in those jobs. Otherwise, in my opinion, these basic constitutional provisions are being violated. There are good examples, why it should be done. Simply, how will one teacher or one medical technician know where the empty spaces are; or another good example - how will our analysts know how much we need an electrician or how much we need a locksmith in this country? By erasing this institute, all of this is questionable. In addition, the representatives of the IOR also felt that such a provision should be maintained in this new Labour Act. I think this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14818	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 112 abstentions, there was no 16 vote, a total of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Markovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does an admancer want a word? He's not here. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 45, against 109 abstention one, they did not vote 32, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14819	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 20, we asked for a third position to be added, which would read: "The employer is obliged to conclude an employment contract with the employee within 15 days. In order to explain why this is necessary, I will return to Article 18, which explicitly states that working relationship is based on a working contract. So there's no working relationship without a work contract. Article 20 says: "The contract on work is concluded before the employee enters into work in writing. "There goes Article 2 which reads: "If an employer with an employee does not conclude an employment contract in accordance with the position of the first member, the employee is believed to have established a working relationship on an indefinite period of time on the date of entry into service. "Obviously, there shouldn't be any bigger problems. It could be someone uninformed to move forward and believe in the government's explanation that this solution represents a greater protection of employees. But that's not true. For what? It's about an individual contract. The employment relationship is an individual act between the employer and the worker. The fee is listed in Article 21 of what the contract contains. It is therefore unacceptable that there is any working relationship, although the condition that this labour contract exists would exist at all without knowing what the contract contains. Let's say, here's an example to give. The labor contract contains a profit. What's the profit from a working relationship like this that survives without a labor contract, for which wage does the worker make? Or, the place of work; it's possible that the place of work isn't in one place, that there are some out-of-the-way departments. A man doesn't know where he's going to work at work. If it's a traineeship, he doesn't know how long his internship takes. There must be a work contract. So, it doesn't have to at this time, but we asked that within 15 days, the employer must conclude a labour contract, with all of these elements contained in Article 21 and Article 21 itself; he says there may be other provisions there, that the employer and employees can negotiate a lot more which is in their interest. Since you take great care of what the European Union says, I will remind you that the European Union Directive since 1991 on the obligation of the employer to inform the employee of the terms and conditions applicable to the contract or employment relationship. I believe it is necessary that there is such a provision in the law and that at least it states that the contract must be concluded in writing, if it requires one of the parties, employer or employee, and it is recommended that it be an integral part of the Law. Why did you avoid this, we're left to guess. We believe that you are in breach of the basic principle and of the basic intensity, i.e. the purpose of the existence of a labour contract, since there is no working relationship without a working contract, as an individual act. This will then be implicated when it comes to, say, breaking up of a working relationship; on which basis the working relationship will be broken down; and on all those other rights which the worker draws from a working relationship and which are not regulated by one contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14820	The word is from Mr Tomislav Nikolic, representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14821	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you should accept this amendment. Of course, I'm not saying you will, I'm just saying you should. Article 1 The draft law of law, obligations and responsibilities shall be governed by a collective contract or by a labour or labour contract. We've already said that the labor rule is brought by an employer. The collective contract is not mandatory. He stays as a worker's real labor contract. Suddenly, this member of the bill, the 20th member, says that the bill does not have a labour contract. How there will be an employer-worker relationship if the collective contract is not mandatory, if the labour rule is passed by the employer and if the labour contract is not mandatory. Here's how he's not bound. Apparently, the worker is protected. The labour contract should be signed and completed prior to the entry of workers, but if the worker entered into work without a work contract, he is considered to have established a working relationship for an indefinite period of time on the date of entry into work; but where his labour contract is now; why the employer did not write his position on his own to say - the employer is required within 15 days to sign a labour contract with that worker. Why did you drop that obligation? What kind of working relationship is that without a work contract? You said you didn't have to be collective, so now you don't have to do a job contract. We went so far as to predict in Article 166 that a fine of 100 to 200 thousand dinars would be punished by an employer who did not conclude a contract of work within 15 days with a worker who had been admitted to work. Do you have any serious people who have read the bill, come out and say why there will be a working relationship in which the worker will not have an employment contract? Not to mention that, according to Article 21 where the employment contract is defined, the worker now does not know what his salary is; nor what his working conditions are; what his place of work is; the day of work; he does not know how long his day and week of work is; there is no type and description of the jobs he should be working on. So he can kick him around the firm any way he wants because he didn't make a deal with the employer. What is it, volunteering, volunteering, working on black? What's work without a work contract? Working on black? It's not black work for you if he reported it, so he's running disability and retirement insurance. Work without a work contract: is that the worst possible discrimination; that he does not know at all what rights he has, and all his obligations are what the employer tells him. I don't see the point, unless you really want to destroy the factories and the labor force, so you don't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14822	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 48, against 116, a abstentioned one, was not voted on by 15, a total of 180 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milos Lukic submitted to the 21st amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The amendmentr doesn't want a word. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 54, against 88, the abstentioned were not voted 35, a total of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Garčević. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14823	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, the honourable MPs, in Article 21, I suggested that a supplement be made with point 10), where work discipline injuries would be easier and more serious. The Serbian government responded and referred to Article 103(3). However, Article 103(3) says: "If an employee commits an offence to a work obligation established by a labour contract, he will do so. "I ask the question: who will determine the basic injuries to work; where they are listed; where employers would regulate the basic injuries or serious injuries that could result in the punishment of distance from work. It means that it was left to every employer to regulate by means of a contract or other regulation what it was at a given time of breach of labour discipline. I don't think it would mind that the Serbian government has regulated in this article what falls under serious injuries, which would be common to all workers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and where the labour contract would then regulate them. I don't know what the motives are, and I don't know why it's listed anywhere. It has been in practice so far that basic, more serious injuries to labour discipline, which make it clear that the employment relationship has stopped, are regulated. It seems that we are also increasing the opportunities of employers in this article, so everything that needs to be done to them. I think employers are far less than workers and their families and there will come a moment when that part must be regulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14824	The word is from Mr Toma Busetic, a representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14825	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this article the 21st is all disputed. The workers have been disfigured. The attempt by MP Vlad Garcevic to fix something refers to a certain addition of this member, where it is said of easier and more serious violations of labour obligations. The proponent's answer is that all of this is regulated by Article 103(1) point 3, where it is spoken of when being fired, so that, for example, it is possible to get fired if an employee commits a work obligation by doing so. There's no telling what kind of work obligations they are. Or, for example, in art. The 103rd point 4 is even more rigorous - "if his behaviour is such that he cannot continue his work with the employer". What does that mean? Examples work, take the Jagodina cable factory: hard working conditions, cable, worker throws a cigarette or spit, and employer can say - e, that's enough reason to get fired. Of course, not all of us are as nice as the bearers of the new government, and here are the examples. I have an individual collective contract in my hand where there's a breach of labour obligations, and it's also about disciplinary measures. What are those measures? Public notice, fine, termination of employment, so for each of these measures, we have four, nine points, 13 points, and what does it all mean? What are these work-related injuries? There's nothing here, and we consider in the SPS -- this is real democracy in this individual collective agreement, and these are reforms when something is good for most people, and it's not a reform -- punishment, sanctions, dismissal, all of this is contained in this new law, which most likely the DOS government will adopt these days.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14826	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to article 21, which was submitted by MP Vladimir Garčević. For 52, against 109 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, out of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14827	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tried amendments to article 21 to define in fact Article 25. Article 25. The labour law speaks of trial work and attitude 2 says that trial work can last for the longest six months, and I think the government has accepted some amendment that it can be, as in the current law, three months. In Article 25, paragraph 5, says: An employee who did not show adequate working and professional skills during the test work, the working relationship ends on the day of expiry of a specified working-negotiation period. However, these provisions are not further worked out. If the worker and employer sign a labour contract, if there is a trial work in that contract, it can not be undefined now, so just to say - the trial work lasts for three or six months. Now it has to be defined how long the test work takes. So, the purpose of the amendment is to contract the work of the employer and the worker to arrange the trial work and its length. The second thing is that the labor contract provides for a way to verify the ability of workers at the end of the trial work. And this is because Article 25 provides that if a worker fails to satisfy, if he fails to show proper professional and working skills, his employment relationship ends. A contract should be made to determine whether the worker has shown appropriate professional and working skills. Whether it's just an employer or it's some commission, an expert commission in a company that's going to do the job. The employer can constantly negotiate trial work with workers and constantly at the end of the trial work to say: you did not show proper working and professional skills - bye-bye; conclude a new working contract with the new worker and tells him the same thing, even after what period, can after a month, two or three, or after six months. Why don't you at least protect the worker a little bit? This is something, you should do it, I'm not saying you have to, you don't have to do anything, but there are things you have to negotiate. It's like writing in a store -- we have bread, and we'll set the price when you get there. There's got to be something in advance. The work contract in advance must know how long the trial work takes, it must know who and how it will determine whether the probationary worker has shown business and other abilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14828	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 46, against 111 abstentions, there was no 9 vote, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Sladjan Mijalovic, Slobodan Adzic and Srdjan Petrovic have tabled an amendment suggesting that the title above Articles 22 and 22 be deleted. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Milos Lukic submitted to the 22nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 23, against 98, three abstentions, 38 of the 162 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Rodoljub Sabic, Natasa Milojevic, Olgica Kircanski, Jelena Milenković, Branko Gligorić, Dragan Milentijevic, Aleksandar Vatović and Meho Omerović and individual MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Miomir Ilic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14829	It happened that the amendment of the SRS coincided with those whose names you read, but we didn't expect them to answer the word and defend their views because much has changed. During the night in Serbia, all sorts of changes are made, early arrangements are made, different decisions are made, but this is a very serious amendment, and here we come to a key issue for those who are employed in Serbia, which will be left without a job in the property transformation process. We are going back to the Law on his own transformation, or privatisation, which was adopted seven months ago in this assembly and the amendment that had the SRS parliamentary group, where we asked you to make sure that a new employer in the privatisation process is obliged not to fire employees while buying the factory, until you see what a employment strategy will be and how these people will be taken care of. It is obvious that these experiments you have applied in the flag, and you will probably apply the same recipe in all the other giants in our country, in the metal complex, in the machine, etc., not only have not given you any results; you have not fulfilled what is written in the contract, although such blackmailing was offered to workers in the middle of the night; today I have denied it to you by one example - in the disabled; and also in those who are at the Internal Employment Service. This opens the possibility for a future employer to leave all employees without any rights in the process of property transformation. They will, therefore, be workers left at the mercy of the new owner, without any obligation. That is so, says Article 22, which says: "When the employer changes, the rights and obligations of the employment contract are transferred to the new employer, with the written consent of the employee and the new employer." She asked the SRS parliamentary group, before which I submitted this amendment, to delete the words "and the new employer", because we believe that the new employer, the one who buys the factory, any or any company in our country, must bear a certain responsibility and business risk. It must be handled for a certain period, but to tell the workers: in a year, two or three, there is no layoff, it cannot be manipulated with an employment contract that they already have with the former employer. It's the risk of these potential employers coming into the factory. And not like this, giving them an open opportunity to fire employees tomorrow, when they want to, and say, I don't like it, etc. However, this limitation in the area of employment and earnings is obvious now for everyone in Serbia, as well as for this law, as well as for many other previous laws, as well as for budgeting, it is all dictated on the outside, and above all by the IMF, the World Bank, all those financial institutions and all the governments of the countries with which you work closely. They, already according to the tried recipe in the surrounding countries, intend, in the same way, with your keen help, to make the economic shipwreck in Serbia, to create an army of unemployed people. This is exactly the kind of member you're going to give them, plus a previously elected Privatisation Act. It is therefore important that this member be amended and this amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14830	Thank you. The word of the Messenger of the people is Miomir Ilic, as a bearer of the adjuvants.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14831	Dear People's MPs, in light of the amendment I tabled on behalf of the SPS and the explanation former MP Natasa Jovanovic gave, I believe that this amendment is a key amendment and that it is related to Article 105, which is problematic. At the moment of merger, merger, division and sale of enterprises, and in this case I mean social enterprises that have not yet implemented the transformation process, it is very important that at that moment, and since by adopting the law in principle we have actuated the obligation of collective bargaining. It is our desire to protect an employee, who, however, remains at that moment in a new working relationship at the moment of division, attachment, merger. I mean, he's left to the employer for mercy and mercy. For this reason, I do not understand why the Government accepted the removal of a member on a proposal from the DSS group if it did not accept and delete Article 105. It's a bill of law. I consider this because by eradicating this member, the employee is fully placed in an unequal position. Imagine now the company, which is currently in the process of transformation, needs to be divided, merged or sold, that at that moment all workers are interrupted working relationship. The new employer that is being formed at that time, whether connected, attached or divided, should be admitted to the employment relationship of all employees. How do we delete this member, then how are we going to provide that employee with a guarantee that he will be admitted from that employer? For this reason, an amendment has been proposed to place a point after the word "employee and new employer" after the word "employee" in order to oblige the employer in such a way that workers who are in the attached, merged and divided company are admitted into a working relationship. If that employer is not fit and does not comply with the work obligations, then there are certain members of this legislative proposal that you regulate this matter. I think that the proposer should think carefully, carry out some consultations and that this amendment that we have tabled so unnecessarily, but bindingly, to adopt the amendment that we, as MPs from different parties, have submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14832	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Petrovic, representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14833	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, Article 22 is a very important member. He's one of two members who talks about what's coming to us in transition, means change of ownership, businesses, privatisation. When the company owners change, meaning mergers, mergers, division and sale of enterprises, contractual obligations of the previous owner, these were mainly social enterprises, they should remain contractual obligations of the new owner. That's normal. In all relationships, contracts remain. Contracts don't sign again. That's how it works in the world, and there's no reason he shouldn't be here. For these reasons, we felt that this member was completely unnecessary. There is no need for consent to be given either by employers or by employees. So we think this is our solution, which means erasing Article 22, and what the government has accepted, is the best solution. It is certain that this removes one hole in the law, one of the two big holes in the law, which could serve some of the possible new owners of our businesses to fire employees at a small door. We believe that the transition process must be transparent. True investors, strategic investors, and the Serbian government has repeatedly said that strategic investors are the government's and our state's commitment in general, certainly will not seek in the law of the hole, that in this way they see some possibilities for their future business in Serbia, but will want clean relations. We believe this solution, by erasing Article 22, would be like an art. The 105th Law, had a completely clear and transparent situation that would be good for all those important, strategic partners who don't want to have an unstable state. Once again, we think that the solution, erasing Article 22, is better. For these reasons, this three-united amendment should not be accepted; three amendments to those other parties, meaning the SRS, the Social Democracy and the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14834	National MP Toma Busetic, a representative of the SPS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to this Article 22, I look more at it through the prism of the government of Serbia and the pronoun to go very quickly into the transition process, which has already been seen in Eastern European countries. What does that mean? I will state Russia's example: according to estimates of US experts, Russian companies are privatised at a cost of 0.1% to 1% of the value of analogue American companies; while real economic power has been relocated to 5-6% of citizens. That's what's coming for us. Between 1990 and 1995, according to the State Statistics Committee of Russia, the gross social product was halved. That's what's happening to us this year, because production has fallen significantly. All Eastern European countries in transition received the most this is the disappearance of their national economies. They're nothing but a market for Western goods. That's what's coming to us, and it's already happening. The Western strategy marginalised the overall economy of Eastern Europe. That's what they'll do to us. These countries, like Bulgaria, have become large importers from large producers of certain products. It's a similar situation with us. Agricultural products were imported 60% more this year than last year. So this article 22 speaks clearly of the government's intention. I don't think it should be deleted, but a proposal should be adopted by MPs Miomir Ilic and Natasa Jovanovic. So put an end to the word "employee."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14836	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 42, against 99, there are no abstentions, there is no 16 vote, a total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 25th Amendment were submitted by MPs Sladjan Mijajlovic, Slobodan Adzic and Srdjan Petrovic. The government, the Labour Committee, the martial arts and social issues have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14837	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am obliged to say once again, even for the sake of the public, why the four of us from the Serbian Radical Party Parliament Club explain our amendments. This is because the secretary of the assembly imagined that the graphologist and interpreted that our signatures were not authentic. I suggest that he include experts - graphologists around this affair, whether Mr. Novakovic was at the assembly session yesterday or not, because you will allow us to talk and defend the amendments without the law being actually not adopted. In Article 25, we asked that the trial work be reduced from six to three months. We heard that such an amendment was accepted by a group of MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia. However, with our amendment, which I am trying to explain, we have also provided for attitude 3 after item 2, which would read: "Trying work within the meaning of Articles 1 and 2 of this article cannot be established as a trainee". An intern who has yet to prove that he has been trained and to qualify for independent work within a year, as contracted by his employer's contract, depending on the professional training and will of the employer, may be subject to abuse if we do not have such an attitude in this article. For what? A man who has never worked will be admitted to probation, now for the longest of three months, with one employer. The employer says yes, you're a good engineer but you don't meet my criteria and has the right to cancel his work contract after that. He goes to another employer, three months again in a row, but he can't get that chance to pass a trainee's exam. Because in this way, these nine months or a year as required for a certain professional preparation, it verifies through a diploma of a passed trainee's exam. And don't forget, it's not just an employer who's going to verify to one of his commission whether someone is professional or not, whether or not they passed a trainee's exam; we still have state authorities, thank God, we have public enterprises. There is a special law on taking a trainee exam, and if there is a labour market, people will be employed by a private employer but also in the social and state sector. So they're going to have some work experience, and they're going to be in a situation where they're not even interns, because they don't have a trainee's exam, they haven't gotten that condition, and on the other hand they have some work experience. This way, it would go way beyond that. Think about it, Minister. You have time to make it right. I think you're going to get into an awkward position for people who have yet to pass a trainee's exam and continue to work in their profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14838	The word has Tomislav Nikolic, a representative of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14839	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs from this pay phone The Serbian Radical Party has been accused of all sorts of things, but for the last time and for the fall of Natalie in Serbia, as if we had no shortcuts and do not deal with politics, but we just need to chase Serbia to raise birth. Whoever accused us should accept our amendment now. This amendment treats our children. You'll admit that whoever's hiring as an intern is our child, one of us. And we're all almost in our age when we need to think about the rights that children have, ours, other people's; they're all our children. Why does it bother the government's representative to rule out the possibility of an employer establishing probationary work for a trainee? And what a pointless provision it would be to teach someone who doesn't have a day of internship, who comes from the school bench, who has yet to verify, to learn to verify the knowledge he's acquired, to prescribe him probation. It's the first time she's been hired, first time she enters a factory, on a construction site, seat behind a vehicle's steering wheel, and we say, well, now you're on probation. His trial work is his traineeship. Depending on the weight of the work to be done, the duration of the traineeship is different. At the end of that traineeship, he passed a trainee's exam. What he needs is the possibility of someone firing him now after three months, because the amendment predicted that the trial work couldn't last more than three months. You've accepted the amendment of another MP, but here's where the trial work is likely to last for the longest three months. Imagine, after three months, someone tells an intern -- well, I'm sorry, you haven't shown your ability for these three months, and I'm breaking up the labor contract with you. And he came to learn something else from what the school couldn't teach him, and he's already suffering from one test that he's going to have with the employer, and now the employer, who you didn't legally force any commission, but he decides whether the probationary worker showed his abilities, now he's standing in front of an intern, in front of a 19-year-old kid, and he says, three months has passed, you haven't shown enough abilities, on the street. And he goes back to the traineeship, and there's someone without a soul again, and that can take a while. What we're asking of you -- just that for a trainee there can be no test work, and nothing more. And, if you ignore your jogunous behavior, and completely unreal to the amendments of the MPs because they are from the opposition, if you look into your children's eyes, you will realize that this amendment must be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14840	Anyone else answer for a word to this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 41, against 99, there are no abstentions, there is no 16 vote, a total of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Bora Stanimirovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 41, against 102 abstentions, 15 did not vote, a total of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 26th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14841	I will try to convince you to accept, although I know the outcome in advance, the full change of article 26, for the reason that today a large percentage of those in Serbia who are jobless is directed to start a working relationship for a certain time, and then to see if they are lucky that in some social enterprise, a private company, in the state administration, they get a job indefinitely. But if that's the case, if that's the way, maybe your children, your acquaintances, friends, or those you don't know at all, and they've shown you trust to represent them in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then think carefully about what kind of law these children will provide for work; or perhaps adults, those who have been waiting for a long time on the job market, to enter into this project that's called work for a certain time, to have it as a springboard for the future. So I asked that article 26 be changed and it reads: "A working relationship for a certain time can be started: firstly, when performing a specific job in its nature takes a certain time (seasonal jobs, work on designing a specific project, working in musical and theatre institutions; specialization of employees – while specialising), secondly, when increasing the volume of work, but not longer than six months; thirdly, when replacing a member of staff who is temporarily absent, ( sickening; working abroad, performing state and other public functions; serving military time); fourthly, as an intern, for training for independent work. An employee who has established a working relationship for a certain period of time shall cease working on the day of execution of the job, on the expiry of a given period or on the day of return of the absent employee. An employee who has established a working relationship for a certain period of time shall be based on a working relationship for an indefinite period of time, if the employee who has been replaced ceases working relationship or when the temporary increase of work becomes permanent. A temporary increase in the volume of work, within the meaning of Article 3, shall be considered permanent if employees, for whose performance has been admitted to a working relationship for a specified period, performs uninterrupted for more than six months. An employee who has established a working relationship for a certain period of time has all the rights, obligations and responsibilities as well as an employee who has established a working relationship for an indefinite period of time. A working relationship based on a certain time becomes a working relationship indefinitely if employees continue to work at least five working days after the deadline for which they have established a working relationship. "Only such a formalized work for a certain time can prevent a future employer or one who is now employed and under these conditions to continue to exploit, it is not difficult to say if I say in a literal sense of words, to exploit employees. What does it mean that we're being offered the law here and Article 26 where someone will be able to work for a certain time to three years? Says the government - so these are more flexible conditions. There are more flexible conditions for disabling those who seek work and those that you will first receive for six months, and again for six months, and another year, up to three years. That man won't even know what his future existence is, or why he graduated from school. You already have numerous examples, in many industries, as well as in the fields of health, education, the state administration, that I don't list you any further, that today these people, these children who work for a certain time, are completely uncertain. There are many examples, both in Kragujevac, and in all the cities in Serbia, that their uncertainty is growing every day, and now, with the adoption of such a law, up to three years, after which God gives them. The question is, what's going to happen to these people? However, this all fits in with that tried-out model that comes to you through internationalisation and this issue of the Labour Law, as well as through the full internationalisation of everything that is related to Serbia and the Serbian people, for the citizens of Serbia. It is already their tried-out model, those who condition that in the process of property transformation they buy our factories, which is that complete production is stopped, that it be brought to a minimum, to reduce, to increase unemployment, with a persistent increase in price. This creates chaos in the country and complete uncertainty about employment for many who have graduated from various schools, regardless of what professional education is at stake.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14842	He has the word Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and with this amendment, we wanted to ensure the minimum safety of employees employed by the employer. In fact, theoretically and practically, in a certain part, it is true that the same rights are employed at a certain time and indefinitely, but only for the time when they work. An indefinitely employed worker has certain rights, an employee who is employed for a certain period of time has certain rights, but only for a certain period of time. The day the contract of work expires for a certain period of time, he no longer has any rights. He didn't hurt his work discipline, he didn't break his work contract, he showed enough professional skills, but he doesn't answer his employer to have a worker indefinitely. He wants to have workers for a certain time. Well, it's not worth it. The change of clothes can't be a change of mind. The change of the bench in which the MP is located must not represent a change of mind. Now you want to tell your employers -- you can have factories at your disposal, three months, six months, a year, try these workers for a certain time. We've made it possible by law to fire them whenever you want, to make a deal on time that you want them to have no security, that only you have safety. Why did you predict that working for a certain period of time with one employee could take as long as three years? Where are these socialist, social democratic and other political parties, who have dared to put in their name words that are imperative for them to care for citizens' social security above all, and for the social security of employees and unemployed? All our employees will soon be unemployed. An employer who has workers for a certain time for three years, with interruptions or without interruptions, what is his obligation, what are his obligations - to take care of the company? Well, they'll declare the company's bankruptcy. What's that cost him? Is there a commitment to the workers? No, not at all. He's going to open another one where he's going to see the workers again for a certain time -- three, four, five, six months, and three months, and three more months. Would you agree to be Members of the National Assembly for a period of time, but not during the term of office, but to conclude with the President of the Assembly a three-month contract, and then within three months, you will enter into a five-month contract. It's all the same. What kind of worker has security? The one who has a working relationship for indefinite time. Borivove Katic: One who works well. That's not true. When you have 30,000 employees, you have to stay three grand, and 25 grand worked well. It's the same ones that produced 250,000 cars one year. What, they forgot to work? I can't figure out a parliamentary group that claims we don't have good workers, that they're all lazilebovics, sloths. That is even said by the minister, who advocated workers' rights; or he advocated being a minister. From member to member, we prove to you that you have completely succumbed to the pressure of the German government and have fulfilled all its tasks; that you are not interested in union positions; you said - these are communist unions; you are not interested in the views of the opposition MPs, you said - you were in power in the previous period. Yes, but in the previous period it was a different law on working relationships. It was a law that took care of a worker. Now come some new ones who don't care about the worker or the factory, they only care about what the German government will tell them, so let the citizens prepare for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14844	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I'm putting him to the vote. For 45, against 102 abstentions, there were no 16 votes, a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's Messenger, Dejan Michael, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14845	Dear Chairman, I would just like to ask, since we have an extraordinary session of the MP's club, to give a brief break so that we can consult on new developments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-04-0.u14846	I'm setting a break in the work of the National Assembly, according to Article 95. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, there are 218 MPs present today. Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum and I'm setting a half-hour break.
