ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 160 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Radomir Naumov, Aleksandar Popovic, Milos Lučić, Veselin Jankovic, Miroslav Martic, Milan Milosavljevic, Dragan Jočić, Zoran Boskovic. In the morning only absent: Ljubisa Maravić, Neda Arnerić, Živanko Radovančev, Jon Cisamaš, Branislav Pomorički. The delay was announced by Bogoljub Zečević. I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to be attended by the President, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. I would also like to inform you that the sittings were invited to attend Nenad Canak, the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and Dr Predrag Filipov, vice-president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, as the authorised representatives of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, who submitted amendments to the draft laws on the agenda of this session. Before we move on to the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions, I would like to inform you that you have accepted the resignation of Professor Borisvoj Mijatovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the term of office of MP Prof. Dr. Borisvoj Mijatovic, on the day of his resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Election of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office, before the time of his election, was ended, was passed by Prof. Dr. Borisvoj Mijatovic, elected by the Democratic Opposition of Serbia -- Dr. Vojislav Kostunica, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. You were presented the minutes of the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, held on 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31 March 2001. Does he have any objections to the record? No, there isn't. ) Since there are no objections to the record, we move to a decision on the record in general. I am voting on the minutes of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. For 146, no one, abstentioned one, voted 26, a total of 173 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. You have been presented the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, held on 9, 10, 11, 12, 17, 18, 19, 23, 24, 25. 26 April and 3, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, 15, 16, 17, 21, 22, 23, 24 and 28 May 2001. Any objections to the record? No, there isn't. ) Since there are no objections to the record, we move to a decision on the record in general. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. For 155, no one, with abstentions, voted 26, a total of 181 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. You were presented the minutes of the 3rd session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, held on 4 May 2001. Any objections to the record? No, there isn't. ) Since there are no objections to the record, we move to a decision on the record in general. I am voting on the minutes of the 3rd session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, held on 4 May 2001. For 156, no one with abstentions voted 30, a total of 186 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. You were presented the minutes of the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, held on 30 and 31 May 2001. Any objections to the record? (no) Since there are no objections to the record, we move to a decision on the record in general. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, held on 30 and 31 May 2001. For 159, no one, with abstentions, voted 31, a total of 190 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of its session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, held on 30 and 31 May 2001. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, which was called at the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 159 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for the holding of the Seventh Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the 7th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, the following Dn e n i d 1 was established. Proposal for the discharge of Dr Vuk Obradovic from the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a law on salaries in public authorities and public services, 3. Proposal for a law on one-time income tax and extra property acquired by the use of special benefits, 4. Proposal for a Privatisation Act, 5. Proposal for a Law on the Privatisation Agency, 6. Proposal for a Act on the Action Fund, 7. A Bill on State and Other Holidays in the Republic of Serbia, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of Objects, 9. Proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the fight against corruption, 10. Proposal for a Recommendation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the rules of conduct of public officials and officials, 11. Proposals for the resolution and appointment of a number of judicial functions holders. Since the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that the draft law on salaries in state authorities and public services (point 2 of the agenda) be considered by emergency procedure, the committees responsible, if they have not already done so, will submit their reports on the draft law during the session. National MP Dusan Proroković, based on Articles 84 and 133. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the proposals of the Law on Points 4, 5 and 6 of the Agenda, on the Proposal for a Law on Privatisation, the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Privatisation and the Proposal for a Act on the Action Fund. Does MP Dusan Prophetic want a word? (no) I am putting on the vote by MP Dusan Prorokovic to carry out a joint principled search on the drafts of the law on items 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda. For 146, against 48, there were no abstentions, no four votes, a total of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal FOR THE SERBIA OF DR Vuk OBRADovic FROM THE FUNCTION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA YOU have received a proposal for the resolution of Dr Vuk Obradovic from the post of Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is in agreement with Article 93. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 11. Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Article 197. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Zoran Djindjic. I am opening a debate on the proposal to resolve Dr Vuk Obradovic from the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Does the Prime Minister want a word? (yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8369	Dear People's MPs, as a proposer of this request, I would like to briefly explain it in three points and indeed very, very briefly. The first point concerns the concept of the government's work and the promise we made in this room when we formed the government. This was that both members of the government and the Deputy Prime Minister would exclusively deal with matters that are in their jurisdiction, that they would not be distracted in any other way in their work, that they would not be engaged in any private business, any commercial, any non-communication, and that they would avoid any activities that could be in conflict with their affairs in the government itself. That remains the continued commitment of this government. The second point is that the event in Social Democracy has become one scandal or incident, has become a topic for the media, that the party has failed within its ranks to solve the problem, that practically one whole period to this day has been burdened with one topic that has nothing to do with the government's functioning, or has to do with the priorities set by the government. Since the Deputy Prime Ministers, representatives of DOS parties, are here in the government itself on the merits of their parties, not on the basis of their personal merits. Apparently, by the inability of these stricters to solve the problem within themselves, the party lost its right to the post of Deputy Prime Minister, as events in the party began to burden the government in general. Of course, it can be argued that this is one imposed topic and that what actually happened at the top of Social Democracy, where groups were formed in the presidency itself which daily made statements against each other and excluded each other, that it was not a real topic, but that the theme might be a job that was done by the Deputy Prime Minister. But I don't share that opinion. I just want to inform you that I personally gave the mandate to Mr. Obradovic to be the vice president to deal with corruption. So, I gave him that mandate and there would be no reason to question it after two or three months now. The second is the idea of the law, which would single-taxe some order into high profits and corruption that happened over the past ten years, that's my idea, mine personally, and I've put it in the DOS election program. So all the stories about how maybe the Deputy Prime Minister's operation in the government itself, on the subject he was in charge, could be the reason for this crisis, I don't think they're involved. So it's simply that a member of the coalition who won the elections has come into problems that she couldn't solve for herself, that these problems have overcome the party's frameworks, that they have put a bad light on the DOS coalition itself and that this issue has therefore come to the DOS presidency as a body that decides on such issues. That's the third point I want to point out to you. At the DOS presidency session, as a body that practically appointed the government and which is politically responsible for this government, there was a vote on the basis of a debate on the subject. Of the 17 present, there was one vote abstention, two against and 14 votes, in a secret vote that I, on behalf of the government, was asking for the vice-president's discharge at this session. That's why I'm giving you this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8370	Does Mr. Vuk Obradovic want the word? (yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8371	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs and members of the government will discuss several extremely important documents for Serbia and its citizens at this session of the National Assembly. A one-time tax law will be considered, which would, by consistent application, correct or at least mitigate the great injustice done to most citizens, and bring back significant, necessary financial resources to the poor people and the state. A resolution on the fight against corruption is likely to be adopted, which for the first time in Serbia's recent history lays down the foundations of a national and state anti-corruption strategy, which has taken a deep step in all the pores of our lives. There are also recommendations on the agenda for the behaviour of public officials and officials, which should mark the start of a genuine fight for legal and fair engagement of all responsible public and social affairs operators. I was directly responsible for the preparation of these documents, but it is most likely that it will happen, not my fault, that I do not participate in the congregation debate on them. With the will and decision of the Prime Minister, a procedure has been initiated for my resolution. I respect his initiative, but I warn you it seems in an unfounded and unprincipled way, without any evidence, based on the most vulgar intriguing and insinuating. It's a dangerous precedent. Tomorrow, you can request the release of another official without guilt and proven charges. As much as tomorrow and some other party can be faced with an attempt to get someone on the side thanks to their current power to edit relations in it. Social democracy is a powerful party and it has solved the problems effectively and to the great satisfaction of its members and sympathisers. Dear MPs, before this debate, as if her epilogue had been known in advance, I was removed from the duties of the President of the Commission to investigate the most serious abuses in economic and financial business. I was replaced, although neither the Government of the Republic of Serbia nor its prime minister, had a public objection to its work. The Commission's report at the cabinet session was unanimously accepted, even without debate. I've never talked about anything lightly and without arguments. The data the Commission has come up with are inexorable and irrefutable, and when it comes to primary emissions, buying foreign exchanges from the NBJ, and when it comes to abuses of foreign exchange savings of citizens and funds of various funds and loans, and when it comes to heritage and other villas and apartments, including when it comes to "Gallenica", Telekom, "Aeroengineering" and some other companies and companies. I was directed to cooperate and help many people in charge. Unfortunately, individuals wanted the whole action to be reduced to punishing and taxing about tens to hundreds of people, and thus to the simplest distraction of the people. Some of the ministers, members of the Commission, did not receive any of the only information requested, with their signature on the report they themselves confirmed that the teams at whose head they had least done. In return, I gave them information, with a desire to help them with the work they're doing. I even warned individuals with official correspondence that it was not good for them to ignore the start of work. Instead of accepting well-intentioned suggestions, they fought back, fiercely and insidiously, forgetting the collegiation and promises we had previously made to the citizens. Because of all this, I knew that the circle of my associates had to be wider, that I had to use the help of some other institutions, especially the public. That's what I was right about, and that's what I was doing. Careful analysts from abroad have found that we have been on the path to better than any country in transition to resolve the burdensome burden of the past all together, even those people who have long acted on the other side of the right to start again. I want to believe that it will continue that way and that nothing will essentially deteriorate in the proposed single tax law. Unfortunately, such announcements have already been made, even announcing a partial exclusion of the public from the Commission's work and placing the embargo on the publication of the data to which it will take place. Dear MPs, instead of discussing curbing the functioning of the mafia and corruption, economic reforms, how to meet the promises we made to the people as soon as possible, how to get to the strong democratic institutions, effectively and socially responsible states, the restored economy and improving the standards of workers, peasants, intellectuals, turn public attention to something that has never happened. The citizens see it and they know it. They can't be swindled anymore. I'm ordering from this place that I don't have much of a function. Even less to the trust of those who have tried in this way to execute my moral discredition and political liquidation. I have once proved that defending political and ethical principles is more important to me than any position. But this time, the initiators of my political execution are dirtier and more unscrupulous. Therefore, no matter what decision has been made, both the Social Democracy and I as its president will not cease to advocate the principles and objectives of the democratic changes launched, the establishment of a rule of law, the quality of every man's life and the social relations in which no one will ever again be exposed to such an attempt by the political and human links I've been exposed to. I could use the same punches, but it doesn't occur to me to do that. And in the roughest sports, there's something called a forbidden zone, a low blow. For the sake of the public, I want to say this -- my monthly income in the government was about 13,000 dinars. I've never used any means of representation. I haven't charged a single diary. I used a lot more party stuff than a government car. I worked without a day's rest, usually full-time. In order for MPs to devote their energy and time to discussing essential issues for our people and the state, I call on you to approach the vote without further discussion. Let me thank all MPs for the terms of understanding and support they have given me these days. To all MPs, of course, who did it. After all, I want to remind you that the people have chosen us, and his will be the last. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8372	Are the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8373	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very good when the Prime Minister says to parliament that his government will avoid any affair, any compromise, that crime and corruption will be avoided. However, in the past few months, the government has already cut so much into corruption and crime and various affairs that it is amazing that today the Prime Minister has not resigned. This is where the Prime Minister asks parliament to replace his vice president, due to an alleged sexual affair, which can be very funny, tragic even, but is not serious enough to give up the debate in this House. It was to be expected that the Prime Minister would open up here issues of an affair for the kidnapping of the Galenika factory. It was carried out by his Justice Minister Vladan Batic and handed it over to Milan Panic, to be subsequently found to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8374	Mr. Seselj, I remind you that there is a motion on the agenda to resolve Mr. Vuk Obradovic and...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8375	That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8376	But even if you're not opening a topic, I'm warning you not to open a discussion of trust to any other minister or government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8377	This is by its nature a debate about the government's trust. When the Prime Minister asks for the vice president's shift, it's a debate on the government's trust, because he proposed the vice president.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8378	You can't interpret that. I gave my first warning. You know very well what's on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8379	I know very well that your goal is to make at all costs an incident so that this debate, for you very uncomfortable, will be terminated. You can take me out of parliament again, because it seems to you the only way to deal with Serbian radicals. I am talking about the government and the motives of submitting this request for the resolution of the Deputy Prime Minister who are unheard of in Serbia's current parliamentary tradition. I'm talking about the government's motives. The Prime Minister seeks the discharge of Vuk Obradovic and does not seek the resolution of Vladan Batic. To measure the weight of both affairs and other affairs, all that is true is what is attributed to Vuko Obradovic. Please, what a warning it is and what a warning it is. What does that mean? Why didn't you order security to stop me from entering parliament? That would be simpler for you. Next, that affair wasn't enough. He's having another sexual affair in the government. Vladan Batic has appointed his mistress, lawyer Oliver Jevtic, as prison manager in Sremska Mitrovica. (Glass - theme. That's not enough either. It is not enough for Zoran Djindjic that he himself is involved in many affairs, both domestic and world presses have already written much about it. Zoran Djindjic is in an affair with Stanko Sutotic -- Caneta, head of the Balkan tobacco mafia. That's what all the world's presses are about, and witnesses, eyewitnesses, and participants are already being liquidated. It came from Montenegro, only a matter of days when it will be done in Serbia. By plane Stanko Sudotica Zoran Djindjic travels officially abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8380	Mr. Seselj, for the second time I warn you, you know very well what is on the agenda. Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8381	It is on the agenda that the Prime Minister's proposal to relieve Vuk Obradovic of his duties.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8382	Well, that's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8383	That's what I'm talking about. That's exactly what I'm talking about, but I know what you're up to, you'd want Djindjic to stay clean, intact by this debate, simply by acclaiming to remove one man, and you think all traces can be hidden under the carpet. I can't hide the tracks under the carpet. You want to get me out of this session, because it's a long agenda. You'd like to end the debate and the other laws. Say it openly, I guess it's clear to the public of Serbia. You are protecting Zoran Djindjic in this way, blocking all media in Serbia. No opposition can answer through any media. Now also forbid in parliament to talk about the government and its president. Why is it not an open question, I ask it, Zoran Djindjic, on his proposal to resolve Vuk Obradovic, why is the issue of Gaš Knezevic and his affairs, from alcohol, to the sale of exams, blackmailing students, etc.? These are all issues that this parliament should discuss. And the key question -- why didn't Zoran Djindjic submit a proposal to resolve Dusan Mihajlovic, who invented an affair with the freezer and corpses? This question should have been raised, not whether Vuk Obradovic offered someone to join their lips. You know, the government is underestimating, underestimating the prime minister, and you're underestimating, as president of the National Assembly, this Parliament. I don't feel bad about Parliament. You underestimate the Serbian people, underestimate the citizens of Serbia, underestimate the Serbian public by such actions. You can tell me a hundred warnings, and I'm ready for your bullets, and that's not far, either, but while I'm breathing, I'm going to talk and expose all your criminal affairs. Here you're trying to blur the public's eyes with a once-in-a-lifetime affair, to make it easier for you to go through these real, criminal affairs that you don't look back at at all. You think it can be pushed under the carpet. Why did the Prime Minister, instead of Vuk Obradovic's question, not ask his active deputy, Vladimir Popovic - Baby, today's main living criminal in Serbia? That was supposed to be discussed. Why not ask the question of Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, who promised to resign by May 15th if the kidnapping of Milorad Miskovic is not illuminated. He didn't resign until today. They do, though, some people in prison, one of them, so-called. The Japanese government, which has kidnapped Miskovic and kidnapped five to eight million marks, is the best man of the Burgija brothers, who are the closest associates of Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8384	Mr. Seselj, in a minute, I'll take your word from you, unless you finally get to what's on the agenda. You know very well what is on the agenda, please submit a proposal, as you have tabled proposals for the resolution of a number of ministers so far, it will come on the agenda, please submit a motion to resolve the Government, discuss when it is on the agenda. You know what it is today, and I'm warning you one last time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8385	You can warn me of my will. It is on the agenda for Zoran Djindjic to be resolved by Vuk Obradovic. I'm talking about the motives of Zoran Djindjic and you have no right to prevent me from talking about his motives, which have created such a proposal. You have no right. These are the motives of Zoran Djindjic to prevent the Commission, chaired by Vuk Obradovic, from doing its job to the end. The Commission cannot complete the job unless it examines the role of all actors in various criminal affairs in the last 10-15 years. Not only can some of the people of the old regime be involved in these affairs, as many of the current regimes are involved. No past affair can be investigated until the end, which was the commission's task, while investigating the affair with the company Lutra, owned by Dusan Mihajlovic. That company, Lutra, was getting money from the primary show, according to the official course. He recently received a million marks from the Serbian Development Fund, a credit for the company. What country in the world credits trade in this way? These are the motives of Zoran Djindjic -- it is necessary to politically liquidate the first to oppose, the first to reveal something, the first to point out something, to set an example for everyone else to keep quiet, not to wave, not to produce problems with his government, because his goal is to lord Serbia as a whole. He has already taken over the monopoly on oil trade, a complete monopoly, oil is imported exclusively through Croatia, and there is Stanko Subotić - Cane involved. Now he's taking over the cigarette monopoly. It's all funny, you know, but that's why one day it's gotta fit. You couldn't find me any crime, and I know a lot about your crime, and that's for sure the answer. There is no state in the world where Vladan Batic could go unpunished after the Galenika case. You today have a comfortable majority in parliament to replace Vuk Obradovic. You set him up, you replace him. It's your business, it's none of my business, after all. But you cannot hide the truth from Serbia, and the truth is defeated for you. The government carries a primate in Serbia's criminalisation, as none of the past, and this government, instead of fighting crime, encourages crime. There's been a lot of crime before.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8386	Your time is up, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8387	Are you counting on me for interrupting?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8388	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8389	And why don't you count me in?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8390	Because according to the Rules of Procedure, it counts.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8391	Well, you can't waste my time, Mr. Martian.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8392	And then you stick to the subject. Mr. Seselj, please, or continue with another ten-minute exposure, we'll get to the bottom of this, or get off the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8393	No, with two sentences, I'll finish my first presentation, and I'll announce to you in good time, Mr. Martian, if you don't mind and if you have patience, two more sentences. Do you have patience?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8394	You're so cute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8395	What? Do I take that as a compliment, Mr. Martian? Today, in front of the Serbian public, you will once again show the true face. If Djindjic succeeds in replacing Vuk Obradovic today, it will mean that Serbia is threatened by an even greater darkness than that of the previous one, to whom electricity restrictions were not sufficient. But Serbia will emerge from every darkness, Serbia has surfaced under Broz's regime, so it will certainly surface beneath Djindjic. You're not gonna make it. You now carry out force, willfulness, and earlier, but know that the devil's seeds sow and you'll have to reap it afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8396	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary group answering for a word? He has the word Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8397	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, the honourable fellow Members of the People, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, the MPs of this assembly today are in a very inexplicable and ungrateful situation. We are today practically in the capacity of the judge to decide on the political career of the Deputy Prime Minister, his honor, and this is the day to be debated. Unfortunately, we as judges don't have any evidence. There are two issues in this case. One thesis is a so-called sexual affair, for which there is no evidence, and the other thesis is that the Deputy Prime Minister was all set up because, apparently, by his work in the Commission for the Study of Corruption, he stepped on someone from the Government or someone close to the Government, but we have no evidence for that either. It's really very hard to talk about today. I think there are far more important problems ahead of us than this problem, which we have discussed and which we still need to talk about. I will not list these problems, but we are all aware of them, starting with Kosovo and Metohija, to economic reforms and to how they live in Serbia today. No SS MP will ever come forward to discuss this issue again. But we should be aware that if this affair broke out at the very top of the government, regardless of whether it was a sexual or staged affair, then the whole government should resign. That's how it's done in many democratic countries. I think we should talk about it today. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will not vote at the request of the Government, on this matter, and as we vote on it, we will decide at the end of this debate, which I would really like not to be extensive, because I think the people have had enough affairs and that we should do much smarter things than this topic today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8398	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? If not, the first registered MP is Jelena Milenkovic. According to the Rules of Procedure? Just one moment, Miss Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8399	My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, by reporting to the People's MP, or former MP, and by accepting that she discusses, Jelena Milenkovic, was injured by Article 81. The Rules of Procedure, which says only MPs, government representatives and other persons invited by the president can participate in the work of the National Assembly. Day 10. 05. In 2001, by the chairmanship of the Social Democracy, it was delivered to the president of the Serbian Parliament that the authorities were in charge of Social Democracy and Miss Jelena Milenkovic, and four MPs, Meha Omerovic, Rodoljub Sabic, Natasa Milojevic and Branko Gligoric, were expelled from the party. In accordance with Article 88. Law on the election of MPs, at the moment of exclusion of MPs from a political organisation on the basis of membership which he received as a candidate as an MP, ceases his mandate, as the National Assembly in the next session only observes. I think it was time enough for the Administrative Committee to meet, to establish information and to inform the MPs that these five candidates, or MPs, would not have the right to participate in the work of the Assembly. I think by giving Miss Jelena Milenkovic's word, article 81 has been broken. The Rules of Procedure on Labour and I ask that the Assembly declare this, as I ask for an explanation as to why the Administrative Board has so far failed to do what it was meant to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8400	I owe it again as usual, to answer my remarks regarding the violation of the Rules of Procedure. You yourself answered that question, you know that the National Assembly, so neither do I as chairman, as president of the Assembly, have any official document regarding the status of MPs. So that's what you said yourself. I don't know what else to tell you, except that they have the status of MP in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and nothing more than that. If you insist, I'll put it on a statement. I'm putting forward a proposal -- just to see which member -- what did you say, Article 81, please make a statement on the proposal whether there was a breach of Rule 81's Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I ask the Members of Parliament to declare themselves by voting. For a vote of 58, against 115, with abstention13, did not vote 23, and a total of 209 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8401	Mr. President, under Article 71. Rules of Procedure, you have the right to request a session of the Administrative Committee, if the President will not hold a session. You must always be alert to the law and to the Rules of Procedure, to control their strict implementation, and as soon as you are informed that some MPs have been expelled from a particular party, or that they have ceased their membership in the party, you have automatically had to insist that this be carried out through the committee in charge, and the committee only to inform the National Assembly. Of course, there's precedent for this kind of behavior. And the socialists did so in time with Glamoman, with similar ones. There is also precedent regarding the Democratic Party of Serbia -- when Vladan Batic turned away from them and refused to hand over his mandate, so he stayed with the Socialists until the end of his term to sit in this parliament, the law was violated. But the fact that it was previously precedentd, with a violation of the law, can't be an excuse for you to break the law now. The law says that someone who is excluded from the party can no longer be an MP. You had to do it right away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8402	I will really end my tolerance when it comes to the abuse of the rights of MPs to report to the Rules of Procedure. You, of course, know that everything that has been said has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure or the law. I read it well, you read it one more time. You know very well, of course, you're right that the president can call a session when the board president won't invite her, but you also know very well that the Management Board has had countless sessions, that everything that was on the agenda has been discussed and that this committee is working. You also know very well that the president of the National Assembly is not the one who cares about law enforcement in this country. Therefore, I ask you not to abuse... There's no replica, for God's sake, let's stop abuse of parliamentary rights and get on with our work. The word has a folk MP Jelena Milenkovic, followed by MP Dragan Milentjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8403	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Ministers, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, I speak as an MP for Social Democracy. The truth is, there is one member of Social Democracy among us, and that is Mr. Vuk Obradovic. We're talking about a purely moral issue today, and it's no wonder that one of us is trying to transfer this moral question to another level because there's no competence to talk about morality. Ten last years we've been listening to all kinds of conspiracy stories, and as things stand today, some of these stories haven't been enough in ten years. It's not a matter, gentlemen of the people, of any conspiracy, it's just the following: I've never kept my mouth shut about what's happening around me, and I've never kept my eyes closed to reality. And I've never run away from a problem, no matter what kind of problems these problems are, especially those whose possible non-resolvement to that extent would bring my existence down to a level that is not worthy of man and to that extent characterizes my character. Sometimes, however, it seems that it is much smarter to keep quiet and mind your own business, as our people like to say. For ten and more years, some have been minding their own business and living some of their little lives, thinking that madness, fear, and death happen to other people. Then this ring of accident and death, lies so narrowed down that it included almost all citizens of Serbia. I don't think compassion is a noble feeling, on the contrary. I don't think compassion is what it takes to make a man stand up to the injustices that some other people have done. It's not called compassion, gentlemen Members of Parliament, it's called responsibility. Serbia will not become a normal democratic country in which justice and order will rule, in which an individual, in which no one will feel threatened, unless everyone assumes responsibility for their actions and if others are not so responsible as to remind those first to have to take the responsibility. I know it's hard to change established habits, but the changes that happened in our society on October 5th encourage me to believe that we want to build together a democratic state where we can live normally. October 5th assures me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that a period of half-dominated, double-faced, silence and fear has finally begun. The silence doesn't solve problems, on the contrary. If you don't talk about them, that doesn't mean they're gone. They're just escalating and becoming, therefore, more difficult to solve. Neither I nor my colleagues wanted any of us to keep quiet about what we are actually discussing today, and what we are doing today, I am actually looking at as a kind of contribution to the fight against that Serbia, fear of death, and silence, gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament. No more untouchable, even though they were party presidents and senior state officials. No one, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has betrayed Vuk Obradovic. Vuk Obradovic betrayed us, he betrayed Social Democracy, he issued that version of Serbia we fought for together. You, Wolf of Obradovic, are no match for the changes you have fought for, not at all. Often repeated words by Mr. Obradovic that no one can be outside or above the law are now just an empty letter on paper. Serbia does not change by speaking phrases, Serbia is changing very consistently by implementing decisions on paper, what exists on paper. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Obradovic has first and foremost broken your well-known vow, and that vow is - the power will not change me. Mr. Obradovic believed that he could be sultan and that the government carried with it all the powers and even the powers to endanger other people's integrity, dignity, morals and honors. Mr. Obradovic has abused his official position in the most harsh way possible. Often Mr. Obradovic notes that I was his daughter, that he touched me with fingertips how gentle he was to me. I don't deny it, but I note that I didn't come to the party to look for my father because I have my own father. For what other girls accuse him of, Obradovic says he has nothing to be ashamed of. That's true and he's right. He's not ashamed, but there's a question of whether or not we should be ashamed of such things. Anyone in the dilemma of what happened in Mr. Obradovic's cabinet, whether it was a harmless attack or a reflection of courtship and tenderness, may imagine at the scene of his wife's associate, her daughter, her sister in the situation as Mr. Obradovic pulls your head towards genitals, so that from the resistance that you provide you with the bruises on your neck, that while you go on the official road he rips socks from the front seat, he puts a bully's thumb in your mouth while you're against the wall, and a lot else I can't say about this payphone. The adoption of such logic would legalise the right of the wedding night for each party leader and would legalise a new period of slavery at the beginning of the JJ century. We said no to that kind of behavior and that sort of thing, not to Mr. Obradovic. None of us fought for office, and now we are fully prepared to respect the court of the majority, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but the question is, what would have happened if we had kept quiet about this? If we had kept silent about this, none of us would no longer have the right to claim to the citizens of Serbia that it stands for Serbia in which justice will rule, for the state in which the rules of conduct, which are binding for all, for each of us, and which primarily implies respect for the integrity of every man's personality and dignity, regardless of his position, gender, age or nation. It's just that that's what it's all about, whether we're going to be two-faced and keep quiet about things we know about, or at all risk we're going to say that things are standing, and things are exactly the way we told the citizens of Serbia a month ago. I believe that we have acted as responsible people, and this responsibility is not just about humanity. To this responsibility, above all, they commit the functions we are in today, but they also commit responsibility to the citizens of Serbia who have chosen us and who we have promised to live in a normal state, unlike the one we have lived in during the past decade. Such a state, along with Serbian citizens, can only be built by responsible politicians. If Mr. Obradovic's entire life has not learned that truth is much better than lies, and that courage is much better than cowardice, then I will not, in his late 50s, convince him. I am also sure that the citizens of Serbia will realize that after 5 October, democracy has actually experienced its great, first of its major, victory in Serbia, because it is actually being debated in parliament today, which shows that there is no untouchable and that the rules apply to all. It is proof that the new democratic government keeps the promises made before the September elections and that we will still live in a country in which the law, in which human rights will become sacred. I have tried my best, honourable Members of the people, to be objective and not speak out of the narrowest interests. Some of you may resent me for some parts of my speech, but what I am convinced of is that, however, most of us will agree on what constitutes the essence of my exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8404	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8405	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have reported that in connection with the violations of the Rules of Procedure under Rule 71. For your sake and for my sake, I would like to read this article 71 that says - the chairman of the committee is required to convene a committee session at least one third of the total number of board members, or a third of the full composition of the board within the meaning of Articles 25 and 43. The Rules of Procedure, as well as at the request of the President of the National Assembly. If it does not do so within the requested time limit, the committee shall convene the deputy chairman of the committee or the chairman of the National Assembly. "We have heard from the MPs here, Mr. President, that on May 10th you received a personal request from Social Democracy. During the session, as he is now on his way, especially with the emotional exposure of the previous MP, whom I fully understand, he assures me that you have not prepared this session well. You, as President of the Assembly, have been obliged, if you have received this information that you have received, to request a meeting of the Administrative Committee and not to bring us Members into a very unpleasant situation. I want to say that SPS MPs have come to this session ready not to engage at all in the debate. It's just that we think that all that's been going on is a matter of social democracy. As far as we can understand and understand, these things are resolved in Social Democracy. We thought we'd be kept here, because finally, this is a matter of the majority DOS coalition. We need to note that the DOS coalition is acting as a politburo of the CK SK in 1972. We have to notice that polythyroids, even in speeches here, speak pure Stalinist, Leninistic sentiments. We came here not to answer the word at all and to be held back, because this is the DOS thing. But the words spoken for this speaker, because the session is not prepared, will force us all to answer the word. Because if we're going to talk about the past 10 years, gentlemen, and how responsible it's been for the past 10 years. If we're going to talk about the extra income tax law, then we're going to say, we're going to support that law, we're going to support everything that you suggested to be taxed, which is built through institutional frameworks. But you didn't suggest anything for the gray economy, and two-thirds of the income was the grey economy, because of the embargo. Therefore, Mr. President, I suggest that the session be suspended on the basis of this Rules of Procedure. You're May 10th, if it's true what Ambassador Seselj said, have been informed of this. Let the Administrative Committee meet. As far as I know, it's a party to decide on MPs, not us from other parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8406	I would very much like to do so and accept your suggestion if the Administrative Board had something to decide on. The case is at the Department of Justice. Until the Justice Department decides, in accordance with the law, what is the status in Social Democracy... You can yell all you want, but that's the way it is. As far as the Committee is concerned, the Committee had a session on Saturday and if it had something to decide on, it would have decided. It has nothing to do with the president of the assembly. The word is Mr. Seselj, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8407	Mr. President, since Branislav Ivkovic had just read a provision that I had recently called upon, I am now also calling on the provision of Article 28, which states that you are to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. President, you have now said something that cannot survive in legal traffic, which we must warn people not to believe. The Ministry of Justice can't deal with parliament. The Justice Department can't be an arbitration officer in this case, because the Justice Department is an executive authority. The executive power cannot be above Parliament. You've noticed well - the government can't determine the salaries of the MPs. And in particular, the minister of justice cannot determine who will be an MP and who won't, and to arbitration in the domestic party affairs. The highest authority of each party is the board of directors, the central administration or perhaps somewhere in the central committee. These are the highest organs. They probably decide, not the presidency or commission or advice, etc. You should respect what the party's main authority here delivers to you and forward to the competent authority, the committee, insisting that the committee take its position as soon as possible, not to wait for the minister of justice. He's not gonna let the Justice Minister decide who's an MP here, who's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8408	Of course you're right that the Ministry is no older than Parliament, as a neuropsychiatrist is no older than parliament, but if someone is deprived of their ability to work, it cannot be a national MP, e.g. That doesn't mean that the neuropsychiatrist is older than the parliament. The word has a minister of justice, Mr Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8409	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to resolve this dilemma. Of course, the Ministry of Justice has nothing to do with the mandates of MPs in the National Assembly, nor is it a subject that the Ministry of Justice is involved in at all. That's one thing. The second thing, DOS MPs are DOS MPs. There was one electoral list of the Democratic opposition to Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica. Read the little election law. Therefore, DOS authorities decide on the mandates of DOS MPs, not individual parties, DOS members. Now you have a report on the resignation of MP Borisvoj Mijatovic, in which he writes exactly what I'm saying. The mandates will first be decided by the Republic Election Commission, after which the Administrative Committee of Parliament and Parliament will be declared. Therefore, neither is the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, nor do they decide individually on their bodies and bodies, parties, members of the DOS, but DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8410	Mr. Vuk Obradović has the word
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8411	The ministry of justice and local self-government has been asked by a group of now former members of the Social Democracy to change the authorised person in the register of political organisations. This is the question to which the Ministry of Justice and local self-government should answer - is this request founded or not established? And if justice were, in five minutes, the question would be answered, because there is no party in the world, nor on our political stage, in which the president, elected by Congress and only he has the right to change, can change a group of 15 people along with one political executive, who, in addition, on the previous day are relieved of these duties and excluded from the party. I don't know why he's not really responding to that request, but I also remind Mr. President of the Assembly and the other MPs, that the Assistant Minister of Justice has already announced that the matter is in no way controversial. The president of Social Democracy is Vuk Obradovic and no one else. As it is by law, so is man and God's justice. As for the interpretation of Mr Batic, that the parliamentary mandates -- the DOS mandates -- I will remind him of the fact that, along with the application of the Democratic Opposition's electoral list, the coalition agreement, which literally states that each party, a member of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, is autonomous in the choice of people to represent it in parliament. And if that is not precise and clear enough, please Mr Batic and ask all of you to take a look at yesterday's story from the People's Newspaper in Nis, in which the leadership of the Christian Party gives an adequate interpretation of these things, due to the events in their party there.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8412	The word has a folk MP Dragan Milentijevic, followed by a folk MP, Ljubvoje Slavkovic. (From place: you should make a statement about the proposal. ( b) What should I say? I don't propose a session interruption, the board of directors' session will be held and scheduled for today at 1200 hours. If they have anything to discuss, they'll discuss it. They discuss laws and deal with serious things. This is not on the agenda at all what you're opening right now. Don't play with parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8413	The Honorable Presidency, respected members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the cause of today's debate of sexual abuse of women by a high-ranking party official. It is a new and unusual topic for Serbia. The problem exists in Serbia, and I find it politically necessary to open a discussion about it. Today, however, we are not talking about the criminal responsibility of a senior state official. This will be discussed and decided before the competent judicial authorities. We're talking about his political responsibility today. This political responsibility is expressed through Mr Obradovic's actions, and what I will talk about. It all started out with something that reminded me of a time ago. Blanko support, ultimatums, those are the things we fought against. What happened to the Municipal Committee in Prokuplje has been happening to many committees in Serbia. On Monday, May 7th, the party president's invitation to receive a blank support request followed and no comment was needed. It's something that also looks like a past tense. Blanko's support should never be again. On Monday, in the early morning, the next day, all the boards received faxes on which there was a sample sample, and this sample looked like the Cukarica Municipal Committee sent support to Mr. Vuk Obradovic. All other committees were to send such or similar support. The municipal board in Prokuplje didn't do it. He was very responsible the same day at night to discuss the problem in Social Democracy. We simply at that point, but also other municipal committees across Serbia, did not control the information, and I responsibly argue that, therefore, we did not have reliable information. So it was very unserious. Again, it's very unserious to ask anyone for support when he doesn't have the right information. I said already, the Municipal Committees sat down and eventually made the only possible decision, voted and out of 38 present, 34 declared to remain abstentioned, i.e. Not that we don't have our own political position, but that we're looking for the formation of a committee, and many have called it a polling committee. He'd be looking into the whole case. It was simply our wish that this problem remain the problem of Social Democracy, that we, as a serious political party, solve it within our own party. As we made our decision on the Municipal Committee, we acted the next day on the General Committee, which was held on Tuesday. The municipal board did not vote on the party's trust either, but did not vote when the party's president wanted to exclude 15 of its closest associates. So we were very principled. The main board, which was held on Tuesday, unfortunately, also resembles some past times. I'll tell you why. The beginning of the session itself, the behavior towards 15 members of the presidency, and especially the behaviour towards the ladies, the possibility of them getting just three minutes to speak, personal to past times. It's not, and I think that's the worst thing that's allowed to be done by the members of the board present. So in addition to 190 members of the General Committee, how many Social Democracys are there, and they are from the narrow and expanded composition of the General Committee, and at least 60,70 people have been salinised. So there was no calling. And I've already said, how did the Municipal Committee behave in Prokuplje? Similarly, many committees within Serbia have acted on the main committee. Many were restrained. On Thursday, as happened to the municipal board in Krusevec - Brus, Alexandrovac, Novi Belgrade, Belgrade, Novi Sad, a committee disbanded. This is a topic just because I talk about political responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8414	You're talking about party issues, it's really not a topic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8415	On Thursday, the Municipal Committee in Prokuplje was disbanded and three members of the Municipal Committee, me as the chairman of the Regional Committee and the president of the Assembly of the Municipality of Prokuplje, the chairman of the Municipal Committee and the chairman of the Executive Committee of the Municipal Committee in Prokuplje. That's what an illegal committee did to me. What has happened and I will only mention, as a man who thinks it was also political responsibility, is an attack on a high-ranking federal official, secretary for informing Slobodan Orlic, while hosting Top TV in Prokuplje. It may be that the party president didn't order something like that, but I'm sure he knew about something like that. Why is there political responsibility? It exists precisely because of the contents of the letter sent to television. TV TOP 3, Prokuplje, editor-in-chief: "Dear Sir, we have been informed that on television whose editor you are tonight will be visiting Slobodan Orlic, a former member of Social Democracy. This letter is what we protest for. Dear editor, we understand that TV is TOP 3 commercial television, but we don't understand that you will allow falseness from anyone for anyone and thus allow the execution of a crime, for which you will bear the law of the intended responsibility. That's why we're asking you not to work your scheduled show tonight or at any time. Dear editor, we expect you to follow our request. Otherwise, the Municipal Committee of Social Democracy will call on its sympathisers and members and other citizens to prevent the entry of Free Orlic into TOP 3. Also, Mr. Editor, we're going to ask a committee question, who ordered and paid on TV TOP 3 or paid for it, whose money was ordered for the show. In the signature, the illegal committee of Social Democracy and its president." So, there's political responsibility here, precisely because this hosting could have led to a serious incident, and I don't think it was anyone's interest. Of course, Mr. Orlic notes that such things have never happened in a while. I think this procedure actually shows something quite different. You've seen that many times in my presentation I mentioned some past tense. I ask the People's MPs not to behave like this anymore, but to turn to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8416	The word has the People's MP Ljubivova Slavkovic, followed by MP Marko Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8417	My colleagues and colleagues, it's hard for me, and I've spoken a million times in front of much more important meetings, that after the story of my friend from Procuring anything I say. I don't think the Assembly should be involved during the session of the board of directors. I chaired that session. I'm a living witness to that, we've all stayed until the end of the board of directors, and before the vote, a group of our friends, who have been disfellowshipped, left the session. So they attended the entire session and did not advertise the number of board delegates, so that it would be a case for the Assembly now. By the way, to return to what is important - Mr. Prime Minister, you have made it very incompetent, politically irresponsible, you have spoken to the courts about the situation in Social Democracy and that this is one of the reasons why you are looking for the shift of Vuk Obradovic. I am informing you, very responsible, that the situation in Social Democracy is excellent, that all city and municipal committees are, and there are about 130, on the side of the preservation of Social Democracy. We defend Social Democracy. We're defending the idea. We're defending the program. And, let me tell you more -- I don't care about Vuk Obradovic. Let him defend himself. But where it is to defend itself, where both you and I, speaking at the myths in Piroth, Chačka, and in many other places, have advocated that there is finally a judiciary in this country, that the law is respected, that courts establish truth and justice without us making political decisions. What we have brought, which you have decided mostly not to put on the agenda, i.e. that the Commission on Budgetary Affairs, or the Administrative Committee, has not done what is right, has thus confirmed that you are being defined for the illegal work of the Assembly. Because if the gentleman, today, was resolved, I think his name is Borisvoje Mijatovic, filed after us, so the Committee could also consider the social democracy request and there was no reason for that. If the ministry finds another way or cause and annuls the decision of the legal authorities, it will be a matter of correcting the decision. I don't think there was any reason for that. Here we have shown that most of the people we have here are doing something that looks like the times against which we gentlemen, sitting here, have been very hearty about walking Serbia and talking to citizens. So the situation in Social Democracy is excellent. Perhaps, Mr. President, yesterday you received a letter from the Women's Forum, attended by 250 women of Social Democracy, who was busy with an affair that was imputed. For the sake of truth, and in order for you fellow MPs to know, and the Serbian public, not once, I look into everyone's eyes, is not a group -- members of the Social Democracy presidency -- asking for this to be discussed in our bodies, the party's presidency. That's what I'm familiar with two days before it all came out in public. Just two days. It was said literally by Mr Gligoric -- we will ask Vuk Obradovic to resign as party president, we will not touch him, he can stay in the government. That's literally what I'm saying. I said we're going to Vuk Obradovic's to talk to him at the presidency. He doesn't - he says - talk, he has to do that. Wait, Mrs. Nestorovic, is it possible, if your dignity is injured, if what happened to you, will you be satisfied that Vuk Obradovic will no longer be party president, and thus your vanity, your dignity will be preserved. Obviously, it looked like another story, not what really happened. Especially what, if it ever happened, happened a few months before it went public. I have one more thing to tell you -- ten days before this went public, at the Bureau's session is a matter of my responsibility. Mr. Vuk Obradovic sat there, first of all, asked his brother Obradovic to reduce the criticism of his work or I would be deprived of my mandate in this assembly. Where were my friends that I sat in the presidency with for years? I was the fiercest policy critic Vuk Obradovic ever led, especially the human policy. If I was right, you can see it now. Therefore, I can't be imputed to being in a group of air-conditioned, semitrons, creeps and those who used everything in the party -- both functions, and money, and resources, and everything. They did it today. This isn't done spontaneously. When someone picks up all the programs from the computer, when someone takes the stamp, when someone steals the money, when someone takes away the cash register, when they take away the complete personnel lists, it means it wasn't spontaneous, it was being prepared for what was being prepared in Social Democracy. And it's not true that it all happened because there was an alleged sexual affair. It is not by chance, in the Social Democracy, that this happened at the moment when the law that we are going to discuss these days entered the assembly procedure, when the information about the Commission's report, which was being conducted in the last month and what it had found, slowly began to pass. I don't understand, Mr. Prime Minister, how on one of these very harmless reports, as far as national security and state secrets are concerned, that such a harmless report could find a seal - a state secret - confidential. As a member of the JNA, I'm a little bit more focused on some things and I know what a state secret is and how it's kept. The report I read absolutely does not look like something that should be a state secret. And, in the end, I have to say, if someone abused women, this time they were abused by the Federal Secretary of Information, Mr. Orlic. I'm ashamed of you, Mr. Prime Minister, how much we fought for, and for the illustrative Policy, the last edition, the front page to be like that. It doesn't look like the previous regime, it looks like even worse than the previous regime did. It's a shame we don't have any laws. We were against, as we called it in the campaign, Seselj's information law, even though we abolished it, but Mr. Journalists must know - a month I ask to face any of my friends on any of Belgrade's televisions and to defend the arguments. No way. It's an absolute information block. You can't go anywhere. I haven't had a chance to say, except for the provocations here in the hall of the Assembly I've heard. It's not the democracy I fought for. That's not the Serbia I fought for. I will continue to be the fiercest critic of Vuk Obradovic. I would like to say, if a fraction of what is attributed to him is proved, but in a legally established way, we in Social Democracy will tell him the courts he will be ashamed of and his generations. There is no mercy in Social Democracy for no one, nor for Vuk Obradovic. But for those who leave the programme, who think they are all here in Belgrade, who have the courage to call us on our main committee literary primitives, the Seseljski Wing of Social Democracy, maybe even suits me, it doesn't matter, but those who think that everything in Belgrade -- we created Social Democracy in Serbia and don't give it to them. They let them form their own.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8418	Right on the replica, MP Gligorić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8419	Mr. Slavkovic should be ashamed of the amount of demagogy and lies he has brought here before this National Assembly. First of all... if you have something to say.. [[Comment from the O.R. Can't be heard]] Mr. Slavkovic should know that we are well aware that he doesn't care about Mr. Vuk Obradovic, for twenty days when this affair was heard, and when we haven't spoken a word to the public, he told the municipal committees in Serbia about it and I call for the testimony of the president of the Municipality of Brusa, when Slavkovic said in the conversation what his knowledge of the affair was. However, Mr. Slavkovic is in line with those people who, when the session is scheduled, so-called. The main committee, gentlemen, this is not a party matter, and when Mr. Vuk Obradovic is creating an atmosphere of linca, Mr. Slavkovic is the first to stand up and run and join that group of supporters of Vuk Obradovic who speak next - I would like to sit there, next to Mr. Obradovic, even if they have touched me and loved me. Secondly, a man who goes out and says that he has four daughters and that if one of those four daughters were to complain to him, I would rather trust Mr. Obradovic than the daughters, that speaks enough about the atmosphere Mr. Slavkovic supported and now he's talking about something else here. [[Cheese - replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8420	I didn't hear you mention it. The word has the People's Messenger Marko Jaksic, and I do not allow you, I do not give you the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8421	When it comes to a moral issue, in the context of all of our things, I reckon there are more important things than all of this going on in one room, cabinet, or some community committee. We have made various important decisions here that the Assembly and the Government are against the introduction of customs duties, and here we have one piece of paper that says that Dejan Popovic, deputy finance minister, is for customs to be placed along the administrative line. I even have an order here or Mr. Kouchner's regulation, which says it doesn't have to be along the administrative line. That's why I think, if that's a moral question, if we have to make a statement about it, I think there are more important things for this Serbia and this people. Today in Mitrovica 10. Thousands of people protest, people are on customs, and we're actually doing what UNMIK says. I don't know what changed in a month, so we broke the Parliament's decision and a member of the government made a different decision. I ask the Ministry of Finance and the Serbian Government itself to make a clear and loud statement - whether they are to introduce customs, down towards Mitrovica, i.e. towards Kosovo, or aren't they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8422	This has been a discussion off topic. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that Serbia has far more important topics than today's agenda. The agenda is dictated by the government and the president of the National Assembly. Of course, in normal congregations, and all other authorised promoters. But it really seems to me that in times like this, in times of crisis like this, we have had far more important things, much smarter things to discuss. Unfortunately, we have heard numerous insults from the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sorry he's not here, so I'd ask him, except he's cursing his mother to all the MPs, and that's not so bad, he's walking away from the man...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8424	Please return to the topic and do not address the president, as you said yourself, you can see that he is not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8425	I'm talking to the people and the National Assembly. I'm talking to someone who's doing such a responsible function, but please don't interrupt me, I didn't say three words. I'm not talking for a minute. I didn't say anything offensive. You're breaking up with me right now. Well, it doesn't make sense. Mr. Seselj is talking about a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he's being interrupted. Immediately behind this is the second MP, according to the same member of the Rules of Procedure, you do not interrupt him. So please, a little patience. I would like you, or the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to state yourself - which one of us is the case for a neuropsychiatrist, if any, then it should not be in this assembly. But if he didn't, then whoever said it should go to the neuropsychiatrics, and in any case, he'd have to leave the place he's sitting today. I would ask you, therefore, and whoever sat before you in that place, never to mention such insults again, that you do not think that these are your success jokes and that you do not think that in such a way you can talk to the representatives of the people. We may be bad, you may like the haystacks, but our people here have chosen the most difficult conditions, when you've conducted the real heist. You have to respect that. As for what's on the agenda today, there are a number of reasons why this could be on the agenda. One of these reasons is the one the Prime Minister spoke of, saying Mr. Obradovic sexually harassed women. I have a son, I don't have a daughter. Why do I say that? Because people say only those who have daughters can know women well enough and can understand all that well enough, all the problems they face and all their reactions. I'm not going to get into this -- what's really been going on, and I can't know what's been going on. I wish none of what was said was true, but it will be determined by the competent judicial authorities. But there are many doubts here about everything that has been said and everything that the Prime Minister has spoken of. On the aside that the Prime Minister said that one of the reasons for Mr. Obradovic's shift was that he was appointed by the DOS presidency. I must tell him that Mr Obradovic, including Mr Djindjic, did not name this central committee, but was chosen by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is still not the SSRN, which is neither the CK, but is the highest representation of the people and citizens of Serbia. There is a huge difference between naming and choosing, especially between the DOS presidency and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I do not accept being DOS presidency, but I am a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, voting - yes, or voted - against. Do not humiliate or underestimate the National Assembly in such a way. Mr. Djindjic says -- well, that's because the media called, and it hurt the government. The media is asking around, Mr. Djindjic, just what you want them to talk about, and how you want them to write. Here's what I'm going to tell you as an example - we've had a debate here about the confidence of Minister Vladna Batic. That night I came home tired and about half-one -- not five, not six, and I couldn't even watch the news, after asking around, so I heard how it was on other TVs -- watching the news of a private Belgrade TV, TV Pink, on which, without an insider, Petar Lazovic delivered it through Vladimir Popovic's tape, to broadcast the entire speech of Vladan Batic, but there is no response from the Serbian Radical, or anything we talked about. Is that what the press is about, or what the media is talking about? Was that the same case on this issue, or on many other issues? I can't believe everything that's been said, because it mentions Slobodan Orlic, a man who went public the other day with a statement, in which he spoke about Vojislav Seselj. He condemns, as the federal secretary, journalist and journalist, Vojislav Seselj, who attacked journalists. He's lying. He's lying, that's a mild word for what he did. Vojislav Seselj may not have seen any of these, I don't know, but I'm sure, because I listened to what was going on, so I know he wasn't involved at all. Why don't you tell the public what happened? Don't laugh, there was a poor woman, a martyr - a woman who lost her only son in Kosovo. She insulted a journalist, took out a picture of that son and insulted her. It's not funny. And that's why you ordered the President of the Fourth Municipal Court to press charges against Vojislav Seselj, and then talk about morality.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8426	Mr. Wolfie, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8427	Then you will talk about the morality and active legitimacy of those who today represent the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It would be good for some who have turned their sleeves, and have come in shirts to the National Assembly, to come out here to speak for a pay phone, not to get out of place, because they are obviously neither cultured enough, nor civilized, and especially not smart, so that they can address the people, except to earn and yell from the place. As for the stories that have already been told from this pay phone, the most talk was about what happened in past times, what is in today, and what should be in future times, what it has brought and what it has not brought on October 5th. I just have to say, there was no discussion about this before, because there were no cases like this. If something like this had happened, it probably would have been. There is one debate, which is very important to be conducted, about which there have been cases and speeches and much earlier, which is a question of the work of the Administrative Committee and of who has the right to elect MPs. We've had these kinds of problems many times, both in the federal parliament, and in the republican parliament. We thought that the DOS might not repeat what happened to the SPS once, which used it in a certain way -- he likes one idea, so he abuses some MPs and uses them for his own purposes, even though they've been chosen on the parliamentary list by a completely different political party, but it's obvious that this is happening today. Obviously nothing has changed about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8428	Mr. Vukic, on the basis of article 101, I give you a warning, because despite the warning, you do not stick to the topic of the agenda. First warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8429	Thank you, I don't know what else to tell you, but it's interesting to me that you haven't warned anyone who's spoken exclusively for 10 minutes about the Social Democracy Committees, which has nothing to do with the subject, and for what has directly to do with who and who it represents in the National Assembly, on this subject, you're giving me a warning. May it serve you honour, both to you and to those who brought you here and set you up. I'd like to say one more thing. We can read from Kostunica and Djindjic's press, absolutely conducted, several statements by Mr. Obradovic in which he said there was a significant problem about Galenika, which we could see for ourselves at one of the previous sessions. What happened here? Remember, for years we've been listening to the story of how the state kidnapped Milan Panic's private capital. For years, it has been advertised in all newspapers, on all televisions, on radio stations in Serbia. Indeed, the people may have thought at some point: well, look, maybe the state kidnapped that private, maybe took something from him. But when it was found that it was just a simple but large caliber, a thief, that without anything, without a dinar, he took one factory, it was more serious problems...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8430	Mr. Wolfie, I'm giving you a second warning, and you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8431	Why did you tell me now?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8432	Mr. Wolfie, you've exceeded your time I've given you two warnings and I think you should step away from the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8433	Why did you give me a warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8434	Because you didn't stick to the subject and now you're out of time. I'm taking your word and asking you to leave the pay phone. The word has a folk MP, Stevo Dragisic, and the next reported for discussion is MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8435	Ladies and gentlemen, the motion to resolve the vice-president of the Republic Government has been submitted, as we could hear, for moral reasons. Moral reasons prompted the Prime Minister to seek his government's vice president's discharge. In order for someone to seek someone’s solution for moral reasons, he would have to be a moral cleaning man, and all those who support him in that attitude would have to be morally clean, without any affairs, without any stains, without any moral violations in the past, not just in performing their functions since they were on it. Then we should question both the Prime Minister and the other members of the government, except in this case the women, members of the female government, so all the men of the government, how many times have they tried courting. How many times have they failed in this attempt, who they courted, what kind of courtship it turned out to be, whether or not it was a problem I can't believe, and I'm willing to argue, that there is a member of the government who hasn't tried to court a woman in his life. Maybe those they claim to be different sexual orientations, but I mean heterosexuals here, of course. So, the hand to shift Vuk Obradovic for moral reasons can only raise one who is morally clean in this regard. However, since it is, of course, about people who have had similar attempts in their lives, assuming that this is exactly what they're saying about Vuk Obradovic, there have been several things that have become facts that indicate that the reasons are not, therefore, that this is not about moral initiatives, but about dealing with the Deputy Prime Minister. It seems that this is about dealing with Vuko Obradovic, not only as Deputy Prime Minister, but as President of the Commission (who, in her work, came across traces of those now in the government), and with Mr Obradovic as president of Social Democracy, one of the DOS members. In the first sentence of his argument, Mr Djindjic says that the resolution is necessary, so that the government can carry out its tasks uninterruptedly and function according to one of the basic principles - work without scandals and affairs. This is where we find the first inconsistencies - indiscipline. The biggest affair, many of which have followed this government and the previous transitional government since October, has been tied to Zoran Djindjic. Some of the affairs which are a little less intense and a little less criminal qualifications are those related to Vladan Batic, the police minister, to some other ministers, but the name Zoran Djindjic, the Prime Minister, is linked to one of the biggest affairs ever published (which is related to the government), and this is an affair with cigarette smuggling. And worst of all, we have come to some of the data that is in favor of the truthfulness of these claims. There is an indisputable connection between Zoran Djindjic and a certain Sudotic, whose nickname is Cana.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8436	Mr. Dragisic, I warn you to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8437	Are you giving me a warning? So this relationship is undeniable. The link between Zoran Djindjic and cigarette smuggling has been proven in the affair. Whether all the elements of the affair are true or not, we do not know yet, there is no evidence, but his connection with a man who has been designated the chief boss of the tobacco mafia in Serbia is now fully proven. They slowly surface and some other criminal activities that are directly or indirectly related to the name Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8438	Mr. Dragisic, I give you a warning because you still do not stick to the agenda theme, is not a proposal to resolve the Prime Minister, the topic of the agenda. Please, it's the first warning, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8439	So, I can keep going, I only got my first warning. So the principle of government work without scandals and affairs is not respected when it comes to Zoran Djindjic himself. In order for the government to function normally, in this case respecting the principle, the entire government would have to be resolved by the resignation of Zoran Djindjic, only then to choose a new government that would be clean, which would not have affairs, which would not have tails behind it. On the other hand, if Zoran Djindjic is so hard to resign himself and thus prove his involvement in large-scale crime in Serbia, he should at least sanction his ministers' behaviour, say Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8440	I give you a second warning, based on article 101. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8441	That's what we talked about in our proposal for the resolution of Minister Batic. It should be reiterated that Minister Batic proved his propensity for violent behaviour towards the abduction of private property, and worst of all -- his behaviour later turned out to be the wrong attitude of official state authorities. Zoran Djindjic had to do the same in any previous case to justify today's motion for resolution. He had to get rid of Vladan Batic for kidnapping Galenika and giving Milan Panic...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8442	Mr. Dragisic, I take your word for it since you didn't come back on the subject after the warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8443	You're gonna have to kick me out of the session. I'm really sorry, but I'm not leaving the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8444	Please step away from the pay phone. Mr. Dragisic, once again I ask you to leave the pay phone so that I can give my word to your colleague, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic. I shut you down. I can't exclude you from the session, that decision is made by the National Assembly, and I have taken your word and I ask you to step away from the pay phone. If you don't want to step away from the pay phone, I'm setting a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8445	Please confirm the quorum. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8446	Article 28 in relation to Article 98 has been injured. You, Mr. President, and the lady who helps you conduct the session, have established different criteria for determining the consistency of what MPs are talking about with the topic on the agenda. These different criteria differ between yourselves and the points that are on the agenda. Sometimes, when it suits you for your political, party reasons, you allow MPs to also talk about issues that are not on the agenda, and when it does not suit you, such as today, do not allow MPs to say anything that does not exclusively refer to whether they are for a proposal or against a proposal. The interpretation of what is the topic of the agenda, which you are applying today, is exclusively about who is in favour and who is against. If the interpretation comes down to it, then we don't need a debate. Then let's put it to a vote right now and let's say who's in and who's against it and go home. But you, Mr. President, when you allow the discussion and when you tell the MPs that the Prime Minister's proposal on the discharge of the Deputy Prime Minister is on the agenda, then you must know that MPs can talk about everything that is related to the work of the Prime Minister above all, because his proposal was for that man to be elected to the post. When we search this proposal, we will also search for the full Prime Minister, his work and his moral likeness, his involvement in criminal affairs and affairs that are related to him, whether they affect the effective and smooth work of the Government, as he said, that this affair so-called. The sexual affair with Vuko Obradovic affects the normal and efficient work of the government. In our opinion, if we adopt the principle that the government must work without an affair to be effective, then the principle must also apply to an affair directly related to Zoran Djindjic, which is an affair with cigarette smuggling. We have made arguments that contribute to our claim. The arguments presented and evidence drawn from the statements by Zoran Djindjic, from Mr. Sutotic's statement, undoubtedly confirm that there is a link between the government's president and the tobacco mafia. If it's not an affair that's enough... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... that the Prime Minister, by respecting the principle that he himself declared this proposal, resigns, then I don't know what's enough. If that's not in the context of the subject, then you tell me what's in the context of the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8447	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8448	On the other hand, you are covering the Rules of Procedure by narrowing down the subject discussed by the MPs to create an opportunity for you to take away their word and shorten their time of exposure, with the aim of preventing any criticism from the Prime Minister or any other minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8449	Mr. Dragisic, 3.40 minutes, your time for objecting to the Rules of Procedure is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8450	I took 40 seconds away from you, and you owe me four minutes and at least that much now to explain my proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8451	I don't owe you anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8452	You owe, you owe, you're the president of the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8453	Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8454	So, Mr. President, you react a little less when Vladan Batic is mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8455	Mr. Dragosic, please leave the pay phone. (National MP Stevo Dragisic does not leave the pay phone) I propose to the National Assembly to decide on the exclusion of Mr Dragisic from this session. I ask the MPs who have already been taken from this session to get away from the pay phone. I ask the MPs to come forward with my proposal. For 112, against 43, a abstentioned one, did not vote 12, out of the 168 members of parliament present. I find Mr Dragisic's distance has been determined from this session. Please leave the pay phone. (National MP Stevo Dragisic does not leave the pay phone) I am giving the pause necessary to implement this decision by the National Assembly. Please leave the O.R. [[Resume session after break 12.40]] I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum to continue the session. I find that we have a quorum for continuing the session of the National Assembly. The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8457	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today the Prime Minister, Zoran Djindjic, convinces us that we should replace the most responsible Deputy Prime Minister, the one entrusted with the fight against crime, corruption and a ten-year government in which DOS did not participate, to replace him just because the newspapers write bad about him. In fact, it is a shame for one Prime Minister to throw a stone at his Deputy Prime Minister and to have that argument in one sentence. From that sentence, no one who is much wiser than us MPs would find the reasons why this man is being replaced after such euphoria that has been created by the victory of DOS and the revolution of October 5th. If we were to switch from newspaper statements, we wouldn't have a government today. If we, dear gentlemen ministers, Mr. President, appreciated you based on what the papers say, and the papers are under your control, you'd be in prison, not here in the front row of the National Assembly. Because these same newspapers, Mr. President, and you, as the one who suggests that we replace Vuk Obradovic, are placed in the largest mobs, the largest gangs that are now across Serbian countries, and especially in Serbia, are engaged in the kidnapping of money from their citizens. Will I believe what the paper says? Can I believe it? For what they write about you, Mr. Djindjic, I believe everything, and everything is true, and everything is true, because that is what your closest and immediate associates and your actions are talking about. Now I should be thinking about what Vuk Obradovic was doing, which he morally resented for you to forget about corruption, crime, cigarette smuggling and drug trafficking in the government, and only going after one man. You don't mind other ministers who commit crime. You have a problem with Vuk Obradovic, who owed here, at least to me as an MP, to tell you what it really bothers you. Obviously, when she wonders if anyone's going to kiss anyone, that's not the reason for the shift. I guess the one who kissed in June of the month, that he kissed in December, that he kissed in February of the previous year, and that's nothing new to you. I suppose it's time for the government to answer whether it's true, Mr. President, that you'll be handing over Serbs to The Hague without law, that you'll cooperate directly with The Hague? This is a problem for me in this people's congregation, not what you smoke there, what you love, what you drink, who you whom you whom you plant and what you do. That's the problem for me. For me, the problem with how much money Minister Vlahovic took to push Lafarz through, and it gets you involved. That's my problem in this National Assembly. For me, how much trouble has Vladan Batic taken money to kidnap Galenika from the Serb people? That's my problem, Mr. President, and not that you're distracting us here by some member of your government being no longer at your will, so you say - I've set it up, so you say - I've set this point for the fight against bribery and corruption. All of you, Mr. Djindjic. It's too soon for you to rise above the people and above God, Mr. Djindjic. It's too big a pig head machete, Mr. Djindjic, you don't deserve that much. You did not deserve to lead this government of Serbia, nor to discuss the points you propose. But that's how you got together, and now you're going to be counting on each other. You think the people don't know anything, that the people don't see anything, that the people just believe what the ministers say in the newspapers, on the radio, and on television. Life is terrible, life is completely defusing you from day to day. All your attempts, even to convince us that we are better, we have already lived with the bad governments that convinced the people that he was better, and the people didn't have the bread to eat. You don't tell us what your ministers' medical records are, how many alcoholics you have in the government. Here's one, sit right here, right now. There's no other thing that's...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8458	Mr. Nikolic, please pay attention to your words.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8459	It's true, Mr. President. You trusted the education with the hands of an alcoholic. The Prime Minister has decided that only rich children can study. Four, five thousand marks for college enrollment. That's nice for you. You do that. You've got those ticks of yours, they've got you all in a row. And why would a peasant child want a child without a parent, and why would he want a child of a wartime military invalid, and why would a refugee child? How are these kids going to get to study, how much will their studies cost? You don't think about it. You're thinking how many cigarettes Serbia is going to smoke. You're thinking about where there's going to be a new cigarette factory in Serbia, where rich friends of the Prime Minister are going to take him on a private plane around the world. Is that true or not true? The Prime Minister says - sometimes because of urgency, I hire some people who have small planes and we pay for it. And the fact that he has a small plane says -- it's not true, they never pay, we have an understanding of the difficulties the government is in. Where we live, my dear gentlemen. The first item of the agenda is the resolution of Vuk Obradovic, not of Kosovo and Metohija, not of misery, rather than of the transfer of the car factory to Kragujevac, rather than of the appointment of the president of district courts, who joined the Demochrist party the day before. You don't see what's going on, you, my dear gentlemen MPs, and yet you're gone, I must congratulate you, you're not enough in the O.R. Now, for the first time, I congratulate you for not being here. You see what's going on here. This is all waiting for you. Look, the justice minister comes out and says -- who has the mandates of a political party -- DOS presidency. There is no more political party in the DOS, but has the DOS presidency, which pushes 178 sheep, like shepherds or perhaps go ahead of them. Where is your autonomy, my dear gentlemen politicians and my dear gentlemen MPs? These are questions raised in Serbia from day to day. You're telling us here about this, the two sentences that the Prime Minister wrote replacing the one investigating crime. Now you're gonna keep asking us to fit those two sentences. And what's in it? The government won't deal with scandals and affairs. They want the Parliament. If the government doesn't want scandals from the Prime Minister, the Parliament will. If the government won't ask the agriculture minister what he promised the peasants a double ransom price while he was in the opposition, the assembly wants to ask. If the government won't ask Minister Djelic how many drugs he takes during the day, he wants the Assembly to ask him. If the government won't ask Lecic if he's a junkie or not, he wants the Parliament to ask him. It hurts the truth. [[jamour]] It started - OK. It's just, it's not worth it here. This is the National Assembly, this is not a government session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8460	But it's not even a circus, Mr. Nikolic, so please bring the discussion to an end. You're a thief and a liar. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8461	I'm not "you" to you. You're one of those cigar smugglers I don't even respect in my life. I'm a Serb host to you, a folk MP. (Zoran Djindjic from the site: explain to the people where you got a 150-square apartment. ) Explain to you where you got your house in the Banovci. I got an apartment from the government, and you made a house out of your own money. Did you say "me shame"? (Zoran Djindjic, from the place: No. Something seems to me. (Zoran Djindjic, from the place: there is no shame for you. There's shame for you, you Serbian traitor. Where did you spend the war?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8462	Please stop your replicas. Please finish the discussion. And you, with a throw-off-the-spot.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8463	That's how it works, my dear gentlemen, MPs. I've had a conflict with more dangerous than Zoran Djindjic. At the time, the people loved Slobodan Milosevic much more than they now love Zoran Djindjic. So I'm used to it all. My family's used to it all. I didn't blind the 178 square-square apartment. Here you go, Mr. Prime Minister, whenever you want. My car's not blinded, I'm driving it myself. I wouldn't live with 50 bodyguards lying on my back, even if I wasn't the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8464	The People's Messenger Gordana Pop-Lazic has the word, and then Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8465	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how much the government and the Prime Minister respect this presidential house, shows the government's behaviour as MP Tomislav Nikolic spoke. As the parliament's presidency is today acting in this session towards lawmakers who speak on the agenda, it shows that security was brought out on the hands of SRS MP Steve Dragisic. We're used to it. There's been better and worse times. We expect even worse moments than this authority, because everything is seen and everything is already clear to the people. Those of us who are a little more directed than ordinary citizens can no longer be surprised. To keep from being warned, I'm going back to the agenda. Elemental, human, but also political morality obliges us, MPs, however, to oppose the promoters of Vuk Obradovic, who is at the post of Deputy Prime Minister. Although many consider politicians and politics morale or at least high morals not a certain quality, here we Serbian radicals today will be taking the word and discussing the shift of Vuk Obradovic, showing that this is not the case and that we stick to basic moral principles. Even when it comes to our political opponents, we advocate, of course, the truth, justice and honesty, and against crime, settled affairs and lies. The fact that Vuk Obradovic is our political opponent, I guess it's clear to everyone. The public knows that we have also prepared an initiative for the resolution of Deputy Prime Minister Vuk Obradovic. Of course, for political reasons. However, when the hajka on Vuk Obradovic came those who are much worse than him, it is our obligation to expose this affair to the end and prove why it is and what is behind it. Why is the government, that is, why Zoran Djindjic and a few around him are seeking the shift of Vice President Vuk Obradovic. That is one reason, I suppose, why a shift is required, to protect Zoran Djindjic and his friends from what Vuk Obradovic has been working for, working in the commission he was in charge of, from. The second reason, I suppose, is the result of American experience, because this government looks a lot like the U.S. administration. I think of the experience with Monica Levinski, and in principle let the people have a little fun and let his little thoughts turn to the other side, to gossip from the government, who is whom, how, why, and as one of the damaged ladies said, which is, of course, beneath each level and government, like a tall institution, but also this tall home. It's better to deal with someone's intimate life with candles, of course I mean the citizens, because there's no electricity in the evening or there wasn't at least a time when it was particularly relevant, but to think about how they're going to survive, how they're going to enroll their children in colleges. The Minister of Higher Education, who, I must say, fell into an alcoholic coma at one of the government's sessions, is such a man headed by the Ministry of Education. So, while the people are having fun with this affair about Vuk Obradovic, citizens have to think about how to enroll their children in colleges, unless they happen to be in the best shape that day, so they don't show the best results and stay below the line. How do we explain to our children that we're poor, that we can't separate two, three, four, five thousand marks to provide them with schooling. How do we explain to our parents that we can't buy them all the drugs, so we bid, which are very necessary, and without which we can. It's better, of course, to guess if, as they call it awkwardly, sexual abuse really happened or not, whether supposedly damaged ladies were crying honestly in front of TV cameras or if it was just a good act, if there's any evidence of all this recorded on the audio tape and who was filming it, what Vuk Obradovic is doing and what he's saying in his cabinet. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the same ones who listen to you when you pick up your phone phones, and relationships aren't the cleanest. The same ones who said you could look into your police file, so now you can't. The same ones who said, no one will listen to you anymore. And who are these people? Zoran Djindjic, Vladan Batic, Dusan Mihajlovic and a whole click around them. Serbia has become a state of fear, terror and crime. Those who move among ordinary citizens can sense that fear in people. For each of them, we can no doubt say that people who are not up to the functions they perform are themselves prone to criminal affairs and abuse of official position. You ask everyone here, why is the tobacco affair involving Zoran Djindjic less compromising than this unproven affair of Vuk Obradovic? Why the affair on various abuses of official position, the state functions of Dusan Mihajlovic to make his private company "Lutra" rich...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8466	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please stick to the topic (Ambasseur Pop-Lazic continues to talk) It's not a topic, don't. I give you my first warning, please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8467	Thank you, President, for your warning, I'd feel really uncomfortable if you hadn't warned me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8468	You shouldn't thank each other, you'll get another if you keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8469	You'd obviously be talking about sex. I really can't afford it, given that I'm a family woman and that it's not the subject of debate...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8470	If you have anything to say, say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8471	Mr. President, that's what people do in intimate circumstances, in their bedrooms, they don't talk about it. The opinion of us Serbian radicals is that this government has lost the full trust of the people, that it has practically never acquired it, that expectations, due to falsely made promises that were great, have been betrayed. That is why the people's will has changed dramatically compared to the December elections. It's time for some new, extraordinary elections, which we assume will be very soon, to check the will of the people. I am sure that the citizens of Serbia will no longer succumb to your false promises and that they are looking forward to removing you from the political scene and not allowing the further division of the state, the sale of national interests, and the continued economic downturn of our economy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia look forward to a debate on the Privatisation Law proposal. And Zoran Djindjic wants to draw public attention to the alleged affair surrounding Vuk Obradovic at this session. And the most uninvited is clear what's behind the hill. But once he does, he can't stop. It will come to light all the affairs of this government, many of which will suffer, and many of the gods will have to prove their innocence before the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8472	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8473	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, at today's session, following a decision by the ruling majority in this assembly, the first item of the agenda is the proposal by Zoran Djindjic, still the current prime minister in Serbia, to relieve Mr Vuk Obradovic from his post as prime minister of the Republic government. I must remind you of the fact, and that is what all Serbian citizens know very well, that this point on the agenda is in a situation where we have a complete national disaster, an economic situation in which Serbian citizens cannot meet the minimum of existential needs, when we have a drastic decline in production, a standard of living, an unrealistic course of trade, when Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, who tabled this proposal, and the governor of the NBJ, bicker. And that Mladjan Dinkic was right, no matter what Serbian radicals thought of him, and you know that we were all the worst, when he was breaking in with long and short pipes at NBJ, he said about him, but he was right in one, and it turned out exactly, an hour ago, that "Laki was really a little nervous," and I would say -- a little bit more, and it proved that this same Lucky couldn't stand what MPs of the National Assembly should say about the explanation he gave us. Please, for the sake of the public and all those who follow this transmission, this is where Zoran Djindjic was signed. He told us in two sentences, i.e. he suggested why he should be resolved from the post of Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Vuk Obradovic and I think that any interference by the MP is in order to turn away from the topic of discussion, pointlessly and inappropriately, regardless of who is chairing, whether it is Mr. Marsicanin or Mrs. Micic who replaces him. The charges - did Mr. Vuk Obradovic do what someone attributes to him, really should not be made public by the MPs in the Assembly, because anyone who thinks that in any way has been abused, bullied or something like that can use all the positive norms of our country's criminal law, and we have already heard from the press that such a dispute has been brought before the competent court, and then let it be established there. It's not the work of the MPs. Our job is to see what are the reasons, which are motives, for Mr. Zoran Djindjic to submit a proposal to get Vuk Obradovic out of the post of Deputy Prime Minister. There is indeed something that is true in the definition of the state of the government, which is given to us by Prime Minister Djindjic, that this state of government is totally unsustainable. That condition proved unsustainable a few days after your 5-October coup. I need to remind you of all the disputes, all the thorns, all the arguments, everything that followed when you took over from this "democratic revolution," as you like to say, took over power in our country. Your reasonings and your conflicts were passed through the negative, in the beginning, legislative projects that you voted in this assembly, in the Assembly of the Greater Citizens and the Greater Republic, and where you are in power with this unstable coalition partner of yours. Mr. Djindjic, we hear now that he wants to throw himself, as a great boss, into what's called the tobacco mafia and trade in cigarettes, oil, and he cannot finish a successful trade with those in another federal unit. However, what we are familiar with, before only these two sentences came to us, were fabricated, synchronised lies, which were published in all the media, whether electronically, whether in print, but which are absolutely under the command and under the control stick and the prime minister himself and so on. DOS. What is visible and what all citizens have noticed is what are the motives and what is behind such a haranga, such a hack, by all means by means of media means to Mr. Vuk Obradovic. This is primarily due to the fact that he was headed by the government's commission to investigate crime, corruption, the way individuals and businesses are enriched and that he directly entered the interest sphere of the financial-political mafia in our country, which is very close to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ruling oligarchy. All these people and all these individuals, as we could see from all these inscriptions, and this was transmitted by foreign presses, are closely linked to the leaders of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Your alleged unity, which today, and if it were not regrettable, would indeed be funny, Prime Minister Djindjic called, immediately after October 5th as a bubble of soap. The moment that you yourself, sitting in ministerial chairs and your supporters today, began to grab on to ministerial functions, for all privileges, and then as a consequence of this disunity, this hidden disunity and everything that was happening on your politburo, the central committee, which you call the DOS presidency, was initiated by this "aferra", which is called Vuk Obradovic and the avalanche of the charges is addressed to his account. The motives and backgrounds are really clear, as far as Vuk Obradovic is concerned. You know, that's what everyone who likes to know and follow what's going on in the countries where the government has cut it like this, for a short time, into crime, as it has been since the DOS came to Serbia and the SRJ to power, they know that Vuk Obradovic must be removed as a wish witness. All mobsters and mob gangs and clans are removing all unwanted witnesses because they can clearly reason to talk about facts, events, people, and in this case about this financial mafia and everything that Vuk Obradovic is from the position of the Commission president, you have called him to this place, as well as what you chose as vice president of the Republic government, eventually found, and in which he was prevented from speaking in public. There are open suspicions that because of the overall behaviour, because of the nature of the personality, because of all the secular actions, directly and indirectly, through its mediators, through people from its environment, all of this is conducting and all of this against Vuk Obradovic was initiated by Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic himself. Mr Djindjic should know that moral character and work should be spoken exclusively by those people who consider and hold it as the greatest human traits. You should, after a session that took place last week, submit, for moral reasons, your resignation, because you MPs, in a situation where the Cypriot bandits together with Hekerup, harass Kosovo and Metohija, for the proposed resolution, or conclusions, which the Assembly would not accept, gave after two days of debate, some kind of declaration. The assembly, your congregation majority did not want, Mr. Djindjic, to accept the conclusions that you delivered to us...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8474	Mrs. Jovanovic, it's really very difficult to follow you, but you're not in the topic at all. You're not in the dark at all. Please...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8475	Mr. Martian, and as far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8476	... And it just seemed to me that when you didn't...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8477	At the headquarters of the event involving Vuk Obradovic, the crime that is ruling in the government of the Republic of Serbia, the financial mafia, which has spread so widely in this country that normal people, who trusted the majority of the DOS coalition in the September and December of last year, seem to change their mood. It's obviously time for the voter's will to be repeated in the snap elections. And as far as I'm right, Mr. Martian, although you are not present, but your president, these sessions, the politburo, and how right I am when I say that he is from this particular session of politburo, which is called DOS Presidency, sent to Mr. Vuk Obradovic's "silent gaittan" enough of the facts published by the press, which is under your direct control. A Belgrade-based Sunday paper, "Sun Weekly Telegraph", in which, following failed DOS and SNP talks, says the interior minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dusan Mihajlovic, the one who fabricates alleged war crimes, which Serbs committed, to what promises were made and that the relationship within the coalition must be resolved, said -- what promises, which promise, then the president of the state, Kostunica, promised to the planet's chief we will pass the law and send Milosevic to The Hague. I must, gentlemen of the DOS, tell you, although you are already on the verge of going into oblivion, in the ugly history of the Serb people, ahead of the coming, I am confident, very fast, extraordinary elections, that even the chief of the planet, whom Dusan Mihajlovic meant when he said this, may sometimes be wrong. It could be wrong for William Montgomery and his Belgrade clerk, wrong to advise you, all the time they've been giving you the wrong advice. That's why you'll suffer the will of the voters in the upcoming election. That's what I'm sure of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8478	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Vatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8479	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I joined the people who founded Social Democracy four years ago, in my darkest dreams, I couldn't even imagine that one day I would be able to think of a man, who was her president, as I am now thinking. That's when I thought he was the one for whom the social democratic ideas are sacred, that he's the one who lives and works as a true and true socialist, that he's the one for whom the truth is and the word of untapped size is given. But everything Mr. Obradovic has done in the past month has made us wonder - well, what kind of man was at the head of a party, whose member I am? Mr. Obradovic, your obscenity towards our colleagues from the party, according to your co-workers in Vladi, as well as some journalists, your return - the appeal of the General Committee, contrary to the party's statutes, as well as your violation of our act, our party, has made me take sides of people who make up two-thirds of the legal presidency of Social Democracy. If I remember correctly, our pre-election slogan was a man of his word. I ask myself, and to all of you here, is Vuk Obradovic really a man of his word? A man who, at the session of that shameful main committee, accuses all those who try to show him his inappropriate behaviour, a man who also accused Mr. Zoran Djindjic, Mr. Dusan Mihajlovic, as well as Mr. Vladan Batic, and then disproves those words in just a few days. What kind of man offers his resignation, and then, after just ten minutes, changes his mind? In my opinion, such a man is anything but a man of his word. Then I wonder, is such a man really needed by this Serbian government? Does a man who breaks the laws change his mind in just a few minutes should be the vice president of this government? No, respected citizens of the country of Serbia, and no, Mr. Prime Minister. Such a man should be forbidden to perform any public function and such a man should be accountable for all that he has done contrary to the law. The political scene brought down a dictator on October 5th, to whom the masses were Scanning and sending telegrams of unreserved support. I thought that after that date, there would never be a dictator on the political scene of Serbia again, when it happened exactly the same in a party, whose member I am. Well, isn't that what we fought against, Mr. Beard? Have we not fought the untouchable and the gods who walk the earth? Didn't we fight that there were no more mottos - one man - party, one man - nation, one man - state? It seems that this fight is still going on, and this session shows that we are going a good way, because we can also discuss the confidence of a vice-president of the government. That's why I'm sure this government will manage to place Serbia on its right and healthy feet, but without you, Mr. Vuke Obradovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8480	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8481	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, respected members of the government, on the Parliament's agenda is an extremely important issue -- a request for a resolution of the vice-president of the Republic of Serbia. The request did not take place, given the overall situation in our country and the government's responsibility, as could be expected, by some of the opposition parties, but rather by the government itself, i.e. Prime Minister. Why? The conflict within one of the parties, a member of the ruling DOS, has conditioned that the Prime Minister requests the resolution of the Deputy Prime Minister, who is also the president of the party, where there is a conflict, at least until the ministry makes another decision. The government did not stand behind the truth of its vice president in this conflict, in order to be expected, but rather to seek his resolution. Why am I saying she didn't stand behind her vice president? Because the conflict within the party has not gone beyond the charges, so far without evidence. The government did not apply the principles for which it is always publicly advocated, which is transparency, the truthfulness in work and established, i.e., it waited for the accuracy of the declaration to be established. The request for resolution did not stem from the Deputy Prime Minister's established guilt, which would be a logical basis for the government's reaction. No, on the contrary, you don't know what's in that conflict at all, and you don't know what's wrong. How does the government react? Instead of establishing the accuracy of the charges made, the government is resorting once, in my opinion, to an incorrect move -- since this conflict, as the government itself says, has taken on the dimensions of the affair, and therefore can adversely affect the government's work, the government has defined a solution that is easier for it. In fact, she showed her right face, showed that she understands and applies the principle of transparency, rights, justice, respect for the law, the process of determining guilt, and that also speaks of relations within the coalition. The government in this case is not interested in the truth at all, i.e. Who's in that conflict is right and who isn't. By leading above all, and only counting on his image, and not on determining the facts and applying the law, the government decided on this step. It's this expert government of truth, as we were pictured in its constitution. It's an important image, an impression that is created and remains among citizens, not truth, not facts. If so, and it is, then it is explained why the government is doing what it does, it acts as an absolute master of Serbia, who judges and judges who are right and who is wrong, so it gives statements and interpretations for issues and areas for which it is not even competent. The government, not the judiciary, has found the alleged guilt of the party's president, Slobodan Milosevic. The government knows everything that is going on in the investigation against Radet Markovic, the government knows all the answers to the affairs that are shaking Serbia these days, but, behold, it does not know, nor is it interested in anything that is related to its deputy prime minister. So, when it comes to others, the government knows everything and the supporter is the truth. When it comes to a member of the government, and that's the Deputy Prime Minister, then that truth doesn't matter. The only thing that matters is that bad image for the government and how to neutralize it. To paraphrase one video, the image is everything, the thirst is nothing, and for our government, the image is everything, and the truth is nothing. In my opinion, this behaviour of the Government, two-facedly, does not give us socialists the opportunity to take a second position in that case, not to support this initiative until the truth of this case is established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8482	According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8483	Mr. President, I've been looking for a replica, you've not allowed me, I think you've violated Article 2 96's position. Rules of Procedure on the work that he says - if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group... Wait a minute, I'm speaking on behalf of the party that's the subject of the debate here, since that's explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8484	I didn't give you my word, don't abuse it, Mr. Obradovic can get a word whenever he answers, there's no problem, it's explained to you. The People's MP Stevan Kesejic has the word, followed by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are here today to the truth that Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic has chosen the wrong authority. We Serbian radicals convinced him not to do it, that he would not have a good government, that he would have horns in his bags, and he did not believe us. In fact, he knew he'd have it, but you know how, the prime minister thought he'd better have such ministers as he is, so he'd get along better. So, and today's fact, we're talking about affairs, we're talking about a man, about Vuk Obradovic, who probably tried to get out of that bag, and now that this doesn't match the mandate of Zoran Djindjic, then he ordered that a political party, such as Mr. Vuk Obradovic's party, take a look at him and there was a discrepancies. And Vladan Batic failed to convince most of the party's members, Vuk Obradovic, and polarisation occurred. Parliament's MPs are also due today to discuss it, to discuss whose party it is. Whether it's Vuk Obradovic's party, Zoran Djindjic or Vladan Batic. Dusan Mihajlovic should only bring in those who will not listen to what Zoran Djindjic is asking for, or, if some, don't give up, can end up in a freezer, invented, about which Mihajlovic has been writing a lot lately and speaking and we all listen carefully to him, wishing that we didn't believe him. However, the public is so bitter about everything that is happening in the government, that they have come to terms with Zoran Djindjic and these closest government associates around him and invented the sexual affair, Vuk Obradovic. I would say this, I mean a folk saying that is often applied, and it can also be applied here: "It's yelling at a wolf, and foxes taste meat." So, in this case, Vuk Obradovic should be the victim, the scapegoat for all those affairs that make up the government of Zoran Djindjic. Today we heard that in three sentences, the prime minister tried to explain everything he said here in his exposé, that it would be the government of experts, that it would be the government of experts, honest and capable ministers. For the first time today, he started to pour ashes. It is sprayed with ash, saying that the Toboge did not know that Vuk Obradovic was prone to sexual abuse. Secondly, we couldn't even interpret it, from that sentence he gave to the MPs, but that he apologized and that he couldn't assume that Vuk Obradovic was prone to it. If we take all these newspapers, the magazines that wrote about this affair, it can be concluded from these newspapers, from some members of the Vuk Obradovic party, that he did so years ago. So, if Zoran Djindjic knew that, then he had to take care when he appointed Vuk Obradovic as minister, which we believe to have had a very responsible place in the government of the Republic of Serbia, a place to curb corruption and crime, to find all those perpetrators, and that the DOS wing is being realized, that corruption and crime will take place on the surface, that all the culprits will be punished in accordance with the law. However, given the fact that we do not have any material evidence today, apart from newspaper articles and statements of crying, to God's mistress or abusive members of that party, therefore, since we do not have any valid evidence, we have the only evidence that Zoran Djindjic wants to replace the minister and then immediately raises the question why. The question can only be answered in itself because, on several occasions, in magazines, on television, Vuk Obradovic very condescendingly announced that he would expose some of the crimes that are taking place in the government of the Republic of Serbia. I fear that Vuko Obradovic was threatened, that he was not allowed today to present the relevant evidence he has, and that we MPs are only discussing some theoretical stories of art, statements, newspaper articles and false promises of the president, or Prime Minister, who here in his exposé presented to us all of the government's intentions and experts he has appointed and for which he puts his hand in the fire. So if we are discussing Vuk Obradovic today, we must immediately compare the Wolf, therefore, not the Wolf, but his god-awful act with the actions of the other ministers. I have heard the prime minister's statement that he is not satisfied with the work of individual ministers, is not satisfied with the inaction exactly, precisely with the unsatisfactory work in carrying out his duties in the ministries. If so, then it was probably more meaningful and better if Prime Minister Djindjic had resigned here today, and the best chance would have been if he had reconstructed the government he promises, but not according to the national structure, but according to the structure where certain ministers, uncompromised, would have been appointed to the government, not DOS ministers, but ministers indeed, as Zoran Djindjic told us here to the MPs. All in all, there remains only one doubt that this sexual affair is put before the MPs and the citizens of Serbia today in order to throw dust into the eyes of citizens, to cover up and prevent citizens and MPs from pointing to their failures, to tell them what they should do and to ask them to resign as soon as possible, or to carry out reconstruction, as well as incrimination of the actions, of this Government of the Republic of Serbia. Ministers, such as Vladan Batic, Dusan Mihajlovic, Dragan Veslinov, Gašo Knezevic, in any case do not deserve to be ministers, because their affairs are more devastating for the Serbian people than this, in my opinion, invented affair of Vuk Obradovic. If it was true that there was something about this affair of Vuk Obradovic, it could only speed up the ethnicity of the Serbian people, and could not bring the people to a naive economic existence and life. In my neighborhood, he also says, when it comes to unserious things like this, because sexual problems need to be solved in the dark, in the closed, in one patriarchal family, that's how it is done, but it's said to those who don't do so -- they don't wave a bitch's tail, so there's no wedding. So until the bitch hits the tail, there's no weddings. And so, I consider that on this case that we had before us today, about Vuk Obradovic, that this is only one attempt for Zoran Djindjic, as I said, to spill his ashes, to justify the inability of the government so far, to do so so so far, and to execute what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done for the eight months it has been in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8486	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8487	This is where you heard the MPs talking about the five-octobar revolution. Since the five-octobar revolution, and before that, there have been many more of these love affairs that have not been carried out here, well, since they were mostly among the top officials of the Democratic Party, so even at the time of the Coalition "Together", where the coalition was in power in certain cities, we were able to record these love affairs even then.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8488	Mr. Keseiæ, please conclude. You don't have to read everything you wrote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8489	I don't read anything, Mr. Martian, except the newspaper you write. So I read out of them what I'm talking about. What I'm saying isn't even in your paper, because you've been hiding it. It was a senior official of the Democratic Party who wanted to assign an apartment to his lover, and then two from the city government, Mirko Drazic and the government of Milosevic, who lost their head, and this man is called Petar Relic... (President: Mr. Kesajic)... One of the Democratic Party's biggest confidants and the right hand of Zoran Djindjic in Somboro.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8490	The People's MP Goran Cvetanovic has the word, and after him, the MP Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8491	The DOS presidency made a decision, allegedly based on their political impression, that Mr. Vuk Obradovic would leave the government for a sexual scandal. I fear this is the most common political prank for Mr Obradovic to be removed from the Commission's position to investigate the most serious financial abuses in the past 12 years, as he is also the initiator of the adoption of the law on extra profit. Is this all part of an organized heist? Prime Minister Djindjic says it has ruled that Obradovic has become controversial in the public, and when someone is controversial in the public it is also controversial to work in the government. What then of the controversial figures that are members of the government, such as Batic, Covic, Mihajlovic, and also Prime Minister Djindjic himself? Mr. Obradovic has been charged with sexual harassment and mistreatment of his co-workers in the government. Under the Republic Criminal Law, sexual harassment as a special crime does not exist. Sexual harassment is hard to prove. How do you prove something that happened between two closed doors if there are no signs of violence? You'll agree that something like that is almost impossible to prove. According to current regulations, the law does not protect a preventive woman, but punishes the perpetrator only when the act is proven. I'd like to try to analyze the behavior of individuals who are actors in this sexual scandal. I'm sure it's not correct to use sex for manipulative purposes. Mrs Ljiljana Nestorovic, although she tried to convince the audience that she had suffered from trauma, must be aware that there is a possibility that she tried her own facial expression to challenge the pity of Serbian citizens first of all, and also great anger towards Mr Obradovic. I understand Mr. Slobodan Orlic's actions because he is running as president of Social Democracy. I also understand the position of MP Jelena Milenkovic and her desire that her boyfriend Slobodan Orlic have primate in the party and that she is fighting for her boyfriend's status. MP Meko Omerovic has been engaged from a small age in the youth and senior structures of the former communist system. He worked in the Alliance of Socialist Youth in Belgrade, and then as a good communist improved as a member of the Central Committee of the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia, where he worked in the personnel policy sector. His second party engagement is membership in Serbia's Alliance of Reform Forces, Mr Ante Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8492	Mr. Cvetanovicu, we don't read the biography of members of Social Democracy here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8493	I absolutely have to expose whether people who participated in all this and who support both sides have or have no motives. As usual, I'll be brief, concise, clear and my exposure never goes more than five minutes. Be patient, I only have a few sentences to say. He was a member of the General Committee of the Party. Since his party has fallen apart, just like it has been since '97. The year becomes a member of Social Democracy. Since 1993, he's been going into private business, so I'm afraid that since he had no knowledge, positive energy and ability to develop a private business, now he doesn't use his office as chairman of the Parking Service Management Board to solve his housing problem, which publicly through the newspapers shows that he has no housing issue and that he's a tenant. It's clear to me that a large number of officials are terrified of compromising details from their biographies. It is clear to me that around the post of Deputy Prime Minister, higher interests appear, more forces are acting, and that Prime Minister Djindjic wants to keep most of the power lever to himself. Dusan Mihajalović dramatically revealed the theft of documents on 24 April 2001. The DOS leader's files, which in turn crossed into the hands of the mafia and former Serbian SDB chiefs, and that the new government is ahead of blackmail. Why did Mr. Dusan Mihajlovic not answer what happened to the bugs, listeners at the tables of Ljiljana Nestorović and Slobodan Orlic, through whom they could listen to Mr. Obradovic's confidential talks about the most serious financial abuses, and they may even be doing so from far away from the office of Deputy Prime Minister Vuk Obradovic's office. Probably time will answer all these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8494	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8495	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am not surprised at the behaviour of a member of the Serbian Radical Party. On the contrary, I would be very surprised, surprised, not to say concerned, that Serbian Radical Party MPs in parliament have a different relationship on the subject. On the contrary, you've only remained consistent with your political concept that you've stood up for all these years. You believe rape increases ethnicity in Serbia. It's about people like that, and if you had a little morale, and you didn't, you wouldn't say a single word today, let alone use your 10 minutes as long as the Rules of Procedure allows you. Why? Because you've been spreading hate speech from this pay phone for the past 10 years, calling for racial, religious and national intolerance. Thanks to you and your destructive policy, whose very active actors you have been, thousands of young people have not even expected to wake up in free Serbia, gentlemen radicals. The more the Serbian people died, the more the squares of your apartments increased. Come out for a pay phone, and tell me which square you went into politics with, and what apartments and houses you're in. You've installed every dead Serb within a square foot of your apartment. Shame on you. If I were Mr. Obradovic, I'd be worried about what my lawyers are defending me, the 23 lawyers who are depicted in the image and the work of the SRS MPs. These are the people who defended Milosevic in this particular place, defending Milanovic. Where is Milosevic, where is Milanovic? If I were Vuk Obradovic, I'd be worried about where I'm gonna meet tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8496	The word has a folk MP Meho Omerovic, then Mr Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8497	I am pleased that Mr Cvetanovic has given me the right to a replica of me, mentioning my name and listing some of my functions. The President of the Management Board of Parking Services is particularly interesting. It seems to be the most itchy thing to do to Mr. Radicals. There's a device called a spider that carries all the cars and jeeps parked in unauthorized places. Also, there is a device in the people, in the citizens of Serbia, that carries radicals from Serbia's political scene, and that device is called - the voices of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I am particularly pleased that among the 15 members of the presidency, so among the two-thirds of the presidency that demanded the removal and resignation of Vuk Obradovic, there is no former representative of the SPS or the SRS, which would not be said of followers and supporters who defend Vuk Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8498	Mr. Seselj, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8499	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I didn't want to talk about sex at all at this session. After the presentation of Jelena Milenkovic, I must. She has brought down a series of insults to the account of the Serbian Radical Party. I listened very carefully to her speech this morning. I just asked her, she can confirm whether she was sexually harassed by Vuk Obradovic. She said she didn't. So she wasn't upset. Is it true, miss? Here, Meso confirms it's not. So she listened eventually to stories of other women being harassed. And when we looked at her crying on TV, we all thought at a moment -- probably a poor kid, and so did she. Oh, it's not. This morning here, Jelena Milenkovic describes details of how Vuk Obradovic sexually harassed her colleagues from Social Democracy. He says, when he was driving a woman on the road, so, driving, she travels with him to the passenger seat, drives, holds the wheel of his hands, presses the gas, and one hand forces her to put her head between his groins. That's what you were talking about this morning. Everyone heard that. How is that possible without an accident on the way? That's impossible. When you're lying, think carefully about making your lie convincing. This is where Jelena Milenkovic mentions what we were defending Milosevic. We only defended Milosevic once - when you illegally arrested him and had no evidence against him. And Dragoljub Milanovic, you arrested him instead of Javier Solana. You have now declared a secret trial for Radet Markovic, who did not keep any secrets from the NATO Pact. Now you fear the trial of Radet Markovic, so that he will not speak of you at the trial. That's what you do. That's the essence of your authority. Here Jelena Milenkovic is obviously mauled because she wants her young man Slobodan Orlic to become president of Social Democracy. Now that truth here is obvious to everyone. Oh, you're not sexually harassed and you know from the stories that Vuk Obradovic does. Between you and Ljiljana Nestorović, if I were him, I would concentrate on you, not Ljiljana Nestorović. I do not want to insult Ljiljana Nestorović, but between you and Ljiljana Nestorović is a huge difference in age and beauty, etc. Don't go out with such naive lies. The nation doesn't trust you. (President: Time. ) You should have thought of something else, so it might be convincing. Let's talk about how Free Orlic passed 15 exams in 20 days or how many. After 11 years of study, he came to his senses at the end, so in 20 days - 15 exams. I guess that's scandalous. This should be discussed as an abuse of power, to see it, not to invent something that absolutely can't be understood as being possible in the way you invent it. (President: please finish. ) Here, let Vladan Batic try driving a car and a passenger to get his head between his groins. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8500	The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the first item of today's session is the fictional scandal in Social Democracy, in order to replace Deputy Prime Minister Vuk Obradovic. We'd better discuss a Balkan scandal today, whose central figure has just left this room, or the prime minister. The prime minister claims that he appointed the Deputy Prime Minister. I guess he suggested it, and this congregation named it. What interests the citizens that we all represent here is Mr. Vuk Obradovic's report on the work of a commission investigating criminal affairs. Instead, the government's deputy prime minister, who led the team to investigate the criminal actions of the previous government and individuals from the previous government, as well as the accumulated affairs of the DOS regime and individuals from the government and those close to them, is wanted. That group of large-scale criminals, with whom government members are connected, seems like no one can get in the way. I only answered the word for one principled reason. The same group of MPs, which now accuses Mr. Vuk Obradovic, accused me of making up all sorts of nonsense, so the assembly used the incident to exclude the president of the Serbian Radical Party from the meeting, as the most dangerous critic of the DOS regime. That was your script for last session, and now you have another one. They're just changing actors. Mr. Batic left the O.R. I don't know what character Mr. Batic is here in the O.R. We discussed his trust at the last session. He's got the trust of 87 MPs. Had there been an honorable man, a minister supported by only one-third of the parliament, he would never have set foot in this room. He didn't even get 50% of his parliamentary majority. All the Ministers to the Minister. (President: Mr. Lamb, I warn you. How can I speak to Mr Djindjic when he left? Does he watch these transmissions? Mr. Djindjic, behind your name are such criminal tails, if only one thing were true, the percentage would be enough to replace the entire government. If there is smoke in that folk, where there is smoke, Mr Djindjic, it is clear to everyone in the Balkans what methods you are using in the political liquidation of non-insanes and whether only in politics. Everyone talks, and some media reports the involvement of the Prime Minister and individual ministers in various mafia affairs. Some media, like "Serbian words" on the front page, are writing under your picture and photos -- will smoke Serbia. (shows the newspaper) I think it's better if he smokes someone else, if that's right, Mr. Djindjic. We could say you, like a verified cigarette dealer. Serbia is worth more than any individual, either the prime minister or the president of the state. Serbia will survive, everyone else is variable. The Prime Minister does not react as ministers, and all of the world's media conveys and claims that they will deliver Serbs to The Hague without law, because you will. No, you don't, gentlemen. If you smoke that, it'll be your last. Serbian mothers did not give birth to sons to NATO criminals, with your help...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8502	Mr. Janjic, I warn you twice to stick to the subject and watch what expressions you use.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8503	All citizens of Yugoslavia can only be tried by courts in Yugoslavia. We don't need any inquisitors from the West. Mr. Djindjic, if you have any honor and morals, step out for this pay phone and pull this thing out of the process. Spare us the future of these directed scandals to cover up your criminal affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8504	The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8505	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have said many times from this pay phone that I do not trust Zoran Djindjic or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Today's debate on the non-confidential vote by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia makes it clear that something is "trouble in the state of Denmark" that something has rotted in the government of Zoran Djindjic. The people of Serbia are in a major economic crisis and social misery. The people were in elections, believing in pre-election promises to the DOS coalition, giving confidence, expecting changes. The government of the Republic of Serbia as an executive body should implement a policy that will serve Serbian citizens. We need to discuss the sexual affairs of members of the government today. The media blockade in Serbia is scary, but Serbian citizens also know very well that all this has been set up by Vuka Obradovic and that his political liquidation is an imperative for Zoran Djindjic, Vladan Batic and Dusan Mihajlovic. It seems to me that Vuk Obradovic, working in the Commission for Crime Studies, touched the nests and found criminal affairs, no one else to the members of the government of the Republic of Serbia. This unremembered scandal is an impromptu fake affair, with which we Serbian parliamentarians should deal with it, and we know reliably that there are those big and real affairs, which are largely hidden from the citizens of Serbia. Who is responsible for everything that is happening in the government of the Republic of Serbia, who is proposing members of the government? Of course, Zoran Djindjic. Is there any responsibility here? The MPs debate whether Vuk Obradovic was courting, speaking gentle words or winking. It doesn't matter to me, but it is vital that whoever took Galenika from the state of Serbia, who took over the oil imports via Croatia, who protects and controls the tobacco mafia via Stanko Sutotic Canet. It is also important to me, as a national MP, that Lutra has received from the government a million marks from the Serbian Development Fund, and the owner of the company is none other than Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic. Did the Commission, led by Vuk Obradovic, discover perhaps an affair that took money from the primary show, then an affair of old foreign savings, etc. Of the potential sexual affairs of Vuk Obradovic, it is much more important to me if Minister of Education Gašo Knezevic was taking money from our children, from Serbian citizens, to pass the exam. They can pass, but only from the scripts of Gaše Knezevic, and they have a price of 300 marks. These are important affairs for Serbian citizens. The government of the Republic of Serbia must implement a policy against crime, but how to do so, when it contains all forms of crime, when members of the government have become encumbered in criminal affairs. Unserious and irresponsible is all this from the government of the Republic of Serbia. There are much more important, problems, more vital life-threatening people who are terribly burdened by the citizens of Serbia. We should all want Serbia to take the path out of the economic crisis and social misery. To look, as representatives of the people in this highest legislative body, to solve problems that deeply rock the citizens of Serbia. As an SRS MP, I had the opportunity to answer citizens' questions on the stands organised by Serbian Radicals and on the proposal to vote for non-confidentials, Vuk Obradovic. Believe that Serbia's citizens know a lot of things, they know and they feel for the people's soul what's true. All those who hide the truth from the people must be prepared to be flooded by the flood of popular revolt of dissatisfaction. The political climate in Serbia has changed. The people's indignation is great. Life is getting more intolerable, and representatives of the DOS government are getting colder in the people. Serbia has had a lot of difficult times in its history, and now it's very difficult. There is no other way, to the people's elections, not to allow it to be deceived and deceived, that Serbian citizens are not represented by those who are humiliated to be true representatives of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8506	We'll continue at 3:30. Please, let's be on time together. [[After a break.]] Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We continue the debate on the proposal to resolve the vice-president of the Republic Government, Dr Vuk Obradovic. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8508	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the circus in the government has begun. We Serbian did it and we expected it. We knew that today's government team was a group of 18 insinuators, who had nothing in common, except that history returned to October 5th. It's a strange story. The president of the assembly had to prepare this agenda in the right way. This means that all MPs, proposed by the Social Democracy and excluded from the party, were to be subject to the work of the Administrative Committee. It's not done. Why? The president will probably give his word and answer about it. Probably this item of the agenda would be faster realized than it will now be, but let this assembly now discuss this sexual affair. The government must shed light on the tobacco affair, the smuggling of cigarettes, the Galenika affair, the colder affair, the People's Bank affair, and many of them are blocking the affair from this one. Mr. Djindjic has made this affair a three-point concept. I don't think these three points are worthy of today's assembly session and that all three have been declassified, and they have been declassified for reasons why previous affairs had to be resolved. It is not political to speak in Serbia today, I personally gave the mandate to Vuk Obradovic. What does that mean? I'll take that mandate away from him, and that's what's happening today. Vuk Obradovic, as deputy prime minister of the government, was given the mandate to solve a number of issues in the Commission on Crime, and he probably did so and the result of this work was his shift. The analysis was given positive opinions and some analysts from abroad and considered that only such a method of work would the commission be able to complete the idea it advocated. The resistance came forward and the resistance today suggests that Vuku Obradovic show no confidence as vice-president of the Republic government. That resistance is Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. The question arises as to why the famous Social Democracy in Serbia is now in the phase of transforming itself into some Djindjic association. They went over to Germany, and they shouldn't have gone because German social democracy has an exceptional connection with Mr. Djindjic. Why did he go to Congress without Vuk Obradovic? That's why social democracy is transformed into another party today. There was a comment that it was also one of Seselj's wings of Social Democracy. Maybe that's where the answer lies, to which someone will eventually give the right answer. This government has made many promises in pre-election. For example, they promised the people -- you're gonna drive new cars, and now these cars are nothing. You brought the French auditors to the people, and we're not even close to the French economy. Mr. Aleksandar Radovic, director of the Republic Revenue Administration, is the president of the commission for investigating criminal and corruption affairs. His formula he wanted to apply in Serbia was a formula France applied immediately after the war to its war-rich people. It's going to go very hard on us. The commission run by Vuk Obradovic typed 400 pages of work material. The material was intended to be directed to the public. However, the government closed it to the public and stamped it, strictly confidentially, 143 cases were hidden with Slobodan Lalovic, the secretary of the commission. Why did the government keep it all quiet? According to Vuk Obradovic, Slobodan Orlic offered money to Vuk Obradovic for the matter to lie down. Branko Gligoric offered Vuka Obradovic - choose a country where you can be ambassador. These are just questions to be answered, and then to be discussed before the MPs. As MPs today, we are in an awkward situation of how to respond when there is no government to these questions, and we are asked to support today a proposal from a promoter that is not consistent with work in the government so far. The DOS system from the beginning was: we are all for a unique thing, we are all for a system that will create prosperity. The main thesis of DOS is that the previous regime is at every place and at all times guilty of the state in the country. They're going pompous. The information funds have soaked to the DOS government. They seem to be high-quality, but just for a moment, and that moment is still visible today in the form of this affair. The seams that gave way to the government are visible. South Serbia, Bujanovac, Presevo marked the DOS diversity. One was for resolution, the longer the better, the more radical they were for undertaking. The next seam in that conglomerate was the creation of some special autonomy from eight Hungarian municipalities alive. In this number of duchy bees, other drones who see that they can still eat honey without working. One of the drones from that duchess DOS calls the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic of rams a rotten cabin, and the people the sheep of eight million waiting for the outcome. They're all indicators of DOS disunity. There's that at every turn. Montenegro showed cracks in the conglomerate and there were various variations. Mr. Djindjic is recognised by Mr. Milo, and Kostunica is past and so on. Then the DOS cracks move on and it is expected that under the first fall the cold will spread like a snowball. Djindjic attends the Social Democracy Congress in Germany, and Mr. Vuk Obradovic, whose party is related to it, which has nothing to say, is another crack in the DOS conglomerate. Imagine just reports in Germany...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8509	Mr. Služarevitch, please hold at least a little bit of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8510	I'm holding on. Imagine just a report in Germany that came in terms of pictures of Djindjic, by fax. In a picture of three security figures in Europe and the Balkans -- Germans, French and Serbs, and that is a crack, already a hole in the DOS conglomerate. Thank you for 100 days of DOS work, and some say they didn't do anything, imagine, gentlemen, they're just expected at the end of the year, and that's the crack of your conglomerate. We know Serbian radicals for everything that's going on right now. In the future, it is similarly prepared for any individual who would not listen to the Chancellor and the brother. Vuk Obradovic is an organized affair in a very nice and nice way. The wolf has fallen for our Serbian sexual affair. Imagine you gentlemen when someone has sexual desires and these desires turn into scandal. Four people were attacked. I fight as a Democrats and a Serb that such things don't happen, not in cabinets, not only in them, but where anyone who is weaker and who can't defend himself is abused. They've organized everything for us now, and they're already suggesting that we correct it with new legal projects. DOS showed a crack in that field, too. The DOS believes it is unique, however it is not. DOS Deputy Prime Minister folded his sleeves, set off to deal with crime, but not by choosing nor by defending DOS colleagues in the area. Now, gentlemen, there's been an explosion, and that explosion needs to be transferred to some bunker so the detonation doesn't shake the neighbors from DOS. When a style is now formed that must be the law, when they complete their obligations from the given obligations, you will all come in line. Mihajlovic pulled a ticket to arrest Milosevic and others, and when it is finished, he will probably get another job. Batic, as a man of justice, needs to condemn all of this and he leaves the political scene at the time. In the meantime, the affairs will appear, which is the logic of every government that is not itself but: Germany, France, the English -- as they are impulsed there, so will the government here base. I thought, gentlemen of the DOS, that your government would behave contrary to the previous regime, but you're no better treated than the previous government. You too baptize various ships and you act the same way Mira Markovic did. We are the political opponent of Vuk Obradovic and we would have a lot to say. But in this case, it is obvious that it is a hajka on Vuk Obradovic, because Vuk Obradovic took a turn for Zoran Djindjic, Dusan Mihajlovic and Vladan Batic, in some of their criminal affairs, and we know about one of these affairs. Zoran Djindjic is trying to take control of the Bank. It's a bank that is now being held by people from Social Democracy, close to the people of Vuk Obradovic, which is the bank...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8511	Except for what you have to conclude, Mr. Služarevich, you still stick to the subject, the agenda. Why don't you stick to the agenda? It really doesn't make sense because of my fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8512	It's a bank that turns a large amount of money. The fight against crime cannot be conducted selectively. Mr. Djindjic would like that fight to be fought very selectively. Mr Djindjic wants only his political opponents to suffer, and his political pals to be protected, no matter what they did, and therefore he went against Vuk Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8513	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8514	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Serbian Government, esteemed journalists, the topic is too degutant to be found in front of such a tall home at all. But while he's here, we need to say a few things. Of course, if we agree to talk on the way. No throwing away, Mr. Popovic, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8515	You are not there to warn.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8516	Your disquieting is your personal matter (receives to Ambassador Popovic). Mr. Beard, I'll take the turn, as I think it's normal. First of all, from what I object to you, you have stated: "In my life I have been defiant in many things, I have never in women. "When an officer and a gentleman, he must not allow such a sentence. So that's what I blame you for. Or the paper mistranslated what you said. But it's not what I want to talk about here today. It is clear that MPs have been brought into an awkward situation, to participate in the political maneuver of a major political party, so-called. The large DOS political parties, who are thus trying to increase their own political influence by five mandates compared to the other. Even if the story is completely true, and we can't talk about it, because we don't need to know the details of these things, there's a few, as it's said by jargon, hollow spots in this story. First, the whole thing coincides with the government's efforts to fight corruption and to intensify all other negative consequences derived from it, they also get some new light in front of our public. If Mr. Vuk Obradovic, as Deputy Prime Minister and President of the Commission, was the most exhibited player (I apologize for the jargon) then it is completely illogical that at the moment when these things happen, practically one commission and its work are fully relativating. Next, several people's MPs have never talked here today about who has the right under the law to have mandates. Since political people sit in this assembly, therefore, we all understand what is being said here, it is unacceptable for a political party, even if they have accused her and proved that she is guilty of much, to challenge the right to have its parliamentary mandates in a republican assembly. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic, New Democracy, is that what you said?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8517	You want me to go out, and you want to continue and conduct the session, and you want to discuss it, or you want me to run the session?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8518	Well then, Mr. President, warn your chief of Parliament club, even warn him, Mr. President. The mandates of the Social Democracy, within the framework of the DOS, are the mandates of the Social Democracy. If the party makes a legitimate decision on who will personally represent the party in this Parliament, that right cannot be disputed by anyone. That's the right you tried to challenge that stranger today, whether she's nice to us or not. That thing is completely principled. What can come about as a consequence is a precedent that can be applied to others, but some of them take account of it primarily of a smaller political party within the DOS, because, without being an ominous, "it has begun" and the question is whether some new affair, or some new problem, that really exists, or who makes someone public, and without it exists, will deny someone else's parliamentary mandates in this House. It is amazing that a number of MPs, speaking today about this subject, are also talking about something that has absolutely nothing to do with today's meeting, and not what they thought they were imputing, especially some MPs and some people who had previously exercised power. So, they weren't on that note. It is not easy when it comes to being in a position that only after a few months, when this pay phone promised the people honesty, principle, consistency, etc. today faces this same people, a bunch of problems, which are not political in nature at all, but stemming from another kitchen, which even if you claimed no longer exists or that something that existed in the past as a rule of conduct. You will, of course, take down your Deputy Prime Minister today. That's obvious. You'll change your vice president, because we didn't vote for him. As for our vote today, it is said here - we will be restrained. It's not our fight, it's just that in that fight of yours there's gonna be a lot of weed. Because whenever elephants perform on the lawn, grass always dies first. I'm glad you recognized yourself, that phenomenon is called the identification of scattered attention. So you're going to do something that's only possible in these circumstances, where you won't be the same DOS government anymore, as at the beginning, you'll never be the same DOS government again. You will become more and more DOS government, because when one government replaces one of its vice-presidents, with a very problematic argument, then the credibility of the entire government is at stake. As for what was heard about this speaker today, first of all, what our dear colleague said, it should be handled with caution, because it's a difficult story to believe, and on the other hand, it's hard not to believe, because there's always a human dilemma -- whether someone here is being abused or being manipulated. But the National Assembly is not a court and the MPs are not judges. We need to act on our conscience today, and our conscience says we will not participate in what is part of your problem, not more than what we do. We could be evil and look forward to new events like this, but that's not the essence of our political action either. The essence of our political action is to show that you are not what you presented when you entered the political public of Serbia and when you said you would be consistent, blameless, immaculate, etc. That's not what you did, just after a few months. So it's a story to think about, it's a message to voters and messages to Serbian citizens. This day will be quite clear. Nine minutes and zero seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8519	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, followed by MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8520	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Zoran Djindjic, the Prime Minister says that the inability of the Social Democracy to solve problems within his party and contradictory statements giving opposite camps or opposing camps in the Social Democracy presidency is one of the reasons why the Deputy Prime Minister Vuk Obradovic should be removed, because these problems are being transferred to the work of the government and that the government has committed itself to work that will be moral, honorable and in any other way responsible. We do not care about what problems the Social Democracy has, what they do at their sessions, we need evidence whether Vuk Obradovic has done his job in government with honor, honesty and security, and has solved the problems within that portfolio that he was entrusted with in the government. Mr. Vuk Obradovic says a commission report on which he was admitted to the government without discussion and unanimously adopted. We don't have the opposite evidence. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have big problems in the state, Kosovo is becoming a slowly independent state, we often have power shortages, everything accumulates, problems pile up, Mr. Korać wants to arrest and extradite The Hague without law, and we're discussing whether someone is, in what way, how, where, who is sucking his thumb, who is tearing off socks and how much who can. Ms. Milenkovic claims Serbian radicals support rape. We are, Mrs. or Miss Milenkovic, family people, and you first get married, have children, and then talk about it. I have a 19-year-old daughter, and I support rape? You should be ashamed of that, and Mr. President didn't even warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8521	Can this shop be closed there temporarily, until Minister Djelic sees it done without taxes, please, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8522	There is no evidence in writing, at least the Prime Minister did not deliver it to us, which speaks of some blame for Mr. Vuk Obradovic. There's no oral evidence. We heard Mr. Prime Minister today and he didn't tell us anything about it. On the contrary, we have much more reason to doubt some of the affairs that government president Djindjic, Batic and Dusan Mihajlovic are involved in. We do not defend Vuk Obradovic because we are politically fond of him. We can't wait for all of you to face each other as soon as possible. DOS is collapsing, and Serbia is better. We even want to speed up the conflicts between you, we don't like you, and we think it's better if you fight and leave as soon as possible. But we can't let the vice-presidents of the government be replaced by a noise and a hickey to avoid arguments in this way. We can't, like in that Orwell animal farm, have sheep grumbling, four legs of good, and two legs of evil, and that's how the arguments are extinguished and choked. Mr. Vuk Obradovic has owed us much. Mr. Vuke Obradovic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, you can't go to the National Assembly, in front of MPs of the National Assembly to say - some have been insidious, they've caused me trouble in my work, and they haven't given me reports, it's seen from the signatures of reports that they've brought, there's a lot of inaction, no information, etc. That someone or that group of people has a name, has a function. You don't have the right to commit yourself and say - honor commands me, I won't do it, I won't act the way they do. You are the Deputy Prime Minister not appointed by Djindjic, but selected by the National Assembly. You owe the National Assembly an answer if you have any obligations to anyone else, and I really don't want to go in there. We openly suspect that you've touched, that you've tampered with where you shouldn't have, that you've touched some of the jobs that are related to the prime minister, which are tied to some powerful people in the environment of the new government. We're not interested in sexual debates. Guys, we're serious people, we've got all the big kids, let's talk about it when we can and when it's time. I'm not going to argue, I'm going to talk on my behalf, I'm not going to discuss sexual affairs about people in some years when sex is better remembered than what we do. In the end, who will decide on the fate of Deputy Prime Minister Vuk Obradovic? Who will decide on the fate of Vice-President Vuk Obradovic, whether it will also be decided by MPs Vuk Obradovic says are no longer MPs, given the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and notices sent as party president on the basis of a decision from the main committee to the National Assembly. The fact that the Administrative Committee is not meeting, that the minister of justice, the executive body controlled by the Assembly, is expected to make a decision on who will be the MP, cannot be crucial. We ask, and here we ask Alexander Krstic, the chairman of the Administrative Committee, who prevents him, whether it is Vladan Batic, whether it is someone else, more powerful than Batic, to call on the Administrative Board and finally make a decision. What can happen? That we had made previous decisions and laws illegally, that they were decided by people who were not MPs or maybe they were MPs, but we need to know that clearly. Mr. Vice President, I invite you to assist the National Assembly in deciding and to bring out names and last names, functions and what you know about some people who have bothered you in your work and who you consider to be the reason for your replacement from the post of Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8523	The People's MP Branislav Blazic has the word, and after that, MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this first point in which a vote of no confidence is required for Mr. Vuk Obradovic shows in fact how deep the crisis is, and moral and stately, in which we as a people are, and as a state, we are. In addition to all the problems that the state has, one clearly mounted trial of the political circle, DOS politburo came to the Assembly to discuss it. Without any evidence, legally, on either side, or on the other hand, this congregation should give its judgment. Who is it that will take responsibility, judge and judge for something that has absolutely no evidence whatsoever. Or we're going back to old times, not so long ago, I thought of a quote when they said -- Comrade Stalin, we don't, we're trying to find him some blame, but we can't. Stalin answers - I don't limit you, do and impossible. And it's impossible to make mistakes, to insert insinuations or intrigues, to bring a man before the lynch, a moral lynch, which was so branched out in Bolshevik times. If that brings back time of Bolshevik persecution, that story -- we don't know it's your fault, but we hope you remember that, too. Is there a chase here in Serbia again? If so far we have both the lynch and the media persecution of political inexperiences, we are now in a position to have the persecution and the lynch of political like-minded. Often it is necessary to know who the bells are ringing, wondering who's ringing the bell, and trying to kill those bells well, to hear in Serbia, a lot of things about some people you don't know about, exactly on his commission, for whom he was in charge, but they pulled out his cranium and slaughtered some other people. He slaughtered Mr. Djindjic, the Prime Minister, who says here in the opening statement and gives three reasons why Mr. Vuk Obradovic is proposed to be removed from the post of Deputy Prime Minister. The first reason is the promise the government made. Gentlemen, I mean the moral thread of every government member, the promise that the government made, this government, except that it abolished the TV tax over an electric number, nothing but its promises has been fulfilled. Therefore, it is absurd and miserable to talk about the fulfillment of certain promises, when it has not fulfilled what is fundamental and most important to this people, which is what it has promised, a better life, money from abroad, major reforms and changes. She promised that grain would be from 10.00 to 12.00 dinars and that it would be paid immediately in a cantary, so now 7.50 dinars in three wars. She promised a lot of things, but she didn't keep anything, and it turns out she kept her promises. The second reason was that Mr Djindjic said the party lost its post as vice president, the Social Democracy, due to internal conflicts. Gentlemen, the internal conflicts in DOS continue uninterrupted. So much spit among DOS leaders, which we can read in the papers, is terrible. We don't see that DOS, except that we're feeling this decomposition smell, we don't see that that's why he finds a reason to have moral strength and the will to fall apart, as he says that if there's an internal conflict in Social Democracy, then he needs to be punished for not having his vice president. Then how is DOS supposed to be punished, that there are terrible internal conflicts. Finally, the third reason is that the DOS presidency decided. If the DOS presidency has decided why is it given to the Assembly? It is obvious that everyone will only vote because the DOS presidency decided, but the DOS presidency did not give valid arguments, it did not give evidence. Or are these people, who really should be morally clean, they could vote for something without any evidence of what they seem to have done. After all, Mr. Vuk Obradovic was given to lead a commission that must have been the most important and important to this government. When it was given to him, it was likely that his moral character was being debated, and I guess at the time his affinities could be known or otherwise decided, and now something completely different happened. I don't think I believe that anymore. These are stories for small children and all the polls we could see prove, however, people are aware that it's so transparent and that, if one man wanted to move away, it could have been done in a slightly more cultural way. This is, I say again, the time of the Bolshevik when it was pointing fingers or because of some intrigue, insinuation, people sent to Goli Island, persecuted and against them carried out the worst methods. Then we come to a contradiction now about that thesis that you kept talking about, and that's that there's no untouchable. Does this refer to the fact that there are no untouchables, referring to Mr. Vuk Obradovic, that he is now being punished. In fact, it turned out the opposite, that there are untouchables, because they are untouchable, by replacing the vice president, who was also the chairman of the Commission for the detection of major financial affairs, protected these people. So we actually have untouchables and the story remains exactly the same. If there were no untouchables, more serious things would be revealed today, such as the Galenika affair, the tobacco affair, the oil monopoly, the flag, how the ministries work, how the complaints and strikes are in certain social activities, what is really happening in this Serbia, and then it would be placed on the table and discussed. Like this, this gives one bitter taste of something that has to be avoided in every way. I repeat again that it is not up to us to judge here now, especially because we have no evidence, but one thing is for sure, this is a political process, one in a series of political processes that were in Serbia, and this is something that throws a dark shadow that really in Serbia democracy has not yet arrived, that perhaps because of their excessive desire for democracy, they have shaken their hands and in a Bolshevik way of dictatorship and force, to hand over the results. That time will show that if the path is not interrupted in time, the journey to an even greater misery and an even greater tragedy of this people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8525	The word is made by MP Miroljub Veljkovic, and then by MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8526	Dear MPs, in a hundred years of long parliamentary practice in Serbia, there was no more important topic for the government to face the Serbian parliament. We owe the Prime Minister Mr Djindjic and the President of the Assembly to Mr Marsican for making an urgent appointment of the National Assembly's extraordinary meeting and, as the first item of the agenda, the resolution of Vuk Obradovic for Serbian sex geyths, or sexual seduction. Since this government has already solved all the national and economic problems in this country, and we have read this in that brochure -- the first 100 days of the new Serbian government -- it is time for this high house to address this extremely difficult state and political problem. Just to remind myself briefly, this government has solved the problems of relations with Montenegro, the problems in southern Serbia, this government has introduced order in Kosovo, introduced only customs, Mr Djindjic has agreed with Canko over the division of Vojvodina assets, the investment cycle is in full swing, the people are radically growing standard, health and education are in full swing, peasants in Serbia are singing out of happiness because of the government's high-spirited moves in the economy sector and ultimately, companies are simply being kidnapped which will employ more workers and which will pay higher wages. In one word, the Serbian dealings with him are in full swing, honey and milk, honey and milk, respected MPs. Normally, by the reputation of the great dad, America's new government before this parliament comes with a key initiative for this political social moment, the replacement of the Deputy Prime Minister for sexual harassment. When this problem is solved practically, we MPs in this assembly by the end of this government's term and would have nothing to do. We've solved everything. So let's solve this big state problem and we're on horseback. Some things remain, though, such as oil, cigarette factories and the distribution of cigarettes, the pivatisation of attractive companies, etc. But it will not disturb the people's congregation. The executive government won't be harassing us with that. However, they take care of the MPs who chose them. These problems, we can call them problems, will solve them in the deep shade of ministerial cabinets with a glass of whiskey, a Cuban cigarette and normally along with those famous longtime announced, strategic partners. This big problem, getting back on topic, can't wait. This must be resolved today because of the great danger to the moral health and moral purity of the nation, and this is what Prime Minister Djindjic explained to us in three points, both briefly and concisely. First, the prime minister said Obradovic had become controversial about the sexual harassment affair and had to leave because of it. Also twenty days ago, Mr Djindjic said after a meeting of DOS representatives, over this difficult state problem, I quote "there should be undeniable people in the government". I fully support the prime minister in his position, and I expect, precisely because I support him in his position, that the prime minister resigns immediately because of his basic relationship with Balkan tobacco boss Stanko Sutotic Canet. If Mr. Obradovic is controversial that he winked or smiled or complimented a woman, Mr. Djindjic is controversial about the Cuba, due to a proven relationship with the tobacco mafia. So if government needs to be indisputable people, the first one to leave is Mr. Djindjic. The second point, Mr Djindjic told us that events in Social Democracy have gone beyond the party's scope, that this has come to the public and caused a scandal and for these reasons the government must react vigorously. So, if everything had been settled within the framework of Social Democracy, that's how I understood the prime minister, everything would be fine and there wouldn't have been a shift from Mr. Obradovic. If that scandal hadn't come to the public, had it not upset the public, it wouldn't have come to this shift and we'd be discussing it all day. As it's all come out in public, there's no mercy. I fully agree with the Prime Minister here. People who deal with public affairs, public figures, and how they have to take care of their behavior so that some bad things from their lives don't get out in public. But if we apply the same principle to all members of the government, Mr Djindjic has far more upset the public than Mr Obradovic. An affair launched by Zagreb's "National", related to business co-operation between Mr Djindjic and Djukanovic with the tobacco mafia... (The President): We do not discuss, so I warn you about it. I'm just making a parallel. You've been making that parallel three times already. It's really out of line. I'm just making a parallel, I'm talking about the same principle Mr. Djindjic advocates. (President: Go to the horizon, if it fits the subject, and parallels that have nothing to do with the topic, avoid. ) This affair, not only has the media area of the Balkans and Europe been shaking for a month, but it also begins to bring about the first physical liquidations of the actors of the affair. So, once again, I agree with the Prime Minister. If Mr Obradovic has to go because of the public affair, then because of a thousand times the public affair, and about what he wrote "National" and what all European media are writing right now, Mr Djindjic must leave immediately. The third point in the explanation of Zoran Djindjic why Mr Obradovic must leave. Mr Djindjic said they agreed on this at the DOS presidency or, as they have recently called it, DOS politburo. That, Mr. Djindjic, what you agreed on at your DOS presidency, that we, the MPs, should absolutely not be interested in us, at least in Serbian radicals, interest. We chose Mr. Obradovic on your proposal. Normally, we can solve it on your proposal. We don't care what you've been doing and agreed on that presidency of yours. It's your party stuff and this assembly shouldn't be interested. I think that you, as Prime Minister and all the ministers in this government, should get into your head once that this assembly is above your government, that your government must, as I say, listen to this assembly, not vice versa. Let me repeat this one more time - whether you've made a deal with your DOS presidency or with Grandma Gjuk, we're absolutely not interested in this people's assembly. Nor will they define us, I hope so, especially I address DOS MPs when voting on the trust of Mr. Obradovic. In the end, let me give an example of this spontaneity in the media right after this so-called outbreak. affairs. Two or three days after the outbreak of the affair, it was one organized hack over all the electronic media, through all the written media. I watched in the morning program on this unbiased new RTS TV, the host brought in a man who deals with horoscopes, astrology. There he first explained that it was one of the most important teachings, etc. Finally, quite spontaneously, the manager asks him -- what do you think of Mr. Obradovic's political future? Normally, this one says quite spontaneously, since he looked at the stars there and that horoscope -- I recommend that he keep his mouth shut and accept the conclusions of the DOS presidency. So much for spontaneity.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8527	Mr. Seselj, second call. After him, MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8528	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vuk Obradovic is guilty. Vuk Obradovic is guilty of believing in false DOS promises that a sincere fight against crime will be fought. Vuk Obradović was guilty because he didn't know... (Mr. Zoran Djindjic leaving the hall) Djindjic, wait, I have something important. Now you're all my witnesses that he didn't want to stay. I have the right to speak of him as if he were here. Vuk Obradovic was guilty of thinking that his task was not only to scold and persecute people from the previous regime, regardless of whether they had an affair behind them or not, but also to prosecute DOS officials, if they were wrong about the law. Vuk Obradovic is guilty because he believed it was Serbia's primary interest to preserve "Gallenika" without the primary interest of Milan Panic to take over "Gallenika". Vuk Obradovic was guilty because he believed that Dusan Mihajlovic, the interior minister, was not untouchable and that his company "Lutra" should also be subjected to a request to investigate all major criminal affairs. Vuk Obradovic is also guilty of not inventing freezers with corpses. Vuk Obradovic is to blame that he, like Vladan Batic, has not begun to abuse power by taking care that he gets later on, like Vladan Batic, lost trials everywhere. Vuk Obradovic is guilty of not having one Vladimir Popovic-Beba, the main criminal in Serbia, who has already matured to the role of Deputy Prime Minister, who cheers and dresses, burns and burns in Serbia and monopolies the most attractive business with excise goods. Vuk Obradovic is guilty because he is not Stanka Subotica-Caneta's partner and that his private plane did not drive abroad, officially. Vuk Obradovic is guilty of not forming gang criminals like Vladan Batic to kidnap Slobodan Milosevic and other people who are being prosecuted by The Hague tribunal, and to deliver them to the Americans. Vuk Obradovic is guilty of not reaching out to Dragoljub Markovic, the owner of the company "Krmivo Product", whom even the laws of Serbia adapt to make his business more successful. Vuk Obradovic is guilty of not building the same Dragoljub Markovic house in Banovci, like Zoran Djindjic. I was already talking about that house here. Cedomir Jovanovic came out for a pay phone and said he has the right to build a house with his own money. After several days, Djindjic goes public and says, "Whoever finds the house is his." Now, I found Djindjic's house in the Banovci. Here's a picture of that house. Now I ask Djindjic to give me that house. Djindjic escapes. You know, right there's something called a public promise of reward. Ma'am, you're a lawyer and you know what a public promise reward is. I now have the right to sue Zoran Djindjic and look for the house, because he has made a public promise - whoever finds that house will be his. Now I'm gonna have two houses. Why not? What else is Vuk Obradovic's fault? Vuk Obradovic has never been caught in perjury. Here, on 16 May 2001, about 17.30 a.m., in a check, on the 15th line, in Susari, Minister of Agriculture Dragan Veselinov was caught in wild boar poaching, with a no-karabine 243 for that kind of hunting. The minister was found in that place by hunter Zoran Đuric, who warned him that he was hunting with banned weapons and that he had no license for such a kind of hunt, which Dragan Vesenov replied to and lied that he was hunting under the permission of the head of the land, although the director had no right to issue such a permit past the head of the Jovica Bratvarevic hunting, who later refused to approve the poaching, and was therefore removed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8529	Since this is not on the agenda, please focus your attention on what the topic of the agenda is. Don't forget to have two warnings.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8530	Maybe they'll kick me out before Dragan Vesenov gets here, so who's to say I won't miss it all? It's all Vuk Obradovic's fault, and maybe there's some blame I didn't investigate, but I'll investigate, don't worry about it, I'll investigate everything. [[Laughter]] We'll investigate all criminal affairs, everything the brothers of Burgius do. I hear now in Novi Sad that the police have tripped them a little bit, so we'll see the outcome of all this. We'll look into all these things. Instead of you, who, when you don't have any arguments, invent criminal affairs, we're going to have very, very strong arguments. As for Vuk Obradovic, he has much more to do with God and people. It's his fault he was in the coalition with you in the first place. He once saw what you were like, in the Alliance for Change, so he left, so he came back again. He knew who you were and what you were, he shouldn't have gone with you. Now that he's gone with you, here's what happened to him. Vuk Obradovic was guilty of not being more open and determined and more determined to present all the criminal affairs he knew about and who he now knows about. Vuk Obradovic is guilty of not ringing for the alarm immediately, as soon as the first affair was exposed. It was about Galenika, as much as my memory serves. Instead of immediately informing parliament, he went to the Serbian government and said -- here I have proven, "Gallenika" belongs to the state of Serbia. Djindjic first called the government's college, the government's college had nowhere to go, he had to accept. They issued a statement and immediately afterwards launched a campaign against Vuk Obradovic. I have very reliable information, they will be published by "Great Serbia" in the following issue, that many have traveled to an agreement with Milan Panic. That it is in direct agreement with Milan Panic and Slobodan Orlic, that big money is in play. Milan Panic is worth it, I guess, to sacrifice one or two million dollars and steal 70, or a hundred, or a hundred and fifty million dollars, how much ambition he has to steal from Galennica. That's the point. Now, how do you escape from this essence, that's your problem. Your affairs are multiplying at a geometric rate. Why? Is it a climate, are we irradiated during that NATO pact bombing? No, your affairs are multiplying by geometric progression, because you represent concentration, unprecedented concentration, that's what people tend to do. To you is the basic purpose of politics - get as much as you can, take, steal, steal, embezzlement and don't think about what's going to happen tomorrow. That is the kind of power Serbia has never had. It seems that God has punished Serbia, to try it once and for all. And here's the punishment going on, but I'm relying on God and I expect that punishment won't last too long, another month, two, at the top of chapter three, and you're gone. What you're still showing in this whole thing, and that's a lot of anxiety. In that nervousness, you think you need to choke those few media outlets that haven't been under your control yet. One of the only newspapers in Belgrade, "The Witness", is now under your control. One of the only private TV palma is now under your control. Whoever monopolies all the media doesn't stay in power very long. The one whose law lies in the topless, his tracks smell like inhumanity. You've already raised the inhumane into a cube. Instead of today, Mr. President, we at the front of the agenda have a choice of new judges of the Constitutional Court, we obviously won't have for much longer the Constitutional Court, because DOS authorities are bothered by the Constitutional Court, any. If you had brought all your elected lawyers to the Constitutional Court of Serbia, Serbia would have been more tolerable than you avoid having a Constitutional Court at all. (President: Time. That says how unclean your conscience is. Now, that guilty conscience of yours will then be picked by the judicial authorities, for no one has burned until dawn. What you have sown for this short time, your eight-month or nine-month-old authorities, will be very soon upon you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8531	According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point out something that is obvious to all of you, and it is about article 99, and it is about the conduct of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This isn't the first time he was away today I tried to warn the lady who replaced him. To me and everyone in the O.R., even to the DOS majority, so she gave two warnings to everyone in the O.R. for completely unknown reasons. Please do not keep repeating your jokes and jokes about hunting stories, as well as this morning about neuropsychiatrists, to apologize to the MPs. If you don't want to apologize, let's be absolutely clear about what kind of man this is and what it's about. Let me repeat the question, if there are cases that are for neuropsychiatrics or who don't deserve to be in this room, to go to the doctor, so tell me who they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8533	Is that a replica or a Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8534	I'm talking about the Rules of Procedure. If there are none, Mr. President, you must resign or at least apologize to everyone. Not every time one of the MPs or representatives of the SRS tells, or any other political organisation that doesn't belong to DOS, that by throwing it away (if it's hunting stories, or if it's going to be some other "joke" imposter) you distract the speakers, that you insult all the MP groups and those behind the pay phone. This isn't the first time. I ask you to take care of it, as each of us, in accordance with our political beliefs, is trying to speak reasonably, rationally, and in a rational manner from this pay phone. That obligation does not exempt you. On the contrary, it must be the greatest in you, and you are infringing it most often. Now all MPs, not just the MPs of the SRS, but everyone, because in the hall and MPs of the DOS's majority were approaching, people couldn't believe what was happening this morning in the morning's session. What you just repeated is just proof of all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8535	I don't know how you, especially when you weren't in the O.R., understood that the comment on the neuropsychiatrist was about the MPs of the SRS. I'm really sorry that you recognize yourself that way. It wasn't my intention anyway. (Employer Vukic, from the scene: How was I not in the O.R.? Well, you were in the O.R. It's not about whether you were in the O.R., it's about who was older -- parliament or the Department of Justice. I have set an example -- with the solutions of neuropsychiatrists, it can be taken away from the parliamentary right to candidacy, for example, election law, working ability, etc., which does not mean that the neuropsychiatrist is older than parliament. Nothing more about it. I don't know why you think that's directed towards your MP group. (Employer Seselj, from the post: Just one correction) Would you correct Mr. Wolfich? Please don't. The replica has Mr. Jovanovic, he will stand up himself when he gets back, you tell him what he needs to correct, and he will correct it. The word is Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8536	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, among other things, analysed the DOS election result of 24 September and 23 December, came to a cultural conclusion: that citizens did not only vote to change the political option that would push the country, but that they voted much more for a change in life and its essence. Speaking of everything that we've been through as a society in the last 10 years, they've, and we with them, come to a common conclusion that is also a fundamental feature of that time. It is one, 200 or 300 years behind, despotia, in the areas of today's Serbia. A despotia dominated by despotism, the degradation of all institutions, the despotia that was characterized by the court's mad. 300 years ago, the court madmen performed in front of the despot, mocked him, and most often themselves. But 200 years from now, if nothing has evolved in Serbia, the institution of the court has evolved mad, so the organisations of the court's mad, which may, rightly, be playing with this parliament today, point to the problems that are present and which mark, among other things, the democratic opposition to Serbia. Because if we're guilty of something, we're guilty of showing our trust to whoever we're denying this trust today. But even more guilt would be to bow our heads and keep quiet, if we didn't have the courage to talk about the problem, that we didn't have the courage to bring this problem to the state institutions and the most responsible representatives of the citizens of our society. But we also don't have the right to remain silent when someone organized, by means of the court's crazy method, throws out a mockery not of us, not of our houses, not of our vehicles, but of those who can no longer answer it. To play with hundreds of dead people, besides whom every day, as Deputy Prime Minister and then as SRS President Vojislav Seselj, has been going on for the past two years, very well knowing what is where investigators of the District Court are digging up today, is more than hypocritical and this parliament has no right to allow such behaviour. The government that you were in called the association of battlefields. We will not hold an association of political battlefields, nor an association of parliament, but I suggest, since you are a person who is politically brave, that we form a polling committee, Mr. Seselj, so today, when you go to your Batajnica, to the 13th of May, to turn 200 meters off the road, to face what you have made of this Serbia and so to clear our society. You're ashamed of what you said here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8537	Please, just three minutes, so I'm warning him... Please, you'll see a stenogram. He volunteered for the replica. He's got the word for replica, please check the notes... Don't tell me. Check your notes. (The President speaks to the messenger Seselj who asked for the word - replica. ) Check your notes, you'll have your notes in one hour. Check it out, then pick up the word, don't throw it out of the place, learn one MP's order, for God's sake. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Ivkovic. Excuse me, you've held the Rules of Procedure, first call, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8538	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the government. I have to tell you that I am now even more confident than I am in the morning, when I answered, that this session is not well prepared at all. Don't be angry, Mr. Chairman, but I also blame you for a significant part of the guilt. This session had to be much better prepared. You, as chairman, should have cleared up the request on May 10th, the Administrative Board could have sat down. If he was to refuse, he could refuse, and then the present MPs from the Social Democracy framework would sit here with full right. If he accepted it, then we would not be sitting, but in any case the fact remains that the citizens of Serbia and we, present here, who do not want to be present, want it or not, are being dragged into it. The second feature of this session is unlike your previous behaviour, one great rigidity in holding a session for individual MPs and total freedom, as it was just now, for other MPs. I have to say, I was caught with that fact. It would be good for the citizens of Serbia, for all of us, to break this item of the agenda, to maintain the Administrative Board, to make any decision and to continue the session afterwards, as this is the next one. We can't as members of the Assembly not to feel it and not to estimate that there simply has to be something stocollegium (or I can call it polythyroid, or whatever you want) DOS has to decide. But as far as I can tell, he didn't decide everything. He decided to propose the resignation of Deputy Prime Minister and did not decide on the fate of Social Democracy as parties and its representatives in parliament. We, from the SPS, will not participate. We simply believe that this is the internal problem of this party that it needs to resolve, the internal problem of DOS. And if you've already solved everything in this country that you're doing, that you're changing so much, ask those who can't drive cars in Serbian rulers right now -- why are they in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia and what are the changes, then finish that job past us, and don't drag us all in. Because if we could talk about changes, then we could talk about what's going on at the Technical School in Despotovac, where the wife, the director, received the support of 95% of the collective members, and the minister of education appointed a man who married his student at the time she was a student. Please, where's the morale? What kind of morality are we talking about? Do we send our daughters to school to be seduced by teachers who will later be directors of DOS regimes? Please, about this and how much to talk about, but I suggest we interrupt this session right now, that the Management Board finish its work. Finally, and if there is a vote, the question is whose votes are legitimate. Whether one Social Democracy representative or five representatives. We're not taking part in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8539	I hate to say it, but I have to answer the line, although I hate to do it. The president's coming out for a pay phone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8540	Right on the line, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8541	It's been mentioned several times, and there's no need to apologize when you put a grudge on it. There's really no need. I guess grudges are a natural thing. As far as the Administrative Board is concerned, your members of that committee took part in the work of that committee at 12:00 today. There's no need to repeat the same story over and over again. The Management Board session was held today. It's about the board of directors. Secondly, as far as the criteria are concerned, you know, when one member of the Parliament says it represents an unprecedented concentration of hohstapplers, thieves, mobsters, robbers, and I don't know what not, and if it's still believed that this MP has the right to be called a MP, then, if nothing else (if he can still bear that name, and we're such a society and we're going to be able to for some time to do so) then even if the other MP can answer that way, which I also disagree with, is that it's a group of court crazy, etc. We have an extremely unpleasant situation for MPs, mutually opposed, to discuss it that way. But again, it all depends on all of you MPs. It cannot react to the vulgarity, to the stupidity, to the insults, to the worst possible words spoken here, which are addressed to fellow Members of the people who represent shame and to those who pronounce them and to our entire country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8542	Please, Mr. Seselj, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8543	Unfortunately, some of us also represent part of the Serbian people here, you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8544	The word has a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic. You have no right to the Rules of Procedure, because your word has been taken from you. All you have is the right to the replica. (He speaks to the Messenger Wolf. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8545	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've seen all kinds of parliaments in 10 years and all kinds of MPs and all kinds of parliamentary presidents, but the one we have today, I haven't seen yet. If one MP speaks to the parliamentary group, then the head of the parliamentary group may possibly answer him and the two may exchange praises or insults, as they will. Mr. President, your boss can't call an entire assembly of court freaks. Besides, the environment we're sitting in might have made us that way. Today, the president of the Segedin Group, or governments, as they like to call themselves, presents to this parliament the most important problem that is currently shaking Serbia, the problem of sexual harassment of the youth, co-workers and members of the Social Democracy, the female sex. And because of that, and not only because of that, but also because it appeared in the newspaper, which otherwise DOS controls, and because this problem has come out of the framework of Social Democracy, and I think that the problem has also been made outside Social Democracy, today it is necessary to vote no confidence of the first Deputy Prime Minister, Vice-President of the Government in charge of crime, to discover how many companies and individuals, unfoundedly and using privileges, in this country, and that what they have unjustly acquired, to this country, or to the citizens of this country, are returned. I could swear that this reason, which the Prime Minister presented, is not the real reason, even if what the press has been buzzing about for months. That's not the real reason. The real reasons are much deeper. The real reasons are that the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vuk Obradovic, apparently tried to offend, I don't know whether sexually or otherwise, against the minions of the Segedin group who took advantage of privileges, acquaintances and other things. The basic, or one of the basic reasons is that there are no company lists, which have benefited from special benefits, and we know that this list has been, there is no list of individuals, which have been used, and we know that this list has been, apparently, no law that would regulate this procedure, because your very well-informed journalists claim to be withdrawn from the assembly procedure. Evidence for the so-called sexual harassment, except for the press inscriptions, no. I'm not going to repeat the articles in the press, which refer to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Government, and I'm not inclined to believe that what was written in the paper about Mr. Vuk Obradovic is true, but I'm inclined to believe, for example. that the Minister of Trade calls home to the judges of the Court of Commerce, to tell them what verdict they will make. I'm inclined to believe it because my cousin called. It seems that Mr. Vuk Obradovic's basic problem is that he discovered that however you hit the top of the government in the country, he gave birth to the underworld, or he gave birth to the mafia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8546	The word has a folk ambassador, Stevan G. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8547	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Prime Minister and Minister, it's been almost four months since the government was appointed, and after four months we're getting three small paragraphs of explanation to replace the Deputy Prime Minister. If that argument had come after two and a half years, we might have understood it, if such an explanation had come to one of the anonymous ministers, which we only heard about when we were presented here, so we would understand. However, such an argument came to the vice-president of the government who was given a very important portfolio, following the vice president's statement that the commission and the law would be struck by some in the government. To put it this way, the vice president, Mr. Obradovic, has "put his finger in the eye" some. So we're still moving away, because there's someone who's your role model, and when someone admits a sexual affair, it's not changed, and here, when they don't admit it, it needs to be replaced. Here and when you're not guilty, if someone decided you were, then you're the end of the story. Here, and when someone remembers somebody touched him three years ago, it turns out you're guilty. Well, if someone touched someone three years ago, why do we need to discuss it now, if he didn't remember in time, he probably had a nice time. To say the least, we came to a situation, and when someone isn't guilty (I have no reason to defend Mr. Obradovic, I heard him like this, and so, when he talks to me in Beocino), I don't know that someone like this has to answer. It's more likely they should match someone else. Today, Mr. Djindjic said it came out in public, etc. So it bothers the work of the government how much worse things got out than this. Because, frankly, that no one is offended, some seduction, if it was in this case, there was never much sin in Serbia. God forbid dating between men etc., but this male-female, it was never some special sin in Serbia, so I don't even know that now there's some particularly great sin, especially when it's on a voluntary basis on two sides. But everything that's in the press, where we've read about this affair, and in the same press that we've read everything else -- that's much worse than this. It's something that has far greater real damage to Serbia, and that's not what we're talking about here. There is no discussion, regardless of what has been said today, the word, etc., was taken away when the prime minister was mentioned. But if someone says that someone else is morally unsuitable, the right to comment on his inadequacy cannot be taken away from the MPs. These media are much worse and there aren't any others, unfortunately, that's how it is. These media have written more truths than Mr. Obradovic since they probably wrote the truth about Mr. Djindjic than Mr. Obradovic, so it would probably be fairer if Mr. Djindjic had resigned, along with the government, even if you gave him the mandate to make a new one than this. Because you can vote it, although it turns out that the question is whether or not you can vote. It wasn't real a few days ago, it was a vote of confidence and mistrust to a minister. If I were him, I wouldn't be sitting in the O.R. 88 or 89 MPs, 87, do not matter at all how much, much less than 126, and even in the congregations, the Executive Board is resolved and set up with a half-dominated majority of those present. You'll have trouble here today or tomorrow, depending on how long this is going to take, whether or not you'll vote what your prime minister ordered. I wish you good luck, so I'll see you at the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8548	The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, has the word, and after that, the MP of Kircani Olgica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8549	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today when Serbia is at a crossroads of its existence, Serbia appears to be coming down to Belgrade's pasture under DOS rule. When the government of the Republic of Serbia avoids discussing Kosovo and Metohija's problem, when it avoids discussing the Vojvodina problem, when it avoids discussing the problem of the Raska area, it resorts to discussing some party minor problems. When this meeting is to discuss: the current biggest problem, the fate of agriculture, the work of Minister Vesenov, the price of wheat, milk, fruit and vegetables and the most expensive sowing in the last 30 years, the import of artificial fertilizer and the closure of domestic factories for the production of artificial fertilizer - we deal with the problem of a party whose problems are probably everyday, and the work of the municipal committees of that party. It shows here that some government officials from the current government, who created large capital within 10 years of the former regime, have been touched. They were probably afraid of the Commission for the fight against crime and the evidence of acquired dirty capital. I'd ask the Prime Minister, since I know he didn't work anywhere he wasn't a peasant, he wasn't a worker, he wasn't an industrial intellectual, and he wasn't a university professor, he was just a party president, and he owns that kind of capital. At the start of his DOS campaign, current Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic said that every official of the new government will report his mobile and immovable property. However, it has nothing to do with it. They now feared that the Commission, which they themselves formed, would find great abuses in the creation of capital. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of discussing improving the population policy in Serbia and how young people should be stimulated to create families, to increase birth, and to find jobs for them, we are, in fact, dealing with some banal party issues daily. If there is immorality it is right here with you, it is not here, and that is the president of the Chamber of Commerce Radoslav Veselinovic, otherwise the owner of the company "Galeb", he has two wives. He is a member of the Demochrist Party and as such, immoral, and could not perform the function he is in today. Ladies and gentlemen, today Serbia is ruled by hunger, poverty and poverty. When workers are threatened to lose their jobs, according to Minister Vlahovic, when workers need to be requalified, when the molar is supposed to be a Schneider, these are today's problems that the government wants to escape from. No economic capacity after the five-October revolution is working, workers are out of a job, and we are discussing a sexual affair today. You probably want to imitate the West and the Americans in everything, so you wanted to have affairs like the one that rocked Clinton and America for months. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem these days is the roadblocks, by peasants dissatisfied with the ransom price of wheat. Do you know what the thirst of the wheat is going to be, the combination is not, and what has old and lasted and works on the bounds of the decay? There are no spare parts, and in the factory, dragon workers are on paid leave. Many wheat this year will fail because Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic and Agriculture Minister Dragan Veselinov are not interested in helping the village and peasants. The Minister of Agriculture doesn't speak at all about all these problems. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a revolution in school these days. To enroll a child in college today and to study, an entire fortune needs to be allocated. It is the work of Minister Gaša Knezevic. This is where we want the children of workers and peasants not to see college rooms, let alone to finish their studies because of the inability to finance. It is wanted that children of wealthy and suspiciously wealthy people become owners and tenants, the time is coming - you have money, you have a diploma. Zoran Djindjic, since becoming prime minister, has been in Germany seven times, and Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic is on a plane to work in Paris, which is what the government and the Serbian people are paying for. The prime minister has been deaf about all calls by strikers of the password "Viskoza" (and it is only 100km from Belgrade) to listen to the demands of workers and managers who support even local DOS officials. To comment on why he doesn't visit factories but goes abroad, Mr. Jinjiqići reports - I have nothing to gain from you, and I have one of them. More than 6,000 workers are on forced vacation, production is gone, wages are gone, workers have nothing to eat, hunger and misery is here. Loznica was the city that first received refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska, the first to provide food and accommodation to refugees, and now she is barefoot and hungry. The biggest scandal is related to the Beocinska cement factory and its sale involving Zoran Djindjic and Aleksandar Vlahovic. Also, ladies and gentlemen, the biggest scandal is taking place in the Mačvan region, the Mepritlastika factory from Šapac, connected to the president of the Chamber of Commerce, Radoslav Veseinovic, and the layoff of workers, all under the auspices of Vladan Batic, Dusan Mihajlovic and Zoran Djindjic. Opening a cigarette factory, Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic and Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic in Kragujevac in the "Red Flag", wanted to round up their mafia process. It's called scandals and voter fraud by DOS authorities. In the end, I have to say to Mr. Ljubivo Slavkovic, you said you were fighting in Serbia under the coat of democracy. I don't know if you've realized if this is today called DOS democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, it turns out that the government and Assembly is Zoran Djindjic, that he is setting up and replacing ministers and vice-presidents of the government. Which is a lot, a lot of tobacco mobsters.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8550	The People's Messenger, Olga of Kircan, has the word, and after it is the Messenger of the people, Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8551	Members of the government, Mr. MPs, I would like to remind you that we have moved away from the topic and that the central issue on the agenda today is not at all naive or harmless. We today need to make a decision that has dimensions far beyond and far greater consequences. The question here is whether we're going to advocate the protection of fundamental human rights, which are trying to make a mockery here, and be slyly referred to as courtship, seduction, or whatever you want, and this is about a brutal violation of fundamental human rights, abuse and abuse of official position. On the one hand, you are inclined to challenge all these claims and to seek evidence. This isn't a court. The evidence was delivered to the court and the public prosecutor, acting on official duty, initiated an investigation procedure. There are a large number of people here who defend the protection of human rights and among other things I must remind you that this is about 15 of the 22 members of the presidency, 8 of the 9 MPs, two of the three federal MPs from Social Democracy, in whose choice Mr Obradovic himself participated and elected his closest associates. They all asked him to withdraw from all functions in the party and in the government because, based on what they were faced with, they were firmly convinced that he had misused the official position and violated the fundamental human rights. It is true that in our law there is no category of sexual harassment, but the public prosecutor found the elements for the initiation of the investigation in other intended, or existing forms of criminal law. So it would be abuse of official position, abuse, and that would be that in this place you, if you think we should present some details, they'll be brought to court and this isn't where you're being tried. We here today decide whether, on the one hand, we will make a mockery of something called protection of human rights, protection of the greatest values in our society, or we will succumb to one paranoid atmosphere that is all a matter of conspiracy, all a matter of planting, of setting up. We may have lived a long time in a time in which everything was justified and explained in this way. I have to say, on the other hand, I'm asking for these commissions to be demystified, even though this is not the right time and time to say exactly who, when, where, and why is behind a conspiracy. I think the time for such a thing will pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8552	The People's MP Rodoljub Sabic has the word, and next reported is MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8553	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the resolution of Dr. Vuk Obradovic from the post of Serbian Deputy Prime Minister. It's about a man whose I was one of my closest associates until yesterday. It's about a man who was soon the leader of a party to whom he himself belonged. I saw his successes and failures recently as my own, and I am most honest when I say that within the limits of my objective capabilities I have done everything I could to make these successes as great as possible, and failures are smaller. Today I am, it is no secret, with him in a political conflict. The contrast of these two facts, as well as that of me and my colleagues from the presidency of the people of Vuk Obradovic, publicly titled me as traitors, vermin, vultures, bastards and the like, points to the risk that my exposure today would be too harsh. I am aware of this danger, I am aware of the dignity of this home and will try to bring out the facts and dilemmas that I consider relevant in an objective way, truly determined not to insult or hurt Vuk Obradovic needlessly. My first knowledge that Vuk Obradovic disqualified himself is based on the information I received from the discussions with four women from his immediate environment. It is about four women of different physical and intellectual qualities, different social and material status. They are linked by the fact that they were in direct contact with Vuk Obradovic. All four have unequivocally confirmed that he has treated them in a scandalous and inadmissible manner in different situations and have all confirmed the willingness to speak of these ugly experiences both Vuk Obradovic in person and in court. After all, I heard that there was another number of women who had or allegedly had unpleasant experiences with Vuko Obradovic. I didn't talk to them, and that's for my point of view and unnecessary, because I have no dilemma that those first four were telling the truth. I'm talking, ladies and gentlemen, about my conviction. I don't want to tell you about the ugly, brutal or flattering details of the stories I've heard. I gave my opinion and opinion on the matter and in the four eyes of Vuk Obradovic, publicly wrote and signed and responded to the court's first call for a private libel suit. I didn't call for immunity, none of my colleagues did, although you do know that this assembly would easily give it up for private criminal charges. I didn't call because I think that would be unclean. I was talking about what I'm convinced is true and I'm convinced that in court we're going to prove that we haven't slandered anyone. So, I didn't have any dilemmas about the situation I was talking about, I didn't have any dilemmas, but even if I did, Vuk Obradovic would have separated them in his later reactions. I'm not going to say that I noticed that especially the opposition colleagues think it's too high to talk about interpartial matters, I'm not going to talk about the events in the party that followed after the opening of this problem. I will mention only two things that have been provoked by others in the context of problems related to the legitimacy of the mandate of some MPs. So, I'm going to talk about a session of the board of directors, who was who she was. It was a session attended by dozens of people who were neither members of the General Committee nor members of the party. It was a session in which, regardless of the tucocolity, it was refused to identify which of the members of the General Committee were there. These people were frnetically Scanning their leader, and I and my colleagues were insulting me in the most brutal way. Such a main committee has decided to exclude me and my colleagues from the party. I want to say, to be quite clear, that this main committee was completely legal, so that the call was made, that it was established that all members of the General Committee were present and that there was no one outside the board of directors, that decision would again be contrary to the statute of Social Democracy. Under our statutes, either the municipal board or an exceptional assessment shall exclude it from the party. So, regardless of the debate whether the mandates of DOS or Social Democracy, if I were legally excluded from my party, the debate itself would not interest me, and as an honest man I would be obliged to return that mandate, whether DOS bids on that term or not. The other thing, gentlemen, even though there are two conflicted currents in the party, there is probably one such body in all parties that interprets legal validity. Such a commission has announced the party's presidency's decision as something that is in line with the statutes. Should I say that the president and most members of the commission are excluded from the party? That's it, gentlemen, that would separate all my dilemmas, even if I had them, and there I interrupt every conversation about what would concern the internal party life in Social Democracy. I just want to say that in an organized society, anything that happens in a party, and especially in a party that participates in power, can't be treated exclusively as an intrapartisan thing. If for nothing else, then because someone who repeatedly marries the statutes of his own party, who does not respect the will of his own commission, elected by Congress, as well as him, that someone simply does not provide guarantees. So it is not logical to expect that one who does not respect the act that he himself has brought will respect the Constitution, the laws and regulations of this country. That's what a government official is expected to do. Speaking of law and legality, it's impossible not to mention any more things. So, at press conferences, a certain Mr. Spasic, who speaks on behalf of Vuk Obradovic, waves some kind of report in which he presents some, I will say terrifying, disinformation. I'll only mention two. So, in comparison, there are real chances, at least according to Mr. Spadić's position, that my colleagues and I received some fabulous four million marks to bring down Vuk Obradovic. Gentlemen, I must now tell you that this is an extremely serious matter. When such a thing is made public, when there is someone's claim that MPs are receiving emasculating amounts, from abroad, to bring down one of the vice-presidents of the government, it's a matter that the authorities have to deal with. So, just because it's me, I insist that the team must deal with both the MUP and the State Security and the D.A.'s office. Such a thing simply has to end with criminal responsibility. Either someone is responsible for taking bribes and abuse of official position, or someone is responsible for slander and spreading false news. The second thesis that is also in the report, it is the the thesis that we set out on Vuk Obradovic to bring down General Nebojsa Pavkovic and a group of generals gathered around him, and if we succeed, then we will marginalise SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica. So I'm looking at that thing a lot different. Vojislav Kostunica is the president of the SRJ, thanks to the votes of millions of citizens of the country. I think it's past the time when a group of generals, gathered around anyone, decided who would lead the Republic. I believe that, at least in that regard, we can all agree here. Finally, I must say that I do not want to underestimate you or myself with further comments from such alleged conspiracies. Some things, of course, I had to look back. I said, it must result in any criminal responsibility of the claim that someone received four million marks to bring down the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister. But speaking of crimes, I must say that it is a crime and a threat, not only by slaughter, but also by any other serious threat to any man or member of his family. A criminal act is also a sure thing to try and hack someone's website and threaten the provider, no matter what website. It is also a criminal act when you put the editor of any radio or television, regardless of who he chooses to be the guest of his show, in.... the death of a family member. The crime is every physical attack on anyone, including a political inexperience. Stonery is, of course, an extremely serious form of such work. It's certainly a crime to kidnap anyone, including a journalist or a journalist. In doing so, it's all one thing why this kidnapping is taking place. It would not be an extenuating circumstance even if the journalist had unauthorizedly recorded her long night conversation with Vuk Obradovic, although it turned out not to be. But here we just have to ask ourselves, what would it be like on that tape if it were really recorded? What's so important that justifies the night... in the car and illegal interception and search. A crime is also certain to rob drawers, no matter whose desk, without his knowledge and presence. When this seems to be without the involvement of the internal affairs authorities, and the public informs of obtaining allegedly serious evidence, it is a new crime. And when the results of such a search are alleged evidence of listening, the preparation of the assassination in which Obradovic and his closest associates should die in the most terrible torments, or even of the practice of black magic and return, there stands reason and every comment is excessive. Ladies and gentlemen, all these crimes I was talking about really happened in Belgrade, Kruševec, Fireman and Prokuplje. There's evidence of that with the authorities. Of course, I'm not saying that these acts were committed by Vuk Obradovic himself. But he knew about those actions and let them. Such treatment is incompatible with a high-level state-level carrier. Ladies and gentlemen, this fact alone, even if we could forget everything else, would be sufficient to determine the fate of a proposal to resolve the holders of any state function, let alone the vice-president of the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8554	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic. The next one reported for the discussion is National MP Natasa Milojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8555	Dear Presidency, distinguished members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been discussing something all day that the parliament, not even the newer political history of Serbia, has not met. We are discussing the illegal and improper behaviour and procedures of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, according to co-workers in the cabinet of the same vice president. At this morning's session, following the presentation of Prime Ministers Vlada, Mr Djindjic and the date for this speaker, Mr Vuk Obradovic, I expected that Vuk Obradovic (especially after saying that there are very important points on the agenda of today's session, which concerns the Law on Extra Profit and Extra Profits and the Law on Privatisation) would help all of Serbia's MPs and the general public to resolve this problem as soon as possible and that, if even a little honor and had to remain in it, they would resign for this speaker. But I was wrong. The wolf Obradovic has deceived us again, for who knows which time he has deceived us. I'll remind you, he suggested that he approach the vote immediately this morning, so without having a debate on his resolution. That's how, for who knows which time, he's shown that he doesn't care about the public, and especially not about the truth that's been told many times today from this pay phone. Vuk Obradovic's behaviour, as everyone knows, has shaken both the political and wider public of Serbia. However, through this case Serbia faced something most of my predecessors spoke of, which is the phenomenon of political responsibility. The dispute over sexual harassment and abuse of co-workers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, by Vuk Obradovic, has turned into a dispute over fundamental social principles. On the one hand, there was a concept of authoritarian and irresponsible authority with an untouchable and unmistakable leader, and on the other hand, a commitment to democratic change, in which we will all establish one mechanism, a mechanism by which everyone’s personal responsibility, regardless of the function and position in this society, will be established. The first concept, as you all know, implies in itself that more or less everything is allowed. So it's a battle to preserve naked existence. So it's a battle to be or not to be. This is the understanding that the loss of a political function or position in society means and is seen as the end of life. Of course, then all resources are allowed. The wolf Obradović, unfortunately, followed this concept most consistently. By yesterday, he threatened his closest associates personally or through bodyguards, who he quickly collected and paid, by being expelled from Serbia, as he likes to say - by destroying each type: material, financial and moral. It is democracy, my dear fellow MPs, according to the model of Vuk Obradovic. You know, it's a democracy that was mirrored by a famous daily Belgrade newspaper in the section called "Ovens and Responses", when most of the citizens of this country were able to celebrate the successes of their beloved leader, and anyone who thinks differently, or who suspects the honesty, intentions and well-meaning of the leader, crucified in a variety of ways. How did the worshipers of the character and the work of Vuk Obradovic protect their sinless, worshiped and untouchable, all-powerful leader? Our colleagues, the MPs of the DOS coalition, remember very well what kind of arsenals of insult, the curses we faced in some previous times, and what they called us all representatives of the former regime. I would not talk about the terms mentioned at that session of the main committee, which are addressed to all my colleagues who have dared to ask for a resolution, or the resignation of Vuk Obradovic. Those offensive words, those expressions about mercenaries, divers, spies, traitors, and powders are directed to male members of the presidency. My dear colleagues from the presidency were being thrown at by hookers and prostitutes. He even focused on some kind of sexual relationship with one of the DOS leaders. As the cult of the untouchable and unmistakable leader rooted in these premises, my dear colleagues, I will remind you of two of the most characteristic statements of fans and followers of Vuk Obradovic, at the already mentioned session of the General Committee of Social Democracy. First quote: "I have four daughters. If all four of them told me that Vuk Obradovic assaulted them, I would trust him, not them. "The second quote: "I would give anything in the world if I was able to sit near Vuk Obradovic, so let him pull me all he wants." So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, some would offer sacrifices to his god Vuko Obradovic. In order that we all, all of my colleagues, would not become victims of one irresponsible individual's behavior, we must do everything in our practice, in our society, to work out the concept that I mentioned at the outset, which is the concept of determining each individual's personal responsibility, whatever function he was in. In the novel "The Fortress" Mesa Selimovic speaks in one place about human weaknesses, she also talks about vices such as gambling, women and power, and says that this last one is the most dangerous and the worst of the people. Vuk Obradovic was able to unite all three of these vices within himself. The cube, because it gambled with the trust of the citizens and the people that were shown to it in the past elections, as one of the DOS leaders. Women, in the worst possible sense, because he saw them as objects and things, just because he was their superior and thought he could do with them what he wanted and what came to his mind. The government is the third vice that Vuk Obradovic has served to cover up these first two. The government according to him, which is perfectly normal, allowed and allowed him to behave without consequence, for himself. The cabinet in the government of the Republic of Serbia seems to have served Vuka Obradovic as some kind of experimentation, proof of man's power in his position. We heard in the afternoon debate after twelve hours about some kind of love affair, about courting, a harmless sexual scandal or some sexy affair. We also heard one speaker mentioning a way of increasing birth through coercion. It's not about here, ladies and gentlemen, whether Vuk Obradovic was driving a car with one hand, and the other was doing something, as one predecessor said in the morning's debate. Vuk Obradovic was the ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, in the presence of the driver who was driving, physically maltered and harassed his closest associate, while tearing her socks off. From his office, which is confirmed by a member of security, she ran off with torn clothes one of his closest associates. So Vuk Obradovic physically harassed and abused the closest associates, in the government building of the Republic of Serbia. The DOS has timed its declaration: no one in Serbia can ever, nor will it be above the law, nor will it be outside the law. I hope that by voting for the resolution of Vuk Obradovic from the post of Deputy Prime Minister, we will prove to the citizens of Serbia and show that no one is untouchable. To all these facts, what is the response of Vuk Obradovic and his, present today in large numbers, defenders and proteges? That answer is contained in the fact that we, our closest associates, are 15 accused of having received some money from someone somewhere, that this conspiracy is ready for months, only to cover up some things or "success" that Vuk Obradovic has come to, leading already famous Commission for Abuses and Financial Machinations. I call on Vuk Obradovic, to come out for this pay phone, Vuk Obradovic, here is a unique opportunity for you to tell the entire Serbian public in a direct television broadcast, who is who and how much he paid for the alleged conspiracy against you. I suppose you owe it to your supporters, too. Some here even said that Vuko Obradovic was being threatened by the government, not to tell the alleged truth about the abuses he had encountered in the Commission, which he had recently led. I call you again, Wolfe Obradovic, come out for this pay phone and tell me if anyone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia threatened you, and who. If not, go out again and say you haven't been threatened. If someone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia has threatened you, I will propose to the MPs of the Serbian parliament and its resolution. Vuk Obradovic's behaviour and statements regarding the government's commission's work, whose president was up until a few days ago, say that he and the Commission and the results of the whole work have been seen primarily in the function of personal interest. Moreover, its use and abuse of the Commission in the last month shows that the fight against corruption and crime has been completely out of its interest. Instead, he put the Commission in the position of planting and carrying out various insinuations on individual persons. (President: Time. ) It is the lowest form of scheme. The personal morality that showed the previous 30 days discredits Vuk Obradovic for performing any public function. It is now clear that he saw the fight against corruption and crime primarily as his own interests and interests of his brother Pavic Obradovic. Never a more unworthy man had a more noble job, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People. The Commission has started a difficult job in achieving justice, so this is to remove mistakes concerning the president of guarantees for both Serbia and Serbia's citizens, ladies and gentlemen, that this commission will achieve the goal for which it has been formed. Its insinuations regarding the obstruction of the Commission's work also testify to the unscrupulousness and willingness to accuse others of being irresponsible and uninterested. The explanation is simple: he did not have time to interfere in his business, dealing with the interests of Vuk and Pavić Obradovic and the half-world surrounding him. Freed from this sea, both the Commission and the government can rest. A man of his word, as Vuk Obradovic often liked to refer to himself, moved to actions, and what, ladies and gentlemen. Untimely works. He's done something that's against all standards of moral behavior, let alone a high-ranking state official. In addition to being a disgrace to his family, he is also a disgrace to the new government of Serbia. We have to take this away from our cheeks, and Vuka Obradovic, I repeat, because of what he did to his associates in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, never one public function should be entrusted. I thank you, and I apologize for overstepping my time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8556	Right on the line, Mr. Slavkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8557	Mr. Omerovic, the party was inappropriately thrown by the presidency at a session of the main committee, which I chaired. Among other things, he said "poturica" was thrown. I declare before God and before you, and I look you all in the eyes, and to him in particular, that no one from the presidency has cast anything. What I experienced at that Bureau session was this: when Mr. Omerovic came out of the board meeting, he told me - don't curse me. I didn't say a word before. Does that look like the same provocation you did to Mr. Seselj, which is why he's off the hook? Once again, I tell you in person, for three years you've been a gray eminence in a party, for three years you've done what you wanted, for three years none of the Social Democrats in Serbia believed you. It's the Wolf Obradovic's fault that you're sitting there and need worse things to say to him. Most of all, the man talks about what he says. All of Serbia today recognized who you are, Mr Meso. I'm sorry that the Kragujevac candidate failed, thanks to Vuk Obradovic, and he's not in the Assembly today, and you're an MP here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8558	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Milojevic, and the next reported for discussion is MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8559	The President-in-Office, respected presidency, respected members of the government and respected dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, indeed a painful, long, difficult but necessary debate. I want to repeat something that has already been said and try to say something that has not been said, that is, to insist on it. For five weeks now, the fact is that a man who led the Social Democracy, who hopefully will be vice-president of the Republic of Serbia for a short time, has allowed his behaviour to be something that is at the level of scandal, grows into an affair that the public and not only the public, Serbia, are dealing with. We've come a long way in those five weeks and answered questions -- what is it really about? I've recognized in a number of jokes that have come public in this case, laughing at those jokes, the drive, the need to blow itself away, let the valve go, and that people practically do two things like that. The first is to comment on the event in this way, and the second is to face it and not to face real reasons. The fact that we are talking about this, about sexual abuse, sexual harassment of associates, in the Serbian Parliament, says that we have already taken a fantastic step at the beginning of the JJI century, a step towards true society, equality and democracy. We've been through five weeks one, you'll allow me, almost a funny path, well depicted in the Balkan spy. I recognized the great followers of Cvorović, you remember the wonderful text of Duško Kovacevic, those amazing stories and reports through the streams that the eagle fell: "Soko called Orla - Eagle has fallen." This is, unfortunately, about the format of a cverglan or a peanut, but who understands what. Could I be right, would I be right if I said that the conspiracy theory, which is being dealt with by estraced intelligence officers and the JUL-based security chiefs, depicted in Mark Nicovic, whom Mr Obradovic has taken as a legitimate lawyer, may I say that it is nothing more than the continuation of that terrible, famous, almost endemic Balkan paranoia. No conspiracy, no conspiracy. It's something that's fundamentally human right. It's morale. It is, unfortunately, political responsibility. The decisions we're going to make today are political decisions, but with fantastic, big, responsible, or whatever you want to call it, a reflection of what's called society. To translate, if I'm not clear, we'll make a political decision because we're responsible for society. Has it ever occurred to you to ask, especially you who are now the loudest, not what the facts are and what actually happened, that's what the court does. We don't deal with trial here, we don't deal with disclosure and fact-finding, we won't even do the same, because we want to continue, me above all, and my colleagues, to spare our friends, these ladies, bringing their names to the public and reminding the facts of everything they've been through. You'll be able to address the facts after the trial and you'll be able to see these facts as you wish. What I'm actually calling you for is actually what all this time, all these five weeks, the Serbian public is calling us for. I have heard several times today that speakers are calling for people, citizens of Serbia, saying and representing themselves as speakers on behalf of that people. I also speak for the citizens of Serbia and citizens. I have this mandate. I've been given that mandate several times over the past five weeks, and they say there is no adequately treated problem in criminal law, or this kind of guilt, or this kind of offence. I'm saying - right, and we'll do anything to affect the changes in criminal law. What's sexual harassment? What's abuse? What's abuse? It is said in modern, democratic societies and those who, through reforms or through transition, go to such a society, that sexual harassment is even verbal. I totally agree with that. Sexual abuse is something I don't want to see anyone, none of yours, facing, whether it's a woman, a daughter, a sister, a mother, but also a son. Have you ever considered the exposure of your male children to various kinds of harassment? Why are you acting, some of you, just in line with the notion that Serbia is a macho country. It is a macho country. But I don't mind that Serbia may see itself as a country of men. I must remind you, I must stress that the legitimate and statisticalally recognised majority in Serbia are women, but that does not mean that we have the right, as 52% of the population, to terrorise you. No, I don't. It means we're right, but we're also bound by a few things. First, to protect fundamental human rights. Secondly, we're serious about protecting women's rights. Thirdly, every time from the point of view of equality, therefore, gentlemen, we acknowledge your equality, we perform and ask that the subject of abuse, abuse is discussed here as a legitimate and equally important topic, as well as the subject of, we go to the farmers, and the subject of workers, and the subject of tobacco, as well as all those topics that you have apostrophyd as state and state-important subjects. I don't understand at all how it's possible that the subject - women's rights, the subject of the third, fifth or 12th grade. I can understand that if you tell me that for all of you, and for the citizens of Serbia, it means that a person who has abused their position and acted as a pashaluca from the position of power, who saw her associates as her property and abused her associates as her property, should be held accountable. In that case, I will agree that today we will stop talking about equality and start talking about what some part of you here calls much more important topics. The remarks I have heard or the questions asked by the Serbian and Serbian citizens, and that includes Belgrade, are - so what if it happened. How--so what? We started seven months ago in reform. Reforms do not exist if there is no reform of the basic social quality - morals, whether you want it or not. One is what we say publicly, you think, and the other is what we do secretly. It's not like that. It's all public. I think even some opposition counterparts have spoken of it in a certain way. I'm looking at the gentleman. But what's not said is why and who's talking about it publicly. Those who are brave. Those who are brave and dared to discuss the problems that are happening, and even in the reform, new, green, young, problematic, however you want the government of the Republic of Serbia, speak publicly. And it's where it's supposed to be, in Parliament. Because it is not the president of the party, any party, but rather the resolution of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Among the questions that have asked me one of the most interesting, and I hear that there is such a thing here, is - why these women who blamed Vuk Obradovic don't go public, they must have been guilty or colloktiously said "ma, they must have had something to do with him so he left them". What does that mean? Does this mean that again the situation is that victims of violence and perversion, because that is what gentlemen, about violence and perversion, must feel guilty. It's a famous, unfortunately, not only theory but also a practice about a victim who knows for who the hell knows what path he's going through with his guilt, survives his poor, unfortunate situation or problem. Don't take too long to call these things a real name - violence. And violence is taught everywhere. What are we going to leave, me to my child, and you to your children, if we don't raise them in the right way? Are we going to tell them it's justified because it comes from a man who's in power? Are we going to tell them there's room for violence because it comes from someone who's a high-ranking official? Are we going to tell them that something that, slightly, I'm going to say, is falsely, socially justified because it doesn't need to be spoken of in public? We won't. And, let me remind you -- the last question is "whatever you want, this is Serbia", and I'm probably offered a suggestion that there are men in Serbia that I respect, who want to meet some of their wishes and needs. I remind you, this is Serbia Isidor Sekulic, Desanka Maksimovic, Biljana Wilimon, Natasha Milojevic, Jelena Milenkovic, Olga Kircanski, and many others, this is Serbia and those women, who show courage to face something that should be faced by the whole society and the elections. And another thing, Serbia is also a female. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8560	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8561	The Honorable Presidency, respected colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have heard from several MPs of a political party, "sexual democracy", how well they speak about their president, about one of the DOS leaders, about the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, about the President of the Commission for Abuse. I have one conclusion that Serbian citizens can conclude the same thing, to see what DOS is, what kind of leaders within the DOS, and what kind of MPs make up that political group called DOS. Today, for this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as a priority, as the biggest problem, we received a proposal from Mr Djindjic for the replacement of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vuk Obradovic. What surprised me very much is that it is a very short and nothing documented explanation from the president, Mr Djindjic, as well as an unargumented defence, that all this talk about Mr Vuk Obradovic is not justified. We are witnessing a major media coup, which has been against Mr. Vuk Obradovic over the past few months, and I can conclude that it is, not because he is the president of the Social Democracy, because as far as I can see, he has long been removed and is no longer the president of Social Democracy, not because he is vice-president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because he probably does not perform that function, but because he was president of the Commission for Abuse in financial transactions. He was likely, in the commission's work, upon what he was not allowed to come across, which is that the DOS summit is the most criminalised in this state of Serbia. This is the government of the affair, the government of crime, the government of scandals, or rather, Djindjic-malboro, Vladan-Galenika, Dusan-Lutra, or it would be better suited to "Dushan-Colder", fighting crime. Their nicknames, which I gave up, tell me what kind of people they are. We've heard more of these MPs about some fake stamps, fake dollars for Wolf Obradovic's shift. That sentence is -- where the general is, there's no democracy, or -- generals can't choose the president anymore, and so on. In fact, what they're saying -- they're saying exactly what they were doing and talking about, saying when this government was built up, that where the generals are, there's no democracy. But that doesn't mean that this former general of ours needs this kind of media hack and this kind of campaign, that some morale, because of some unproven sexual scandals, should be exposed to what he's exposed to today, especially from his own members, from his political party. But what concerns me most is that Mr. Prime Minister does not respect the decisions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I came out here primarily as a Serb from Kosovo, as an MP from Kosovo and Metohija, to remind Mr Djindjic that we have brought a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija against the introduction of customs checkpoints.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8562	Mr. Kragovic, it really has nothing to do with this, I warn you, please, go back to the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8563	I'm talking about Mr. Djindjic, and Mr. Vuk Obradovic, please, and don't warn me. Here before me a few messengers spoke of all things and all things, and time went by, and you warned none of them. So when an SRS MP comes out, he has to be directed. You can't direct us. We'll talk about what we want. And to remind you, we've brought resolution. The resolution was passed on the government's proposal, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that is evidence. The resolution came after weeks of roadblocks in northern Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8564	Mr. Kragovic, I warned you, I warn you twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8565	You can do as much as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8566	Then I take your word for it, for insolence and insolence. Please leave the pay phone. There is a word from MP Veroljub Arsic. (Employer Alexander Vukic asks for a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8567	In accordance with Article 99. There's no need for you, Minister, to be defended so much and to say whether I have the right to speak or not. What you're doing now has already been seen and you've already repeated several times. I've warned you many times not to do that. He warned, not because of the power of the parliamentary minority, or one opposition party, but because of the way you behave. Namely, MP Marko Jaksic, MP of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and my witnesses are all MPs in parliament, has not mentioned Vuk Obradovic in any word, nor what is on the agenda. He didn't get any warning. He didn't even mention what was on the agenda. Mr Kragovic received his first warning in the first sentence, and after three sentences, his word was taken away, with your finding that it was insolence and insolence. And you're going to say, and here, the entire assembly, let any DOS majority come out and say I'm wrong about what I said, let them say that Marko Jaksic mentioned anything else and that he was talking about anything else. But there's no warning at all. And Ljubomir Kragovic, who lives in Kosovo and Metohija, when he wanted to say three sentences about Kosovo and Metohija, can't speak, his word is taken away, and he's also rude and bold because he dared your Majesty to stand up and say he won't listen to the end of your order and he'll want to say something you won't say. Different treatment, different arches, you can have it, and Serbia can see it, all of Serbia and everyone in this assembly, but you have no right to insult the MPs, to call them rude and arrogant, because you are neither father nor mother to any of the MPs. They came to the National Assembly as educated and as educated as they had gotten at home and at school, and you were neither a professor nor a parent, and don't take it yourself, because you are worse, I would tell you, but I will not be more polite and brazen than anyone else, but it's not right for me to tell you, and that's why I call you not to say such things in the future and not to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8568	The insolence and insolence, for which it was taken away, referred to the fact that it was possible for the chairman (it was not for me, but for the chairman) to say whatever he wanted, and that he, as an MP of the SRS, was not interested and it is not for that matter, and he will say whatever he wanted. And I repeat, it is impertinence and insolence and an unworthy messenger of the people. And as for that, if I weren't a father, or a mother, I really thank God that I wasn't some people's messengers, or a father, or a mother, because I'd be really ashamed. Should the National Assembly be declared? No, you don't. He has the word Mr. Batic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8569	In his book "Times of Miracles", late Borislav Pekic said that Serbia is the wonder country in which power reigns and the mind works. Some political parties who have lost 3/4 of their constituents or 3/4 of their parliamentary mandates to advocate such a policy continue to do so. Serbia is indeed a country of wonders, where criminals are the most common anti-crime fighters, where the most unnecessarily unnecessarily teach moral lessons for days, where the most irresponsible talk of responsibility, where the most uncommon months speak of honor, where the most unfair constantly mentions honesty, where the stupidest are called to mind, where the most unrequited constantly lamentate about education. The most tragic thing is that such people found themselves, of course, on the side of Vuk Obradovic. There is no need, I personally think, by respecting Vuk Obradovic, that anyone defends him, especially in one such way, which has no purpose or purpose. Especially not those who have inflicted the greatest shame or are accomplices in the greatest national shame, defeats, humiliations, which have caused Serbia to suffer the most unprecedented disgrace, the misery, the despair, the humiliation, those responsible for hundreds of thousands of tragic fates, those who have destroyed hopes, expectations, the desires of many generations, those who today are not ashamed of the tragic event in connection with the colder case, because they are responsible for both treason and shame, and for these tragic deaths, throughout the former Yugoslavia and above all Serbia, and for the colder, and for Slavko Curuvija, because they were at the top of power and regardless of subjective responsibility, are objectively responsible. So they find it appropriate to hold some kind of sermon. It's like a man to me, regardless of political function and party membership, I'm sorry about what happened in Social Democracy, and people with both, to say the least, divided sides. I also had extremely correct relations with Vuk Obradovic, especially at that time of aggression and NATO intervention and we built one relationship of mutual respect and trust, and with the people of the presidency, with whom I have been under the Alliance for Change, and as the Coordinator of the Alliance for Change, for a year, built a real relationship of great mutual respect and trust because we have been through the most difficult temptation, through the cordon, through blackmail, through insults, through everything that has passed time. So, I'm sorry that all this happened and I'm really sorry that Mr. Obradovic allowed himself, if it's correctly interpreted in, I guess this is "Glas", from Saturday or Sunday, to wonder if the Ministry of Justice will be willing to do legal leprosy and political laziness and there is no minister who will take away Social Democracy from us, etc. I have no intention of taking anything away from anyone, and I didn't read a single letter from a college of the Justice Department from a huge correspondence and case regarding Social Democracy. The Justice Ministry College agreed that my deputy, Mr. Djurdje Ninkovic, would normally be a member of the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8570	Third call, Mr. Seselj, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8571	Gentlemen of the People, I must be here publicly in front of everyone to admit that I have agreed twice in my life with Vladan Batic. Then, when he fascinated me with the hatred of the Croats from this pay phone and today when he said that in this Serbia the greatest criminals are leading the fight against crime, the most uncommon people are constantly trumpeting about honor, the most dishonest swearing to honesty, etc. And we can look at DOS press, and all the presses are in Belgrade today, the daily press, DOS, and we can see for ourselves. There's no doubt about it, and I'm really fascinated. However, the result of such recognition should be the government's collective resignation. You are harassing all of Serbia today, not just Parliament, but all of Serbia's citizens -- who expect economic and social problems to be solved and poor, cannot wait, because the situation is getting worse -- by guessing whether Vuk Obradovic had a sexual affair or not. From this pay phone, we're listening to a lady, a MP, and she says, "Unfortunately, it's not sanctioned by law." She notes that she must admit that Vuk Obradovic did not commit a crime. It was so benign and banal that it was attributed to him, I'm going to go into whether or not it was something, I have no intention of holding any candle. You're distracting Serbia. Instead of discussing here how it was possible for a citizen of the SRJ to be forced to deliver himself to The Hague tribunal, and even if a gang of criminals made him confess to the airport with such a trembling voice, almost through crying, that he was actually going voluntarily. How was it possible to deliver to The Hague a Stakic, who did not...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8572	But we don't discuss it, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8573	Please, we are discussing Vuk Obradovic and the proposal to change...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8574	Well, then get back to it. I remind you that you have two warnings.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8575	Wait, you want to kick me out now, you want a scandal, what do you want, tell me nice? We are discussing Vuk Obradovic, instead of discussing how the Serb could have been delivered by force to The Hague tribunal. Simic, Stakic, one citizen, and the other is not a citizen. You did not in any word warn Cedomir Jovanovic here when he was talking about the freezers. You are tasked with inventing freezers, inventing corpses, if you need to steal bodies from the cemetery, to prove that Serbia is a criminal country, that Serbs are guilty of NATO aggression, that Serbs are responsible for the bombing. That's the essence of your authority. If you had found a single corpse, you would have shown it immediately on TV and carried it to the studio yourself, because you are one, and you haven't found one yet. You wait for the bodies to be collected, who knows whose, and who knows where they come from. Maybe you'll get some alien to show him off as a Serb crime. That's the essence of your authority. You don't care if thousands of Serbs died under the NATO Pact bombs, you're interested in whether it was a sexual affair or not, whether someone was offering someone love, and that's why you're going to political liquidation. What's that? Does that make sense, does it have morals? Logic has it, it consists of serving some external forces that give you the task of what to do. Moral must be gone. Every day I go to Batajnica and back, and, you know, there was no breath when we rescheduled the dump until DOS took over. And now that I feel in Batajnica, feeling citizens all over Serbia, they sense that something smells at the top of the government and that haletovic finding as fate has been imposed on all of Serbia. You work systematically against the people for the sake of Serb enemies. And what you're doing with Vuko Obradovic is part of all other activities. It doesn't make any difference. You're here to demonstrate that you're not interested in laws, and it's not a crime that's prescribed, you want it to be prescribed, and you'd be punishing a man in advance. Same as The Hague tribunal. The law needs to be changed, and the Constitution needs to be amended, so that Serbs can be delivered to The Hague tribunal, but your ministers say if the Constitution changes, it changes, and if it doesn't change, we will without the Constitution. If the law is passed, passed, and the law is not passed, we will deliver without law. And this thing with Vuk Obradovic and this other one with the Hague tribunal law shows what your understanding of constitutionality and legality is. The law is only for you if it is useful and usable for political purposes, for the realisation of political goals. If he's not useful, then you don't need the law. If you can pass the law you can, and if you can't, then you'll put nylon socks on your head and do your will without the law. No one has ever responded that Dusan Mihajlovic and Vladan Batic, under the auspices of Zoran Djindjic, tried to kidnap Milosevic with nylon socks on their heads, no one and that Milosevic is still in prison without any guilt. He's got a lot of guilt, but you're not able to prove it to him, and that's the problem, because you're carrying out a warrant and you had a warrant until March 31st to arrest him, and now you have a warrant by the end of June to deliver him to The Hague and that's the point. Here, Djindjic doesn't like it. He just ran away when I was showing photos of his villa from Banovac. I expect you to write me that villa now, nothing else, or I'll sue you. You know that now Vladan Batic rules the courts. It won't be long, the courts will be free and the villa must belong to me. It's in the Banovci, it's not in the Daedina, don't worry about you who have other ambitions. Now, in such a situation, you have seduced Serbia, raised taxes to the sky, made the citizens sick, fed up with workers, kidnapped yourself about the privatisation of factories, announced hundreds of thousands of unemployed, etc. You act like you've been assigned until Friday or Monday to kidnap everything, ruin everything and then run, but there aren't enough planes for everyone. Will you all be able to stop in the JATs? Take care of it. When we were in power, an APB was called after Stanko Subotic, and when you came to power, you immediately suspended the warrant for the murder of Baja and for the murder of many others, but we had no press conference until we were sure that he and that killer killed it and that, and now you can charge in advance. (Dragisa Marinkovic, from the site: You found none. Easy, they're found. Arkan's killers, for example, have been found. Just make fun of it. You here by order of the Western forces prove that Serbia is a criminal country, that Serbs as a people and states committed terrible war crimes. You are delivering Milosevic to the Serbian state to be tried to pay war damages. That's your job. You liquidated in the desert debate all of our interests, all of our options, you gave up the gold of the Kingdom of Serbia, you don't care, just as soon as possible. One hundred million dollars to take right away for you is better than 700, 800 a little later, after a persistent debate, after a persistent and unsettling strain with our enemies, with those who would take us even black under our fingernails. You make empty promises. You promised 32 pfenigs to pay for the wheat, so now you say 7.50 dinars and you've already reduced by 7 pfenig, and even when the harvest is over, you're preparing and devaluation, so the peasants will have 7.50 dinars after that devaluation in July to be about 15 pfenig. That's the essence of your authority. If we thought of all the taxes you've introduced, it seems to me that the people would lynch us. We shouldn't think about it, and you can do anything. One interior minister can do what he wants, Cedomir Jovanovic can have a crowd around him with police IDs and make a gift of mar on the roads. Such wills have not been in Serbia since the time of King Milan and Tito made sure that he did not behave the way you acted. He pretended to have some courts, that he had laws, that he had regulations, that he had these, that he had those, that you had no more acting. You've made your position all the way naked. You don't look back at where the main principles are...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8576	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8577	I'm done. Today you think you're judging Vuka Obradovica and replacing him. No, gentlemen, the Ottomans, today Serbia is judging you and you will understand that very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8578	Mr. Seselj mentioned that I said, I guess from this pay phone or I don't know where to say the incredible hatred of Croatia and the Croatian people. There are no such words, of course, as are all so far fraud, deception, untruth, lies, bribery. I've never said a single ugly word in a different context. At one previous session, I mentioned only that Mr. Seselj is busy with election activities in Croatia, where members of his closest family are engaged, all Seselj hrvats and nothing is ugly about it. I understand that Mr. Seselj is difficult to operate in the diaspora. It's a big problem, especially since he lost power in this municipality as Tudjman's major for Zemun.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8579	According to the Rules of Procedure, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8580	Article 99 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. The speaker who spoke before me, recognizable to the citizens of Serbia by everything and everything, told all MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, at the same session he is now talking about, that we belong in the Croatian Parliament to discuss, rather than to discuss in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8581	You called in the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8582	You might not go over the board, Mr. President. You enjoyed talking about everything and everything and it didn't occur to you to warn him, but as soon as I got out, it occurred to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8583	Because in the most insolent way, you abuse the right to report to the Rules of Procedure, and you have no right to speak. For the second time I warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8584	Because, President, you should have warned Vladan Batic, so you should have told him, Vladan Batic, you lied when you said you didn't speak offensively of the Croats, you did.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8585	Mr. Nikolic, I take your word. (Tomislav Nikolic: You are so beautiful, beautiful, you are sweet. Sweet, sweet, kiss me. Mr. Seselj, although I had good reasons after two warnings, I did not take my word for it. How much rhetorical skill he got away with and made it possible for me to, with a little tolerance and too much tolerance, get that 10 minutes to the end, but the way you abuse a pay phone, reporting to the Rules of Procedure, to conduct a dialogue with the MPs, does not suffer any tolerance. Here's to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8586	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure for Rule 28, and he's attached to Articles 98 and 99. Tendeciful, malicious, deluded, in its recognizable style, in the most impertinent way possible, the President of the National Assembly, Mr Dragan Marsican, conducts an unprecedented repression against the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and that is because the president of the National Assembly, whether synchronised or self-initiatively wants to discuss this point of the agenda in a completely different, harmless direction, and the crucial thing that is being said here today...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8587	Mrs. Jovanovic, malicious or not malicious, I must interrupt you, hello, hello, hello, Mrs. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8588	Mr. Martian, don't work at the phone station. I don't know if you can work at the telephone station, but I'm telling you, you've broken Article 28 multiple times, in a way that doesn't look like the president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8589	I'm warning you for the second time. Did you hear me?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8590	I hear you. You just tried to run for work at the telephone station. What's this all about? (President: You have reached out to the Rules of Procedure. I would like to explain to you how you have hurt the Rules of Procedure most insolently, insulting the MPs of the SRS. You said you couldn't question anyone. (President: That was a few days ago. ) Mr. Marsicanin, as I am proud of what family I am from, what spirit I was raised in, are so proud and all of the Serbian radicals are the way our party president leads our party, that we have been 10 years, contrary to you from the DOS coalition, which you have shamed the Serbian people, have been selling for a handful of dollars, and today all your ministers here do, and the previous minister in his presentation, and the prime minister, and all the MPs from so-called. The democratic opposition to Serbia. Therefore, you need to drag yourself into a mouse hole, to use the right of the first among the equals only in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to behave in such a way as not to insult us who defend our honor and dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8591	You're not mad at me when Mr. Seselj is looking forward to all this. Am I cute to you too? I didn't. The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word. After him, the Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8592	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I can see that your ministers are just coming and staying here for a few minutes to insult and escape, instead of waiting for a review of their presentation in this National Assembly. According to your presentation, in the motion for Mr. Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Vuk Obradovic's replacement, you cited reasons that are at least ridiculous. The reason for his shift is allegedly an affair and it's sexual in Social Democracy, which is fueled by certain media. For anyone who's a little more serious about politics, he's always asking himself why something like this is, and he's asking for a serious answer -- that's why. In my view, the right to do so is the real reason for Vuk Obradovic's replacement because he has been ordered to investigate all those irregularities in financial and goods transactions under privileged conditions, and in the past 10 to 12 years. Mr. Obradovic, I think, has made a very strong contribution to this job. In doing so, the only criterion he managed was - who he was guilty of, regardless of whether they were members of the current government or the former regime. To be clear, it was not because Mr. Vuk Obradovic is a high moral and honest man. That's hard to say for a man who supported NATO to bomb his people. That's hard to say for a man who supported NATO bombing an army whose uniform he was wearing, even if it was him. But for him, he can't possibly say he's a stupid man. Former generals, even ex-generals, like to plan and develop certain strategies, so Vuk Obradovic's strategy was the following: he kept asking himself what, as a small party within the DOS, when DOS falls apart? The easiest thing for him was in his political struggle to adhere to the letters of the law and the work of the commission, which he heads, eliminates all his former and current allies from the political scene. Besides, I'm very personal and I don't care who's supposed to fit that extra profit bill, and I personally, and the SRS, but I'm interested in the clean order, who's it all about? There's a ridiculous claim that this affair was initiated by the media. No, but it was launched by the government, with media controlled by certain DOS political factors, and those factors that should be affected by the report by Vuk Obradovic, his commission, and thus by the extra profit tax, and when it comes to criminal responsibility. Those in this government, for God's sake, there's a lot of them. So far, a number of times has been mentioned "Lutra", which is owned by the former Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, who supported Slobodan Milosevic and today's interior minister. No one can tell me that Lutra was a stock company at the time, because as far as I know, between 1993 and 1997, stock companies didn't exist. It was regulated by law before the end of 1997 and in early 1998, so it's not possible. That it may not be about the loans Mr. Mihajlovic has raised as vice-president of the government of the Republic of Serbia, loans that may not have been returned to this day, and even if they were returned, have been refunded. "Gallenika" and Mr. Vladan Galenika, who escapes cowardly, could also be the reason, because they would be covered by Vuk Obradovic's report, as Batic had the most influence on the government of the Republic of Serbia to issue a statement that "Gallenika", although the government has issued a statement, but literally kidnapped by Mr. Batic and Mr. Panic. Not to mention what Mr. Panic was doing at the time of hyperinflation, when he first came to Galenika. Not to mention the drugs, which were owned by Galenika and which were protected by patents, sold both abroad as finished products and technology and protected patents and thus damaged Galenika, and Serbia and the SRJ for millions of dollars he put in his pocket. For such things, a tax on extra profit can be charged. That it may not be, Mr. Prime Minister, that it is also the "Strength Product" and your best man, Mr. Dusan Markovic, who publicly boasts that he earned $100 million in the time of Slobodan Milosevic's regime. Mr. Arsic, please return to the topic. ) It is precisely the subject and work of Mr. Vice-President of the Government, because it is being talked about and its point on the agenda. So he made about $100 million and that, he says, fair enough. That he said two, three, and five, that a man believed him. But 100, very difficult. Now he's going after Serbia and he's renting companies. He even leased them so much he's got to brag about himself again that he can't drive all the cars around, but they're making him helipads to do it on a helicopter. Mr. Prime Minister, that's not even Marco Milosevic was allowed to do. In particular, he shouldn't have done that in Pogorevec, and that's what you do in the livestock center, which your godfather rented, but we'll do it at some other time. This affair was initiated by the government for two reasons. The first is that the government removes the only danger for co-workers who have wronged the law in the present or past tense. The second is to entertain people with these kinds of affairs, because you are unable to fulfill your pre-election promises. One such sexual affair, a similar affair, has provoked one bombing on the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia. Now Monica Levinski's syndrome is here on stage to finish what NATO started in 1999. But you all need to be clear that the people don't know how to run politics. Politics is run by politicians. The people have the right to choose and make mistakes. When he realizes how wrong he is with this government, you'll be lucky to be replaced as the SPS and JUL regime. If you do not happen to be replaced in this way, you will envy Slobodan Milosevic on his cell wherever she is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8593	According to the Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk ambassador, Stevan G. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8594	Rule 99 says the MPs speak with respect to each other, and we've been talking all day about sexual harassment or whatever it is they say. Then we get to offer the male to kiss him, and then it'll turn out that we'll discuss the president of the assembly who made a public offer here to kiss him, and then it's even worse than a man and a woman.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8595	The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic has the word, and after him, the Messenger Lazar Marjanski is declared to be a party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8596	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Assembly has been denied the answers to many of the questions and many of the dilemmas that have been raised and related to this first item of the agenda. First, the question arises what motivated Vuk Obradovic, in addition to warning the president and members of the government to dispose of the evidence, arguments, to give up his resignation, which was claimed to have already been prepared and to wait for such a debate, in which he is most likely, both as a man and as a member of the government, and as a political figure, he was aware of what sort of things will be discussed from this pay phone. About things that are, in any case, pleasant, but mostly uncomfortable, that he's like a man listening to it. A second question we have not given an answer to -- what prompted the government's nervousness or prime minister of Serbia to hurry up with such an initiative or rather, with a proposal for this initiative to enter the agenda. The public has been informed that a court case has been initiated. This is where we heard the D.A. was involved. Wasn't it logical and normal, since five weeks of this affair rocked or rocked the public of Serbia, to wait for another time after the court's decision that the prime minister of the government would make a decision that would be in line with the court. In this way, by showing anxiety, there is always a possibility, if nothing else to bear on the conscience of a man. What is clear is that this government and most in parliament want to create another spectacle in a row. Whether it's political, whether it's media or, like in this case, sexual, it doesn't matter. The goal is to distract the public of Serbia, to draw the public's attention to the other side, to discuss Serbia as it does in the cabinet, what is done on the beds of individual members of the government. Do you gentlemen seriously think that we here, in this House, are going to fall for your pranks, you're going to drive us around the cabinets, you're going to roll us around on cabinet tables, and what's worse, you think Serbia is going to believe that Serbia over the table. Not to get Serbia across the table, remember that. Some say it's past court time. Here's proof that they're wrong: we have a court plot. This is nothing but the level of the lowest court plot. The court always has a king, here's the queen gone, though not pretty, what to do. We can change roles. He's got court ladies. All we know is that the role of Vuk Obradovic in this case is at court, that he is making a plot around him, and he is the subject of this scheme. We don't know the role of Cedomir Jovanovic. We don't know what Mekin's role is. Come on, Chada can be happy, but there are also those in court who are not in natural marriages. That's why he was getting away with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8597	Mr. Mircic, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8598	The subject was the same when the D.O.A. MP said there were courtside freaks. I just want to make it clear to Serbia and the public who has that role now. Gentlemen, you're forgetting one fact. No matter how much time is lost today by discussing this point or on this topic, there are obstacles, there are burning problems in Serbia. Why, gentlemen, today, when you are so morally clean, when you enter, as you claim in the debate and this kind of debate with something that is a sincere desire to conquer democracy, why the representatives of the government didn't go to the meeting of taxi drivers who strike at the mouth, so you can explain to them that this is a priority, that this is EU entry. I sincerely admire how the chairman has so far let me talk this way about this agenda point, because I thought at first I'd say that I'd share my discussion of that sexual act that interests you most, later, after the session. One thing is clear, you've had an affair just like this. You had in the Social Democratic Union. The premises of the party were broken, where a homosexual meeting was held. Same affair. Even the MPs sitting here were involved. It's worse, it's against nature, it's against all the rules. Why didn't you say then, the president of that party is the same official in the government, why didn't you put it on the agenda? No, you didn't. If you wanted to, you shouldn't have, because you made it clear that by joining the EU, you would have legalized marriages between homosexuals. Imagine you start such topics, to put, say, Zarko Korać on the agenda, as you put Vuk Obradovic on the agenda. What would these people tell you from this advanced Western civilized Europe? You'd all be relieved. Gentlemen, you're playing, you've got double arches. You have double criteria. You can't judge in such a way that, based on the decision of most people, you might put such problems on someone for life, so if nothing else, I hope, most of this is a bit of a conscience. The only thing that could have happened worse, if you'd set up in this case for the Deputy Prime Minister, is to say he'd been riding and chasing men. I wouldn't let that go my whole life. One of the vice presidents would be eager to hear you say that, but Vuk Obradovic at least doesn't look that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8599	The People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski has the word, and after him, the Messenger of the people Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8600	Gentlemen People's MPs, Mr. President, when this government was formed, I told this speaker that the best students of Kumrovec were sitting on your left. One of them is Vuk Obradovic. Others will also show: Covic, Mihajlovic, Perisic. They have a common line, and Tito loved women, and so did your vice presidents. The truth is one thing, it's a disgrace to DOS. You'll probably make that clear. You got mixed up in government politics, alcohol, hate, sex, drugs, everything got mixed up. That's what you need to explain to the people and figure it out. Whether Vuk Obradovic is a sex maniac or not, that's his business. That's what doctors need to determine. If he's a sex maniac, he can go to jail. I don't care about that at all. What I'm interested in is that the economy doesn't stand. Don't think the conditions are good for agriculture. It's safe that until it's cut, we don't know what it is. There's no investment. (Glass - orphan. And the orphan was good. Basically, the government does nothing on production, economy and agriculture. Not on investment. That's the point. And whether Mr. Vuk Obradovic and the others will have some affairs - that's not the problem. If Vuk Obradovic falls, your government will fall tomorrow (repeats the prime minister). Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8601	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8602	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the topic we're talking about here today is seemingly harmless. Apparently, it's just a DOS coalition problem. However, this topic exceeds the borders of the DOS coalition, as it has a significant impact on political life and on the overall situation in Serbia. It is important because this topic and this moment threaten both the life and the existence of all Serbian citizens. The question arises - what is the motive for putting such a topic on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament at this point. I have to assume, and that makes sense, not only to me but also to other citizens of Serbia, that this government has one such topic in the Serbian Parliament wants to cloud things a little bit, to throw dust in the eyes of Serbian citizens, to distract citizens from life's problems. In fact, with such a theme, the government is trying to draw the attention of Serbian citizens to other issues than those that are existential. To distract Serbian citizens from the effects of their months-long rule. And the effects of this government's months-long rule are devastating. I'll list a few things that are so obvious that they don't need to be repeated often. All Serbian citizens feel the effects of the DOS government's rule. Serbia's economy is collapsed. From month to month, according to DOS official authorities, production is getting smaller and smaller. Since June 1st, we've moved on to a profit calculation by the gross system and the first effects are also devastating. Education received a month-long advance that was reduced compared to the previous one. At the administrative border between Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia, customs checkpoints were reintroduced. We have just heard here today from DOS MPs that all this has been done with the blessing of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Domestic and foreign presses are flooded with various criminal affairs, in which the main actors are the leading people of this government in the Republic of Serbia. There are many more devastating effects of DOS authorities in the past few months. Instead of discussing all these problems today, we are talking about an affair that took place in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Whether we want to or not, we're putting ourselves in play today, or we're being put in a role, judge, to make judgments. We make judgments here by voting yes or no, and however we vote we're judges. We're making judgments, and we don't know if there was any investigation or what that investigation showed. I'll list a few things that are controversial in this whole procedure and affair. First of all, it's a symptomatic moment in which all this happened. How come at this very moment, when Vuk Obradovic was supposed to go public with documentation and evidence of the crime he investigated and investigated? What's the point of having an affair like this happen and stopping it all? It's a slow moment, not just for us who are the opposition to this government. In talks with Serbian citizens, I noticed that even those most fiery DOS supporters are all suspicious. And they're suspiciously spinning their heads and they're wondering where this is coming from right now. It's also a symptom of the speed DOS responded to. Namely, the DOS presidency, not waiting and not making any investigation, without seeking the accuracy of all the allegations we heard in the previous days, has made a decision to automatically remove Mr. Vuk Obradovic from the post of Deputy Prime Minister. A moral government would resign because of an affair like this. The moral government would not allow such an affair to lead to congregation discussions. She would resign herself, or all the members of the government and the prime minister. But these governments have this basic problem, which is morality. In recent days, when we discussed the resolution of Minister Batic, we have just seen the morals. Mr Batic received the support of only one-third of this parliament, and if he had had had had been moral, he would have resigned himself. He would no longer appear in this congregation. However, morality is far from Mr Batic, and apparently from this government. It is also disputed and inadmissible that the Administrative Board of this assembly will not make any decision on the status of Social Democracy MPs in this assembly for more than a month. There are two groups here, which is obvious. They shut each other out of the party, and both groups sit here and participate in the debate. For more than a month, there has been a certain request to the committee of this congregation that has had to react and make a decision, any decision, and that only after that decision do we debate here on this matter. It is inadmissible, and above all it is a problem and a mistake of Mr. President of this assembly, which this committee has not finished its work and that we have not had one more quality debate, with some facts, some solutions of the board, and with a much clearer situation than the one in which we are in relation to which the MPs here have the right to speak, which they do not have, or which are no longer Members. I would like to point out one more thing, which is the government's initiative to be revolutionary, new, original, with which this government came out immediately of its choice, which is an initiative for all members of the government to undergo a full medical examination. So, right after the government's choice. The public is familiar with this initiative. The public long awaited the results of these medical examinations, eagerly expected them, to see who would do it and what kind of people would lead this country. Of those results, nothing to anyone. No one in this assembly, nor in this Serbia, has learned the results of the medical examinations of members of our government. After a few months, we're having an affair. After a few months, a member of the government is obviously ill, because he started acting differently, much different from what normal behavior is. I ask the question -- what is this government, what are the results of these medical examinations, and why they are not here, in front of the Assembly, or in public, to know, (who knows what is ahead for us, who knows what are the results and other members of the government), what are the attitudes and what we can experience in the coming days, means, in the near future. And in the end, I'm just going to get out of the topic, last night I was looking at another journal and, believe it or not, in another journal it was introduced, maybe not since last night, I didn't follow up on a section called "The Chronicle of Our Crimes."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8603	The word is made by MP Branko Gligorić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8604	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, MPs, it is little to say that I feel uncomfortable as a founder and member of Social Democracy, which, along with my party friends, failed to spare all of you, including the citizens of Serbia, the scandal, which was produced by Vuk Obradovic, a former member and former leader of the party, the Deputy Prime Minister, whose responsibility we are talking about today. Why didn't we manage to solve the problem internally in the party if it was ever just a party matter? The answer is only one - Vuk Obradovic did not allow it. After we showed him that we knew the truth about his uncontrolled and perverse behaviour towards our colleagues, and not only ours, we sought his discreet withdrawal from the post of party president. He's the one who took it. The next day, however, he denied it and threatened to create an atmosphere of lynches and showed his new, or his true face. Over 36 hours, it has only passed since the arrival of the first ordered telegrams of support, with a request to disfellowship all those who have dared to request their president's resignation. It also did not help the party's willingness to resign along with it, and refused to form a party survey committee, which would establish the full truth. Instead, convinced that the attack is the best defence, he went public first, naively believing that he would deceive the party's membership, coalition partners from DOS and Serbian citizens. Instead of a patient search for compromise and legalism, Vuk Obradovic has been defined as political exhibitionism, scandalous and voluntary opening of the cliffs, this time in front of the entire public. For his hasty and indecipherable actions, social democracy, its members and leadership refuse to bear any responsibility. On the contrary, fully aware of all the risks, we have stood up against haughtiness and self-will, hypocrisy which, should be recognised, has flooded Serbia. We have stood up against Balkan primitive Serbia, Serbia tired of leaders, who are sinking colders, pulling out rusty spoons, or sex organs, anyway. Gentlemen, this is, as Mr. Obradovic has been saying over and over again in recent days, a political matter couple of excellencies. It's about morality, and it's about morality in politics. It's about political morality, it's about power, powers, the code of conduct of public figures. It's about those who rise above the people and above God, as someone here said today. A politician needs to be clean. The politicians who sink the freezers must go to prison, outside Yugoslavia, if possible. The rusty spoons are the place in the dump of history. Politicians living in marriage and three years, as our people say, are not good hosts, they are not moral. They have to stay out of politics. Those politicians who can't control their own urges, and their genitals violently show our co-workers, their sisters, their mothers, their daughters, and their wives, must go to treatment, or somewhere else. It doesn't matter if these women are politicians, journalists, Dactilographers, or coffee cooks. It does not matter whether they have been clashed past their will in an official car, party rooms, at work, in the government office of Serbia, or elsewhere. They are not cattle and no one should humiliate them, they do not deserve it, despite living in such a crazy Balkan Serbia. They don't deserve it, despite the fact that our criminal laws don't protect them. They don't deserve it, even if it's done by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vuk Obradovic. Dear fellow MPs, what follows after Vuk Obradovic realized in just 36 hours that he was being set up against him, he said, a homeless and long-planned heifer. It excludes the opposition to the Statute from the parties 15 to 22 members of the Bureau. He's the chairman of the statute committee and the supervisory board. Eight out of nine republican MPs, two out of three federal MPs (third is him), all six council members in the Belgrade Assembly. He disbands all committees in Serbia, which did not send him a telegram of support. Brother Pavic Obradovic, the prominent pre-war and post-war merchant and cement, and the doctor of the crisis headquarters, has appointed him president of the party's executive board. It introduces special war units, a precise charsian detective, an expert on police and consensual issues, and a prominent escrow lawyer, behind whom the financial lobby stands and whom many tie to the Obradovic brothers. Conspiracy theory is being built, and soon everything becomes clear. It is reportedly a White World First Order plot, a mounted process against Obradovic, behind whom DOS parts, people from the underground, are said to be powerful financial lobbys. In the tables of his former associates, there are some kind of activated and unactivated wiretaps, bomb shock and pornographic photographs, and I'm guessing that there are some kind of nuclear warheads on the pier and discovery. A book on black magic has been found and revealed that some of the conspirators, believe it or not, are engaged in return. Serbia's prime minister is accused of some kind of Reichstag of Social Democracy, and the president of Yugoslavia, Obradovic, expects support, as both people are said to be without a stain in their careers. And not only that, he's relying on the MUP, because as his authorised lawyer declares, no one in the MUP will follow the current management structure. I wonder -- which one does he want? Is there a previous one, perhaps? And the president of this assembly will, in all likelihood, have to explain sooner or later where the depositary sent to this high house, which the Russian goats vigorously support General Obradovic. In the morning, the co-workers and founders of Social Democracy became vultures, bastards, vermin, and for the destruction of Vuk Obradovic, so far they have been invested, no less than four million German marks. I wonder -- why not five million, how much until recently was the one that Obradovic compares himself with, and who he reminds more and more. It was found there, gentlemen of the MPs, many more suspicious faces and suspicious things, such as the blue fish of the blue dynasties, the swastika's thigh, as ironically pro-commented journalist of the prominent Belgrade weekly. All of this, I must admit, sounds very logical and clear to me, to me, except for one, which is the intention of Vuk Obradovićada in the future is running for the highest functions. Really, in the whole thing, after all, it's very clear and very, very logical. Finally, because of the clarification of things, it seems to me that it is appropriate to ask a few questions - firstly, did we, in Social Democracy, make a mistake immediately, following the first testimony of our colleagues about the inappropriate behaviour of Obradovic, to defend their integrity, to realize the weight of the mortgage of party leaders and vice-presidents, but also all the risks and unwanted consequences? And in this question, perhaps the question of all questions -- why has it become a kind of conspiracy of silence by then, when it is known that many before us had knowledge, evidence and direct testimony about it? Why, for example, did they put the head in the sand at least three news offices after their colleagues returned from their work assignment injured and humiliated by Vuk Obradovic? Secondly, given claims that this affair was planted on him because of his findings in the Anti-Corruption Commission, why Obradovic had not already been disclosed and found. Isn't this congregation the right place to do it? Now and here, Mr. Wolfe. Or is that the place on the yellow press column? What does he know that other members of the Commission don't know, does he hide something, why and from whom? Third, why does the government not give Vuk Obradovic's work as president of the Commission, whether he was either a stepmother or a mother to all committees. And about that, did he and what assistance he received from Brother Pavic Obradovic. Fourthly, Vuk Obradovic insinuated whose orders, according to him, were carried out by the conspiratorial presidency of the party and how much money they allegedly received for it. So it would be fair to reveal who his employers are, what money he gets from them. Of which money is educated by a son abroad and from whose money he bought and equipped his mistress's apartment in Novi Sad, whether or not it is reconciled with the salary of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of 13,000 dinars. Fifth, what was the intention behind an open campaign against DOS coalition friends, whose account he was working for and who had the lobby behind him. The sixth, whether Vuk Obradovic or the Yugoslav Army are ready to tell the public the truth and the real reasons for his leaving the Yugoslav People's Army in 1992. Gentlemen, I will vote for the release of Vuk Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8605	Since we no longer have registered MPs other than Mr Vujic, and he has the right and Mr Obradovic, and Mr Djindjic, it is likely that we will go beyond the planned time, so I suggest we make a decision that we will work until the end of this agenda. Please state that by voting. For 134, against 35, one was abstained, not voted 31, and a total of 201 MPs were present. I realize we've made a decision to work tonight until the end of this agenda. All right, you, in the end, will have the word of the People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8606	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it is certain that there are more important things...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8607	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8608	... Of those we are discussing today, it is certain that there are more important topics, there is certainly more important events. This extraordinary session, initiated by the government, put this point first, and means that the government believes that at this time this is the most important issue and therefore today's day-long debate, therefore also today's participation and MPs of the SRS. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I was a kid, and it was a long time ago, I was always looking forward to the arrival of circuses in town. I can't look forward to this circus that the government is offering today. It may be because of years, but it's also because I don't believe in a brilliant illusion anymore. Who is normal and reasonable today in Serbia can still believe in an illusion called DOS? What, if not an illusion, is Mr Djindjic's explanation in the request for Mr Obradovic's resolution. In the first position, it is necessary for the government to perform its tasks smoothly, in accordance with one of its basic principles, work without scandals and affairs. Djindjic says Obradovic has reduced his work to an affair, and he is not, while "Gallenika" is an affair and it is a bigger affair, and there is a transparent one in it, and some would cynicalally say even Mr. Vladan Batic's mafia involvement. So, Mr. Obradovic and everything about Mr. Obradovic, says Mr. Djindjic is an affair. So isn't it a larger affair to rob students' parents, study costs, invented like another shudder by the healer, but it looks like never a cured alcoholic, Gaše Knezevic. Work without scandals and affairs in the government, and Mr Obradovic and all around Mr Obradovic - the affair - says Mr Djindjic, so is it not a bigger affair, and it is extremely criminal, giving a million marks from the Lutri Development Fund, the company Dusan Mihajlovic, who, in fact, has nothing to do with it, and the Minister of Interior and Works, and the misdeeds. Work without scandals and affairs in the government and stories about Mr. Obradovic and everything about Mr. Obradovic, you say - the affair, and even that is written by Mr. Djindjic himself, the same office that proposed the same Mr. Obradovic to the Deputy Prime Minister about a hundred days ago. You say about Mr. Obradovic - the affair. Yes, and not just one affair, the biggest of all is this affair about Mr. Djindjic, the tobacco mafia affair, the biggest and most embarrassing affair today. Who is normal and reasonable today in Serbia can still believe in an illusion called DOS? If there is any truth in the created affair, in Social Democracy, and hence the DOS, the eye and with Mr. Obradovic, then the DOS guilt is even greater. The affair is not over, it is constantly upset with new details and picantries. To date, the point of the case and even more - the solution, and then the resolution of this case is not, and it would have to be done by the Administrative Board. To this day, the point of the case and even more - the solution and resolution of this case is not, and should have been offered by the Ministry of Justice. To this day, the point of the case and even more solution, and then the resolution of the case, is not, and most should DOS and this CK DOS. I expect, as an SRS MP, that the DOS will end with full and complete truth. I expect it even more as a parent. My daughter's home expecting it, even more than I do. It's up to you, gentlemen of the DOS, in the name of honor and morality, and the truth works, that truth, whatever it is, it comes out. Until the DOS does, I publicly suspect that something else is going on behind the hill. It is more important for you today to remove not the Vice-President of the Government, but the President of the Commission to investigate abuses, as you say the former regime, but it seems that Mr Obradovic was zealous enough, so he also discovered abuses in the government itself, in you, in the DOS. Who today in Serbia can still believe in an illusion called DOS? If anything takes Mr. Obradovic's shift, then because of his work in the government, as vice president, and because, according to Mr. Mehe Omerovic, he ripped off his female socks and made them stick Batic and his crew on their heads on the night of March 31st. Also, Mr. Obradovic needs to be removed from the post of vice president, which, according to Mr. Mehe Omerovic, has ripped socks off all his associates, except for him. Who today is normal and reasonable in the state of Serbia can believe in an illusion called DOS? In this circus today, I cannot look forward to it, but as a citizen of Serbia, as an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, I can expect, and I will welcome new elections and the fall of such a DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8609	Are any of the other MPs answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The word has Mr. Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8610	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am 54 years old, over 25 years old or about 25 years old in one way or another, participating in this country's political life. I ended my military career in 1992 on my own request and was then the head of the former political administration of the then Ministry of Defence or, as I was just before my arrival, the Information and Moral Administration. In 1997, I set out to create Social Democracy and together, among other things, with people sitting in these assembly benches and many others throughout Serbia, I managed to create a single party of receptive power, receptive power. By the way, unlike many others who accuse me today and some absolutely pointless things, since I was 13 years old, when I became a first-grader of the Shoping High School, I regularly went to all kinds of medical examinations and thank God except for the mild heart attack I had in 1997, I feel well and am healthy. I've been talking from the beginning, and I'm sure of it right now, and this isn't about any love affair, even less sexual affair. If Vuk Obradovic did something ugly in this regard, it will prove to the country's judicial authorities. They're in charge of it, and I won't call for immunity either. I'll give myself the strictest punishment if it turns out that in front of Wolf's incursions, there's been torn apart by any single stockings, or some other ugly things happen to some of the people who were around me. I mean, you know this, I've never been surrounded by bodyguards, and now, as vice president of the government, I'm being followed by two officers of the Sixth National Security Administration -- one, and the other, rarely when both. I don't belong to paranoid types, to those people who fear that something might happen to them, although I am very aware that the weather is ugly, that the Serbian political scene is terribly dirty and confusing and that on it from time to time, unfortunately, it flies away to what head. I don't have any crumbs of paranoia, I don't have any ounces of fear for what's going on right now, but I'm real, I'm not naive at all. In the final instance, for 28 years, I've worn a soldier's uniform and I know what's behind which hills can work. A few days ago, as you know, they tried, some media released it, to trick me into standing behind the writing of Zagreb's National on the functioning of the tobacco mafia in Serbia and Yugoslavia. I knew what that signal was and what that could mean. I know what that means at this point. That's why I want from this place, no matter how much we resent it, no matter how much you think I'm doing something that's inadmissible, to warn Police Minister Duško Mihajlovic to determine who released such a story, with what intention and why, and to tell him loud and clear, if any hair from his head is missing Vuk Obradovic and his family, his associates and their families, that he will bear responsibility. Dusko Mihajlovic is the interior minister, one of the members of the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to whom I have referred at least 30 cases with a request to examine certain things and to me as Deputy Prime Minister, which I also as a member of the Democratic opposition presidency, was entitled to according to a protocol that I signed, not only as President of the Commission, tells me what has been done, what has been found and what measures have been taken. I didn't get a single answer with a number. I didn't get a single answer. I will also remind the fact that we have started with a series of press conferences in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through which it was necessary to inform the Serbian and Yugoslav public about what the Commission has established in 60 days of its operation, and what all the members of the Commission have signed, by number and letters, in accordance with the rules of procedure adopted on the second day following the formation of the commission. The third press conference, which was scheduled to discuss serious abuses in the Republic of Serbia's housing fund and the part held by the government of the Republic of Serbia, did not take place. Mr. Dusko Mihajlović banned it, prevented it, made it impossible for people I otherwise had an agreement on what to talk about, to appear in front of our public. I ask the Assembly to address the government of the Republic of Serbia and ask for the report, which was sent to the government on 19 April. He couldn't be addressed on the 16th, because it was Saturday, Sunday 17th, and Monday the Easter holiday. The idea was for government members in a very synthesized form to say what we adopted in the meantime and we did it. Government members cannot read 400 pages of loan material for Serbia's economic rebirth. We put the whole loan story for Serbia's economic development in the report on half the text page. They couldn't read hundreds of pages about Galenika, about what happened there, about that big scam and the robbery of our people. We've brought the whole story down to two basic points. First, that the majority owner of Galenika is the state of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Health Insurance of the Republic of Serbia, and that the state of Serbia must be determined to protect its interest against the national arbitration court of the International Chamber of Commerce in Paris. Others, to find all relevant republican and federal authorities, the MUP, the Republic Public Revenue Administration, the Federal Foreign Inspectorate, the Federal Market Inspectorate say that there have been numerous illegalities in the privatisation and business process of the company, which is why some people must be called to criminal and any other responsibility. I won't bother you with other things and other findings of that commission. Please look for him. He was published in the meantime. By the government's decision, when this race and the storm came, that mark, which I did not put, was strictly confidential, taken down, and the public was fully aware of that report. In the meantime, I sent a special letter to the Prime Minister, with the intention of drawing his attention to some of the facts that seem important and important to me regarding the functioning of the commission. The most common lie is that Vuk Obradovic has ever identified himself with the fight against corruption and crime in this country. No, I don't. There is enough democratic Serbia to deal with this social evil. But, given the circumstances, maybe God helped me take that kind of burden off myself, and at one point I symbolized that struggle. The people tied me to her, or a good part of the public. I feel a great relief that I don't wear that kind of burden on my own shoulders anymore. I want the newly elected president of the commission, Mr Radovic, to do as best as possible on this extremely responsible duty. I'll always be at his disposal. I know a lot. Hundreds of performances came to me a day. But it seems that some overestimated what I knew and what I knew. You know, and that kind of feeling of some people can be very dangerous. I'm going to be extremely honest and honest to tell you that I first heard of this name Saturday - Cane 20 days ago, although I seem to have been unwittingly riding that plane of his. I'm not saying anything, I'm not saying anything, explicitly, explicitly, but I don't think it's by any chance that everything that's happened has coincided exactly in some way with the timing of that report. I don't want another word of that. Secondly, social democracy is a powerful party. It's a party today with about 130 municipal committees. Everyone is determined and unique to protect themselves, to defend themselves. It was a party with perspective. It didn't suit anyone. Someone seems to have wanted to, and through it, step up their own positions in this House, maybe get some kind of social democratic robe. There's been a blow. I expect the Ministry of Justice to really be the Ministry of Justice. It's not Vuko Obradovic, I'll repeat it now, to no authority, to any function. And I'm pretty sure this is not about his defense, it's about the defense of social democracy. So I'm going to repeat what I said this morning -- there's no party in the world in which, at the congress of the elected president, one group of 15 can be replaced by a political-executive authority. I will also remind myself of the explicit position of the Social Democracy Statute, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Presidency, that the Bureau's meetings can be convened and managed exclusively by the president of the party, which is the person he has authorised, which is the president of the Social Democracy in none of the situations which have been done by the disputed. I begged you this morning, in fact, I suggested that no discussion be opened, that time should be devoted to bigger and more serious issues. I didn't do it guided by some selfish reason, so I wouldn't be exposed to that salvae of heavy accusing words. We in Social Democracy have spoken in continuity - who is with us, our friend, who is not with us, is not our enemy. I suppose it's well known to you that I, on the political scene, have somehow recognized myself by the fact that people who think otherwise have not spoken uglyly. I spoke more rarely by calling directly. I was running away from the hard words. I respected Miljkovic's "kill me too much." I'm not talking, as you know, ugly about anyone, not one of the political inexperiences, about those I'm in conflict with. I won't do it in the future. But I'm wearing a very bitter taste because of everything that's happened. I'm going to do it one more time - I very, very much wish that what was done to Vuko Obradovic, never happens to anyone else in this country again. If these brutality, these vulgarities of the highest rank, which are mentioned here, prove themselves in any way, I give you my word - I will judge myself. I won't need any judge. Slicing socks, bruises, stuff like that. By the way, for what it's worth, I haven't been driving a car since 1991. I've never sat down for a wheel. I've always been with the driver. I was driven by guys who were easy to check out. For the past few months, I've been driven by cops, people from the Department of Homeland Security, and no one else. My destiny as Deputy Prime Minister is in your hands. I just want to tell you that I will fight for Social Democracy along with its members and sympathisers, with municipal and other committees. It's a party that's not for sale. Vuk Obradovic has enough political experience to know what a prospective takeover should do for her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8611	I'm closing the debate. I hereby conclude the search and give my word to the Prime Minister, the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8612	Dear People's MPs, I suppose, as Serbia's public, this whole debate today was unpleasant, so is the government, and to me as a promoter. But it wasn't our choice. This stems from the nature of political life today in Serbia, and probably from the nature of the transition to a normal and orderly democratic state in which it will both relate, and the choice of people, and the criteria to edit differently. But here we are, where we are. Before I say a few sentences about the relationship between the DOS presidency, MPs, the government, because I see that there are some misunderstandings about who decides what, let me just say two remarks. I can't avoid them. In fact, most of those of the opposition who have spoken have a certain double morale, certainly, at two points. First, in the first five sentences, they say that the government has imposed on them one of the most important topics in Serbia, besides many other important topics, and then they use their ten minutes to talk about this irrelevant subject and everything else, and then they overstep and some three times ten minutes each. So then, in fact, about this subject that doesn't matter, they talked for ten hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8613	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8614	That's pretty hypocritical. Secondly, when they took the word, they talked about all the possible problems of this country, and above all about economics, acting as if they had been in opposition for all ten years and as if they were not the ones who created all these problems. Then they wondered for God's sake that the government had failed in 120 days to solve what they had ruined in 10 years. Indeed, it is a surprise in place, only if people in Serbia were so naive and they didn't remember who he was a year ago and two years ago and four years ago in the government. We're like the government that was elected here on January 26th, found a country with 25 billion foreign debt marks and 840 billion domestic debt dinars. When you talk about blocked accounts, unsatisfactory workers, think about the enormous burden you've put on this people and this economy. Now you want someone to remove that burden from the people in 100 days. We will remove him, of course, but we need a little more time and we still need a parliament that, if he says he cares about priorities, that he cares about the law, then he will show it. Not to be a brake with one part of it. We obviously, like the country and as the economy, are going uphill. With our little hand brake, we're going a little slower, because we expect this Parliament to pass laws that will allow this country to gas and move a little faster. Now another topic - the relationship between the promoter and my explanation. There are some misunderstandings, of course, because we haven't been in parliamentary democracy for a long time, between that political force that goes to elections, between MPs who perform on a certain list and between the government they choose. It seems like it's some three planets and then it's said-- the congregation is sovereign, it's a planet to itself, the congregation isn't here, what you're doing there. No, ladies and gentlemen, everywhere in normal democratic countries a particular party, a group of parties or coalitions go to elections. People who run these parties or that party decide in accordance with the rules within the party, who will be MPs. The people choose MPs from that list, with that program, with those promises. Those who get most choose the government. The government is preparing laws with them. It's not a goat congregation, where one with a stronger voice and a bigger stomach has more influence. No, ladies and gentlemen, it's an orderly procedure where someone gets most of it based on their program. [[Applause]] The majority elect a government and the government implements the majority's programme. It is natural for the majority to vote in favour of laws and that is no obedience, it is no annulment of parliament, but a natural relationship between the political force of parliament and the government. In that sense, the political force has proposed to the government, the composition of the government, of course, since this political force is represented by people who are a majority parliamentary group in parliament, they have confirmed it. That's how the government was elected. The same way that political power can change the government. The whole government or part of the government. This isn't the topic that's supposed to be on the agenda. In other countries, you wouldn't find yourself on the agenda or in other countries when one minister most of them who set him up wanted to withdraw, then he retired himself. There is no country in the world where the government's vice-president or prime minister allows the opposition to discuss trust, which has already been resolved in his coalition. That's why I said the DOS presidency decided that, not by entering into the essence of who's to blame and who's not to blame. Neither do I, for one moment, question whether 15 members of the presidency or the president of the party are right. The fact that between 15 members of the presidency and the president can't get even for a month is a burden for us. We, as DOS presidency, say, we're sorry it happened. I have no objection to Mr. Vuk Obradovic's work as Deputy Prime Minister. I don't have any objections. If that hadn't happened, then, if his party hadn't gotten those divisions, it wouldn't have been up to parliament at all. When it has happened, let the government deal with its priorities. He can't answer questions every day, whether they're right or right. It is a perfectly normal procedure and thus we are introducing parliamentary democracy in Serbia. Then we come to a whole series of slanders, lies, plantings. I have to answer one part of that, because people heard it, and from Parliament. Our people are well-intentioned, and he can't think that someone who deliberately deceives him came out on some MP's list. After all these years of deception, people still think -- well, I guess when he talks about that speaker, he has some sense of responsibility for that spoken word. Unfortunately, some don't. Most of the debates today, and above all from the opposition circles, were about me, not about the agenda. I may have been flattered by that obsession with my personality for years, especially in the past few months. It's a vicious circle. Those who are obsessed with my personality all the time claim that I have so much power, that it is not natural in Serbia. In doing so, they give in mythical ways, like some doormen, they give me that power because they only talk about me. That's touching, but ladies and gentlemen, and a little sick. That obsession is a little sick. If it were love, it would be sick, and since it's hate, if it's still possible, it might get more sick than it is. So please, think about yourself and your obsession, don't be so concerned with my personality. I don't deal with myself as much as you do with my personality. Now let's raise some questions that can look like facts or as arguments and answer them, including everything that's mentioned, I hope most of it. The first question is my personal property - do I have property and what property. In July 1994, I submitted to the then parliament of the Republic of Serbia a bill on the mandatory registration of public officials. The bill was then rejected in the Republika Srpska Assembly. It is said more specifically that officials report their property publicly, because it is against the protection of their privacy, as citizens of Serbia. Before I filed that law on behalf of the Democratic Party, I held a press conference and presented a list of my private property, with evidence of its origin. It was published then in the paper and I now responsibly claim that since then my property has not changed. So I am responsible for the public and for the law that my property has not changed since June 1994. I have never had a house today, and I have a very specific proposal (that we do not show photos, you are witnesses): that there is my house, which exists and whose picture is shown by an MP, and his house, to be all witnesses, if there is one, I put it in the Fund for Unsettled Children. If it does not exist, I suggest that a commission be established by the government of Serbia and parliament, and perhaps by the bar, or by whom they want to check. [[Applause]] If there isn't this house of mine, that house Mr. Seselj bought 10 years ago, and it came in those Japanese on bare feet from Sarajevo, yes. That house of his goes to the Fund for Unsupervised Children, because surely many children are unsettled by the politics that this gentleman has been leading here for the past 10 years. [[Applause]] As for me and my houses, so much. [[Applause]] Not just these in the picture, but all the others found in this country or in other countries, not just now, but all the time I'm in this function, where I am. So this is true and it's said publicly, hold my word, and maybe criminally. I suggest that as parliament we accept and I think this is a fair offer and I think Mr. Seselj will have a chance to solve his housing problems in the future, he's still young, he can work, he can finally start doing something. As for the release and removal of the warrant, I responsibly claim that this government and this MUP have taken no one off the warrant. No one's been taken off the BOLO, no Stanko Sobotić, no one else. Some were put on an APB but no one was taken off the BOLO. No one.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8615	Stop dropping out of the O.R. please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8616	I've never been in any business with anyone, not even now. So, I'm fully responsible -- no job, no cigarette-related business, no relationship with anything, I've never been, I've never bought a pack of cigarettes or bought or sold directly or indirectly. Otherwise, I'm a non-smoker. Everything else is slander. Now, just before I move on to crime and corruption, "Nacional" and other very authoritative Croatian sources, in which there is great trust, especially among some national parties, to say something about the economy. Some MPs from this other opposition group complained that the situation in agriculture, the state of education, the situation in the economy is not good, and that the government is not investing. You could have learned in these ten years of parliamentaryism that the government is not an investor. The government doesn't invest otherwise. The government creates legal conditions, opportunities to invest those who have money. Since there's little money in our country, because you brought it out, billions of German marks, or you let it be out in the last 10 years, now the only money, in the form of investments that can come, is money from abroad. This is not so bad because in other countries investments are mostly from global money markets, but conditions, political stability and the country's involvement in international financial institutions are needed to make these investments come. We do a lot of things to make those investments come, but certainly, not today or in the future, we're not going to be a businessman who's going to invest. We're not going to buy as government, we're not going to sell. We're not going to export wheat or anything else, just like the previous governments did. We will set general conditions so that the economy can operate, so that the people who invest in our country have guarantees that their money will be preserved, that it will be safe and that by its investment it will create for our people, who are employed, well-being and for themselves as owners of that money. Never has agriculture been so tax-free as it is in this tax-law. Almost nothing in farm tax is paid. The price of 7.5 dinars is 25% higher than the price in the environment and it is the highest price in the region. This price is subsidized. So that's not a real price. It's a subsidized price. We are conscious of the price that is higher than the market. At that price, we can't sell that bought-out wheat if we want to sell it. We do it to support the village and peasants, because they have been killed in these past few years and we say for that reason - every kilogram of wheat is at least a dinar and thirty is a subsidy from the government. It's not easy for us to find these billions in the budget, but we've been trying very hard for the last few days. Also, two billion dinars have been allocated from the budget to repairs in the electricity sector, and that money has been given not to the electricity industry, but to the suppliers of the electricity industry. It's about 100 or 150 companies, to which the electricity industry has owed for years. Because electricity is actually a node in those internal debts. Due to poor business, the irresponsibility of past governments owes almost everyone. Of course, others owe electricity to electricity bills, but the electricity blocked, by not paying their debts and bills, most of the Serbian economy. Those two billion started 10 days ago. A billion or two more will be added during the summer. It's a huge effort this government is making. It is a huge effort for Serbian citizens, but the money invested in electricity goes to the economy. That money produces something, plus we're going to have an electricity company that can produce electricity. We won't have to import electricity. It's the way the government can invest money in the economy, but it doesn't give to businesses, not to strike now and say -- where the government is to give us money, to make little, and then to ask for money again. That's how a normal market economy doesn't do business. That's what business is about. As far as schooling is concerned, it's completely mistranslated, and I think it's also a corrected question of tuition. In the name of the government, I'm telling you, responsiblely here, no one whose school success is good is going to be left out of college because there's no money. Nobody. Anyone who meets the requirements has good results will be able to study for free. That's one. Two, one who doesn't meet the requirements, has no results, has to pay, because that university has to live on something. And what Cardellus taught you is that college is really just so you don't get to be on the street, but let's go to colleges, and then you don't know what's going to happen to those hundred thousand people who have finished colleges in full halls, without the necessary conditions in colleges where experiments have to be done, in medical, in pharmaceutical, ladies and gentlemen, it's been a while. What will be held in Serbia, which is the government's priority, is knowledge. It is knowledge, but those who want to gain university knowledge must prove it. The others who go to college just so they don't go to the army, or because their mom and dad have money, well, let them pay. I think it's natural and it's not antisocial. On the contrary, it's a very social policy. And now we come to the most important and interesting topic, crime and corruption. As far as this commission is concerned, Mr Obradovic himself said it was and was composed of 10 or 15 representatives of various ministries, the National Bank. Each of them gave his reports. He's been doing his part of the report, and it's coming together. It will be one report published in the paper, what has been done so far. I don't know if anyone recognized themselves there. Whether it was such an explosive text that it would deserve a whole day's debate in parliament. To tell you the truth, I haven't been involved in it since the beginning. I was the initiator of the idea itself, as I said at the beginning. It's fair, no matter what most of that business has been legal over the past 10 years, but it's not moral for millions of people to get poor, to make 1,000 or 10,000 people rich. That's why it's the law. So it's not some big crime, because otherwise, the Commission wouldn't be dealing with it. They're criminally involved in state law enforcement. It's about looking for a model to make an injustice as right as possible. The law is in the process. You'll get a chance to vote on him. You have submitted amendments to that law and you will see that this law will at least one part of the injustice that has happened in these ten years will correct it. He can't fix everything. You can't stop in the same river twice. What happened in this 10 years part of it has gone on and off, but what we can do is at least one part of some small justice that we owe this country. We have touched the oatmeal since the very beginning and there is no government in former Eastern Europe, where in the first month the driver was shot at by a head of state, shot at the interior minister's car, planted a bomb under the car. So that was a sign that we're on a good path and we're on that path. We had two or three priorities in that sense. One where we thought most of all there was abuse and where crime brought the greatest profit. It's oil, cigarettes and drugs, as well as crime related to abductions, racket taking, and that part of the crime scene. The only way to contain these types of crime, and with these structures and services that we have today in Serbia, and we cannot change it completely in 100 days and have now some services that have lived in another country in these 10 years. Most of these people, who are supposed to be doing the job, have worked for 10 years in those services. So there's a lot of problems. There's a lot of trouble at customs in all these services. The only way to stop oil smuggling was to bring in a regulation as a government to bring oil across the pipelines. So, to be brought from the port, I don't know where, in Rijeka or anywhere nearby, and that this pipeline, in whose construction Serbia was partly involved, on behalf of the old Yugoslavia, that oil is coming through the pipeline. First of all, it's much cheaper. It's seven and a half dollars a ton. Secondly, oil is a safe quality, because it's being checked in the Pancheva Refinery. Thirdly, we are sure that all this oil will pass customs duty, pass technical checks and customs duties, be taxed on it, because this tax goes directly into the budget and from that tax, from that part, is paid very significant social items in our budget. I can tell you that from then on, there's been a bit of a mix-up about it. At first, there were many sharp words about the monopoly, violations of the Constitution, etc. I think we have seven to eight times as much revenue as we had before that regulation came into force. Gradually private distributors apply and they will gradually be the main importers of the same pipeline. So, the government is withdrawing completely from this job, and that's a job that can also be controlled by the parliamentary commission that's formed. So there's no example of such a clean move, which in one vast part of the black market was given a deadly blow to smuggling and crime, as it was. That's how we got the money for the budget, that's how we gave the people good quality benzin, and that's how we stopped the mob from having revenue sources, which could destabilize our society. Is that bad? Prices are the lowest in Europe, the price of oil and gasoline in Serbia, is the lowest in Europe. We have a problem with the IMF, they say -- we give you donations, you have the price of electricity and the price of oil to the lowest in Europe. We say - our population has low wages, our people want to drive cars, let us have another year of subsidized prices of gasoline and electricity. It's the result of the fight against the oil mafia. The problem with cigarettes is a little more complicated, because there's a cigarette picker that makes a lot more money, and there's a lot more interest in the interest of the interest group. And outside our country there are many who are interested in the market in our country never being arranged, because in our country 50% of the traffic or the sale of cigarettes is done on black. We were world champion of cigarette smuggling the moment this government came to the scene on January 26th. For the last four years (i.e. from 1997 to 2001), total customs duties, at the border, have been reported importing 700 tonnes of cigarettes. So from 1997 to 2001, 700 tons. Remember, 700 tons. For the month of May 800 tonnes. In May, last month, 800 tonnes of cigarettes were imported, with the amount of smuggled cigarettes always somewhere between 30% and 35% on our estimate. So, still, despite massive border controls along Serbia, the tobacco mafia is still very strong. Now, the moment the public is exposed to a plan to stop this smuggling, by making one big world producer build a factory in Serbia and then making those cigarettes, which are produced in Serbia, cheaper than import cigarettes, no more smuggling at the moment. Because if you can buy "malboro" produced in our country, not produced under a fake company, and imported from China, rather than produced by a legal producer, and if that cigarette is cheaper, then it will be exported from Serbia to the surrounding countries, not the surrounding countries to Serbia. At that moment, various campaigns began (in Zagreb), and very strangely, or perhaps not strange, I was surprised, I wonder -- if something had been published in Belgrade about Croatia's internal economic political life, would they be so upset and so involved, as some in Serbia did, when something about Serbia was published in a Bulgarian Croatian newspaper about Serbia, in connection with Yugoslavia? In this regard, very interestingly, not one word mentions those who had been in power for 10 years, and who everyone knows were major smugglers, because the cigarette smuggling was then a legal, normal job, and the police followed the bootlepers that crossed the border. No, it wasn't them, it wasn't the son of the former president involved, it was me. Imagine, I, along with five agents who filmed, have 850 daily reports about me (which Rade Markovic put away on a CD), managed to continue to be the main organizer, not Milosevic, not those in the government. It's really interesting, really very interesting. So we're going to solve the problem of cigarette smuggling in 2001. In 2001, we will stabilise the domestic industry, with the idea that our domestic industry covers 50% consumption, because our domestic industry is, in reality, producing cigarettes of the quality that 50% of the population of Serbia smokes. Today half of that amount is covered by smuggled cigarettes from two neighbouring countries. Our goal is to defend the domestic industry by stabilising it and introducing order into the domestic tobacco market. And secondly, we will solve the problem of smuggling foreign cigarettes, by trying to bring in a large foreign producer, who will produce cigarettes in Serbia. At that moment, there is no next ruler to be able to deal with cigarette smuggling. There is no, because at that moment, we will be part of a regulated European market, such as Italy, France, Austria, because in all these countries things are arranged in this way. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, there will be a lot of enemies and opponents to this introduction of order, because in the blurry, many have hunted. And when I see, when they start to line up in the papers -- who's all hit by these government decisions, I'm surprised how many of them were hunting in the blurry. But the water is clear in Serbia, Serbia will only be able to operate in accordance with the law, which will be able to control Serbia's citizens, and all of those business people, who look at our country on the side and ask whether they should come, whether they give in, whether these things are being cleared, or whether they remain the same as in other Eastern European countries. As far as normal crime is concerned, it means murder, robbery, serious crimes, in our country, is the degree of detection of these serious crimes above the European average. In the last 120 days, more crimes have been revealed in our country, with unknown perpetrators than in Western Europe. If you don't believe it, the Home Secretary can file a report next time. We have trouble stealing cars, there are more than 1990s, but much less than before October 5th. We have a problem with a network of international drug dealers. Our country is still a very attractive field that this drug is going through. We're having trouble taking rackets, from that tiny one, by the way (I'm not going to accuse anyone now), but, state officials, in uniform, or without uniform, to that big, kidnapping of people and charging for blackmail. We still have these problems, but much less than it has been in recent years. Gradually, police are being built, both technically and personally, services that can prevent it and are determined to prevent it. So, I can tell you quite responsibly, no matter how much some try to, either out of their malice, or out of their own interests, show the opposite, this government is up to now without any financial affair. In this government so far, no minister has financially abused his position. This is a government that spent 60% less on its business after 120 days than in the first 120 days of the previous government. And she's done 10 times more, in terms of international relations, contacts, travel. This is a government that has no representation, this is a government where ministers travel to invite their hosts and in which anyone who invites someone from abroad has to bear the costs, because we, with the request of understanding, have said that this is one poor country and that this government cannot pay for expensive travel. This is one government under the strict control of the finance ministry, in which each spent dinar is recorded. And this is a government that will do its job and that will bring this country out of crime and corruption. This is a government that will have many enemies on that path. It is natural, the enemies will be those who have benefited from it when there was no order, but, as one old Indian proverb says: "The more enemies, the bigger the victory. " [[Applause]] [[Employer Vojislav Seselj is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8617	I'm closing the search and we're moving on to a decision. I would like to remind you that a proposal for the discharge of a member of the Government, as referred to in Article 184(1), is to be made. The Rules of Procedure shall be decided by a secret vote, unless the National Assembly decides to vote publicly. I propose that the National Assembly vote on the proposal to resolve Dr Vuk Obradovic from the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia - using an electronic voting system. Any other suggestions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8618	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since many in this room are in a great divide between morality and obligation, between honor and order, that indeed the decision of the National Assembly would correspond to the real state of affairs and that it would correspond to the sense of justice and justice, in order to meet the essence of the problem brought before the MPs, I suggest that the vote be in the most democratic way, to be a secret vote. Let's see if you DOS are afraid of a secret vote. I'm convinced you're afraid you can't allow a secret vote at the cost of your life.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-11-0.u8619	I am putting the motion to vote on the proposal to resolve Dr. Vuk Obradovic from the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia by using an electronic voting system. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. For 144, against 69, one was abstentioned, did not vote 5, and a total of 219 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have made a decision on how to vote, I remind you that the decision to dismiss a single member of the government is considered adopted if it was voted by most of the total number of MPs. I am voting on the proposal by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Zoran Djindjic, for the resolution of Dr Vuk Obradovic from the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. For 142 MPs, against 20, the abstentions were 52, did not vote 5, and a total of 219 MPs were present. This was voted in favour of the resolution by the majority of the total number of MPs. Thus, the proposal by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia for the release of Vuk Obradovic from the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia was accepted. The National Assembly has made a decision on the resolution of the vice-president of the Republic government. That's what we end today. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 132 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the following MPs are prevented from attending the meetings: Radomir Naumov, Aleksandar Popović, Vlatko Sekulović, Veselin Jankovic, Vojislav Jankovic, Milan Milosavljevic, Bosko Ničić, Anton Biaci, Petar Petrovic, Dragan Marković, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Petar Misic, Neda Arnerić, Rodoljub Sabić. Only in the morning is Laslo Torde and Rade Bajic away, and Bratoljub Janacković is away. Natasa Micic and Milos Lucic will be late. I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to be attended by the President, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. I would also like to inform you that the sittings were invited to attend Nenad Canak, the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and Dr Predrag Filipov, vice-president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, as the authorised representatives of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, who submitted amendments to the draft laws on the agenda of this session. Before I inform you of the next session, I would like to inform you that the session of the Committee on Finance will be held in the session session of the National Assembly in Hall 48 on the second floor. Before we continue to work on the agenda, I would like to inform you that you have been handed a letter to which the Government of the Republic of Serbia, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, relating to Article 160(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia propose a change in the order of consideration of the agenda points of this session, so that the 11th item of the agenda is considered after the 1st point. As you could see from the letter, the Government, when establishing this proposal, had in mind that, as soon as possible, it was necessary to appoint a number of judicial officials and create conditions for the normal work of judicial authorities. For your sake, I would like to remind you that Article 160 is Article 2. The Rules of Procedure, provided that the order of examination of the agenda points cannot be changed without the consent of the proposing representative, at whose request the extraordinary meeting is scheduled and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure provide that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Regular Session are to be applied at an extraordinary meeting, if the provisions relating to the extraordinary sitting are not otherwise laid down. Article 86(4) The Rules of Procedure, which are provided for the National Assembly, may, during the sitting, without a search, make amendments to the agenda points, with the consent of the proposings of the relevant acts. I ask the representative of the Committee on Justice and Administration, Professor Drago Hiber, that, as a representative of the motions set out in item 11 of the agenda, a statement on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to change the order in which the agenda points are discussed. He's in agreement. ) I am putting on the vote by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to change the order of consideration of the agenda of this session by considering the 11th item of the agenda after the 1st point, whose review has been completed, and then we will continue in the order set out in the adoption of the agenda. For 116, against 25, the abstentions were not voted 20, a total of 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: – REVENUE AND NAME OF ONE MANAGEMENT OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE FUNCTIONS Dear Members, for this item of the agenda, you have made proposals for decisions made by the Committee on Justice and Administration, and this is: 1. Proposal for a decision to suspend Judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a decision on discharge from the office of judge and the office of President of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade, 3. Proposal for a decision on discharge from the court's duty of Judge of the Municipal Court in Ruma, 4. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the court's office to the judges of general jurisdiction, with the addition of the motion for a decision, 5. Proposal for a decision to suspend the duties of the President of the General Court, 6. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the duties of the President of the General Court, 7. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the functions of public prosecutors, and 8. Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges and president of district and municipal courts, with correction. I propose that all proposals for decisions on the termination of functions, the resolution and the selection of judicial officers be subject to a single search and that the National Assembly be particularly clear on each proposal. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 140, against one, the abstentioned was not voted 23, a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. In accordance with Article 153 of the Treaty on the Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single review of the motions for decisions on the termination of functions, resolution and selection of judicial holders. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? The People's Messenger Stanko Kovacevic has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure:
