ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8842	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice President, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Law on salaries in public authorities and public services, relating to point 5 of this Article. This is about, I suppose, a mistake made by the Government as a proposer of this law, because point 5 says that this law regulates the way in which the salaries of employees in compulsory social security organisations are determined. Mandatory social insurance organisations are neither public authorities nor public services. So I think this is about a mistake that the Government is about to correct and that we are going to adopt this amendment today. Otherwise, this amendment was adopted by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since he also agreed with my finding that it is a matter that should not be regulated by this law, since compulsory social security organisations are subject to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and the Labour Relations Act, as well as collective agreements, that is regulated in point 158 of paragraph 2. The pension disability insurance law, where it is foreseen that no rules on public services apply to the work of the republican pension and disability funds. Therefore, the solution is provided for in point 5 of Article 1. A proposal for this law, contrary to that provision of the law. Therefore, employees in these organisations should continue to be determined and paid in accordance with the Labour Relations and Corporate Contracts Act. In any case, the government has the opportunity to influence the level of their earnings when giving consent to the government's contribution rates, according to Articles 103 and 104 of the Law, as well as when considering the report on the operations of the funds, which, under Article 103 of the Law, the funds deliver to the Government no later than 31 March of the current year for the previous year. The National Assembly can do the same when giving consent to the financial plan and the final account of these organisations, in accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses. I assume that this argument was complete and detailed and I assume that you, as MPs, will appreciate this, with a boon that the Administrative Board has accepted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8843	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8844	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS will not vote for this amendment. But we believe that this amendment is more of an argument that the Government withdraws the bill from the procedure, to consider any other existing laws that have any contact with this law on salaries in public services, in state authorities, and to take the job of harmonising regulations so that we do not get to the kind of misunderstandings that appear in the bill of law that is before us. Why? We have a problem with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which in the provision concerning pension insurance has taken over an old, overcome, self-management ideology. The constitution requires that pensioners decide for themselves the availability of money collected on behalf of pension insurance, and if there is not enough money, then the government must provide the rest. That doesn't make any sense. In practice, pensioners have never managed a pension insurance fund, but always some embezzlements that have been manipulated and manipulated. Well, we've had a situation where there's not enough money to pay off regular pensions, but there's always a certain percentage from a fund for the privileges of a very small number of pensioners, who could get out of it for vacations and other things that the legislator predicted, actually, when all pensions are paid in accordance with the law, so if there's still money left to fund it. That's why we have to change the Constitution, change the Pension Insurance Act. Because if the state guarantees pension payments, then the state has to control the Pension Insurance Fund as a whole, and not someone else manages the fund, the charity spends money, and the state has to pay for what's missing from every pension. We've had a case for years that the total pension fund is 15% higher than the total net salary fund, which is something amazing for a serious state. When those alignments are carried out, they will have to, on the same basis, determine salaries for all employees of state bodies, as well as an institution engaged in the implementation of the provisions of the Social Insurance Act. I deliberately tell the institution, not the organization, because it should be a strictly state-owned institution. The state stipulates by law that money is taken on behalf of the contribution from each salary, that these money is intended and that they are going to pay off pensions. Then the state must keep all phases of the process, from deprivement of money to retirement, strictly control it, and not leave it at the will of a group of alleged self-control workers, who always have their own special interests, so they can bid on their salaries. We've often had cases in such para-state organizations to share huge wages, and their basic obligation is not carried out. It would be logical - until all pensioners' salaries are paid, that no one from the Pension Insurance Fund can get paid. Their salaries were mostly late or much less late than pensions. Their salaries were usually far above the republican average, which is amazing. That is why it would be best for the government to withdraw the legislative project and deal seriously with the whole issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8845	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 15 against 110 abstentions, 29 did not vote 13, a total of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 1st point, paragraph 5 of the amendment was tabled by MP Arsen Kurjački. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Management Board did not accept the amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8846	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, the amendment I have tabled concerns Article 1, with little difference compared to Mr Pelevic's amendment. Point 5. - "Employees in compulsory social security organisations," a score would be placed and it would be added: "except for employees in compulsory social security organisations for which no funds are provided in the Republic budget". The government rejected the amendment by referring to the Law on Public Revenue and Costs, where it said that the balances of income and expenditure must be taken into account and stated that contributions to the financing of compulsory social security are public revenues. Following amendments to the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses, which we adopted on 31 March, it is clear in Article 5. - "For financing public expenditure, the Republic's budget is public revenue and that" and it lists everything that belongs under public income. There is nowhere to be found to be contributions to the Fund of Mandatory Social Insurance. So much for the government's argument of refusing amendments. My explanation for this amendment is similar to that stated by Mr. Pelevic. According to Article 68(2), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, social security organisations are special organisations run by insurance and rights users. We're talking about how it's formal-law now. What Mr. Seselj was saying, that's what it was like. But this is what it says. The same solution was contained in the provision of Article 95. The Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, under which funds are legal persons with the status of a mandatory social security organisation, in which rights are exercised and funds for pension and disability insurance are provided. Also, according to Article 158 of this Law, it is clear that public service regulations are not applied to the work of funds. Thus, these funds have the character of special organisations, such as legal entities that differ from public administrations and public services. Contribution funds belong to the Fund, as an organisation, and they are considered out-of-budgest revenues. Therefore, employers are employees of insurance and rights users, who manage insurance organisations according to the Constitution. Just because there were abuses of these funds in earlier regimes doesn't mean that we should go on doing it that way. I guess we'll fight to make it different. I did not submit the same amendment as Mr Pelevic because the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia stated that public expenditure was determined for basic purposes. Part of the expenditure financed by the Republic's budget, Section 7, Section 6, says "the funds for other needs", is also intended for donations to some of the mandatory social security organisations. So there's this buckle, where we can say that the government has the right to regulate and pay in these funds, because it also participates in certain amounts as needed. What I've listed is exclusively those funds that have no donations. So, if we take into account the constitutional position of these mandatory social security organisations, and in particular the circumstance that these certain organisations are not subject to budgetary transfers and that their work is not subject to public service regulations, then it is well established that such organisations are excluded from the regime provided for by this law. I'm primarily referring to the funds of mandatory social security of independent craftsmen, who have managed to preserve themselves all these decades without the State's interference. They've always paid off regularly and pay off all their insurance obligations day and day. They're never late. They've really done housework, and there's no reason for the state to put its paws on them now and determine their salaries and everything else that's going on. If they could do their own business by now, I don't think there's any reason to change now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8847	Mr. Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8848	The argument of MP Kuryacki, regarding his amendment, has some logical connection to the aspect of legalism. Indeed, the Constitution says that insurance and rights users manage insurance organisations. But you've forgotten that there's a guarantee that the state pays off by missing money from insurance users every month. It takes more than a billion pension marks a year. That billion marks cannot possibly be collected by the Fund based on mandatory contributions on the name of pension insurance. There's a provision in the budget where it's considered a grant. You can name it in any way. However, without the state, pensions cannot be paid. Fiscal funds must go to the pension fund and the state usually has to contribute much more alone to the pension fund than is possible from mandatory monthly contributions from the staff to be singled out. In the sale of Telekom 800 million marks went to the pension fund, so more than half the total amount, and you DOS predict in this proposal the privatisation law that a good part of the money you plan to make from privatisation will go to the reconstruction of the pension fund. One is a constitutional provision, and the other is a real state. The real situation shows that we don't actually have a pension fund. The pension fund was destroyed in the 1980s through irrational investments for everything and everything. Whenever the communist regime needed money, he took money from a pension fund first of all or from a health fund. Remember how many of Titus's associates have been treated for months in Switzerland for incurable diseases. It was once a third of the health insurance fund. We shouldn't close our eyes here in front of real facts. All these social funds have to be state funds, all the mandatory funds have to be state funds, where the contribution is mandatory. I have no objection to the principle of volunteering being absolutely self-determined about all their internal affairs for categories of voluntary insurance. It makes sense, but where insurance is mandatory, where the state prescribes that obligation, the state has to control everything from the beginning to the end, because without it it can't work, and that's why this is unrealistic. The question is how many years does it take for the state money to pay off all pensions and where the state will find that money. That money's the hardest thing to find. Will the sale be so efficient, so successful, so good that the pension fund is restored? I don't believe it, because if the annual payment is a billion marks, it takes a lot more money to get into the fund to get that billion dollars from placing money on the market and getting interest, which is the essence of a serious fund and how it's done in a civilized world. We probably won't be able to do that in 20 years. If we're not already able, then we need to look at problems realistically and solve them in the smartest way. Allowing employees and managers of the Pension Insurance Fund to determine their own salaries, based on a collective contract or under its own rules, would be purely insane, complete, and therefore we cannot allow it. We need to devote ourselves to the revision of all legislation from that area and to clarify and clarify things to the end. You promised in the pre-election campaign to change the Constitution and now you have a two-thirds majority, so I'm surprised you don't join those changes. This is one of the constitutional provisions that would have to be changed. If there is no money in the fund, then it must be a clean state obligation and the state must at any time collect contributions to pension insurance and decide on pension payments itself, on getting money in all ways. Of course, then it also decides on the salaries of employees in those notations.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8849	Mr. Pelevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8850	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that Mr. Kuryack's amendment be adopted when you have not already adopted the amendment that I have submitted before. I can't understand that an amendment has been rejected that just wanted to contribute to the improvement of this law and not bring it into dissent with already existing legal regulations. Let me repeat, since according to the applicable laws of the mandatory insurance organization they are not public service, it is impossible for their matter to be regulated by this law. The provisions of Article 158(2) shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. The Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act provides that no rules on public services are applicable to the work of the republican pension and disability funds. So employees in these organisations of earnings should continue to be determined and paid in accordance with the Labour Relations Act, or we should not have passed that law at all. So it's that the labour laws are incompatible, pension and disability insurance and this bill, i.e. Article 1 paragraph 5, which I pointed to and pointed to by Mr Kurjački. There's one more thing I can't figure out. This is the report by the Administrative Board of the National Assembly, so this National Assembly, which states that the Committee unanimously accepted the amendments of MP Borislav Pelevic and Amendment 1 in Article 1 of point 5 and Amendment 3 in Article 7 of indent 6 and indent 9. Is it possible for MPs, members of the Administrative Committee, to vote on this amendment on the Committee, and here in the Assembly to vote against this amendment. It is irrelevant whether the amendment of Borislav Pelevic will be adopted, but it is about how consistent we MPs are and how principled we are. It's just that, as far as I'm concerned, it's about my wish, and Mr. Kuryacki, that this law doesn't go against existing legal regulations. Gentlemen, define yourself: Deny this law or repeal the Labour Relations Act and the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8851	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 56, against 88, with 28 abstentions, 9 did not vote, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Bozidar Vujic and Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Management Board has not adopted this amendment. Does the bearer of the courtman want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8852	The amendment I have submitted to this legislative project foresees that Article 3 is deleted. In this way, I propose a total withdrawal of the entire legislative project, and in principle I have already said that this is already a third, frisked version, which is also not fully arranged and is not consistent and adequate today's moment. The argument given by the Government on the proposal of this Article 3 insists that the government determines both the foundations and the coefficients, the same expert government in a transparent way says why it wants to do this job instead of the National Assembly. She wants it to ensure that the total expenditure for the salary budget is consistent with the public spending balance options. So, as the public spending balances arrive, the government will work from time to time on both the basis and the total level of expenditure on salaries. This is not according to the Constitution, and by logic absolutely cannot be normal, and it cannot be so arranged in a democratic state, and we plead that it is. The amendment, submitted by other Serbian Radical Party MPs and even one representative of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, stipulates that the job is not in any way possible by the government, but by the one to whom the Constitution is designated to exercise legislative authority, which should be the Assembly, or the body of the Assembly, which is the Administrative Board. What is the purpose and purpose of this amendment is that, in an indirect manner, it indicates that this is the third time you have to withdraw this legal project and that indeed one expert team, not the one represented by the Government, is doing a comprehensive project related to the Law on Salary in State Authorities and Public Services.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8853	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8854	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. A bill on salaries in state authorities and public services - to be deleted. Reason: Article 3 states that the basis for the salary account is determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Every DOS official when he comes out for a pay phone first mentions the ten-year rule of a man and his will. We were able to make sure that by taking over the Prime Minister's bat very quickly, Mr Djindjic shows the manners of the great ruler and powerful man. Not only does he want to rule, he also assumes the role of chief boss in all illicit and suspicious actions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8855	I have to warn you. When you came out for the pay phone, you were talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8856	Well, here, I'm talking about the amendment. He also showed that when he was in the Together Coalition. Even here, the government is not obliged to negotiate with the unions and that unions will be active participants in these negotiations. However, this may be a recommendation, but this is not the government's obligation to consult trade unions and negotiate with trade unions. It means that if the government wants -- it can, if it doesn't -- it doesn't have to consult the unions. Salaries in public services were arranged by a special collective agreement. Since public service employees' salaries are financed by declaration revenues, it is necessary to regulate them in a unique manner in order to ensure the establishment of appropriate relations in the evaluation of individual transactions. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow students to tax themselves before newly-compromised rich people. The DOS government used young people, promised them a good life as in a fairy tale, and now it turned its back on them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8857	I need to draw your attention again so you don't talk about the amendment at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8858	We must not allow evaluation in education to be performed by one Gašo Knezevic, a man of questionable moral qualities. The trade unions of the technical colleges wonder why the Ministry of Education stopped paying off compensation contracts they signed with the previous government (these are bills for telephone, electricity, heating); contracts did not break. We must also not allow the government to violate the Labour Relations Act, collective agreements and basic democratic rights of workers, in health care, although it claims to lead the country into European integration. Ladies and gentlemen, we must imagine ourselves deeply, because we must not allow the evaluation in the judiciary to be done by a man who, in the style of a real criminal, falls into the Galenika, the Red Flag, the Metrithlastics, etc....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8859	Mr. Zivanovic, I must take your word. (The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, remains behind the pay phone, regardless of what the microphone is, continues to speak, but is not heard in the hall... Mr. Zivanovic, please step away from the pay phone. (The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, is moving away from the pay phone, and at the same time MP Vojislav Seselj, requests a word, gets word and comes out for a pay phone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8860	Mr. President, I don't think there was any reason for you to take away the word from MP Srboljub Zivanovic, because he was merely making an argument to explain why he submitted such an amendment. The amendments of Bozidar Vujic and Srboljub Zivanovic were submitted in the same text. I think the National Assembly should have accepted them, because through this law, the constitutional principle of strict division of power must be consistently implemented. The government cannot decide anything about the judicial authorities and the legislative authorities. Therefore, the basis and general frameworks of the Government could only be set up for the authorities of the executive authority, all the authorities of the executive authority, and there are state institutions in education and health, etc. As far as the authorities of the legislative authority are concerned, it can be decided by the competent congregation authority, of course, not in the final instance, because any such decision would have to be confirmed by the National Assembly. The Committee cannot have such a degree of independence as to decide in an extreme instance, although our practice is different. As far as judicial systems are concerned, there is one problem that needs to be solved, because so far no one has even tried to comply with the provisions and principles of strict division of power. And the problem needs to be addressed by example to other countries with parliamentary systems, which have been developing the principle of division of power for longer periods of time. This should, in turn, be governed by the Supreme Court, by the appropriate regulations. The question now arises whether the Supreme Court can do so for the Constitutional Court, because there is no hierarchical link between the Supreme Constitutional Court, neither authority nor subordination. These are two parallel bodies, whose powers are not intertwined, so it might be good for the Constitutional Court to settle the issue on its own, in line with that quota of financial resources received by the Budget Law, and that the Supreme Court decides for all regular courts in the Republic of Serbia. It is not by chance that the budget is not passed by a government act, but by law, so next to the Constitution by the highest legal act of the legislative body. The government only enforces the law, but the government is not the only state body to enforce the law, although it is headed by the executive authority. All other national authorities shall, in accordance with their respective competences, enforce the law. The government here must not interfere in any way in the jurisdiction of the legislative and judicial authorities. And that is why this should be thoroughly revised and paralleled by doing a new law on courts, adapting both the Assembly Rules of Procedure and strictly disseminating the powers, rights and possibilities of the highest bodies of all three branches of government. This is a question that is now going into constitutional trouble, and if such a law, as the government has proposed, were to vote, it would be directly contrary to the Constitution, and it would have to fall in the Constitutional Court, if Serbia ever again had a Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8861	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I put this amendment to the vote. For 30 MPs, against 111 abstentions 25, did not vote 10, a total of 176. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment of MPs Bozidar Vujic and Srboljub Zivanovic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8862	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I also tabled an amendment to Article 3 at the last session. A bill of this law, where I suggested that it be deleted. There have been a lot of words, by a number of MPs, and objections to this member, and at the last session, and as you can see, a large number of amendments have once again been made to the provisions of Article 3 of this bill. I suggest again, who knows which way, that this is a violation of the Constitution and a violation of the law and that it violates the principle of the division of power, legislative, executive and judicial. I want to remind you again, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, and most of you, I'm sure you know, that this matter must be regulated by law, and in no way by any other act, especially by an act that should be passed by the government. The law should regulate the wage ratio in state authorities, and, as said yesterday at the hearing, 420,000 employees are in public services and state authorities. What's interesting -- there's a fact that's skillfully hidden, which no one today will tell state and public service employees -- what will be the value of the salary coefficient in state authorities and public services. Why is he hiding it? People expect to know what the teacher's salary is, the teacher's salary, the Dean's salary, the salary of the administration in those bodies, the salary of the judge, the salary of the administration's local self-government. So what's the doctor's salary today, the subspecies doctor, about 6,400 dinars? No one is going to present to the public now what these people's salaries will be in public service. I'm afraid, and many expect, so they already conclude, as soon as the government hides the value of the coefficient, their wages will be less than they are at this point. Therefore, it was necessary to determine both the coefficient and the number of coefficients, as this should be clear immediately, in advance to employees, in order to know what they were on. In this way, employees of state and public services, as well as in other bodies, remain in suspense. That's why I've proposed this amendment, and I'm staying with this proposal. I propose to the MPs not to allow, in any case, the legislative authority to be taken over by the government, out of Parliament's hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8863	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word Mr. Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8864	National MP Petar Jojic gave an even better explanation than the content of the amendment itself, because the amendment lacks the National Assembly establishing the law. It should be added to the law, because it is not understood, it can be another act, it can be a Rules of Procedure, for example, which would not work. This is a question that should be clarified to the end. Why? The basis must be precisely defined, payment classes must be precisely defined, not that this law leaves the possibility that each person interprets the essence of the pay grade, as he wills, so that one type of pay grade will be in one state body, another type in another state body, one type of pay grade in the Assembly, another in the Government, for government officials, the third in the field of health, the fourth type of pay grade in education, etc. That's nonsense. Here you must restore and affirm the category of civil servant - state official of the first class, second class, third, until the twentieth, no matter where the civil servant of a given category works, if the law prescribes this. So this is the second variant that is also acceptable -- that everyone is determined by law and that everyone is then strictly adhered to that law, and that's possible. Because in a system of power-sharing and strict equality all three branches of government, the legislative authority is always a little more equal than executive and judicial. Always the legislative authority is more controlled by the executive and judicial authority than the executive and judicial authority controls the legislative authority. So by the nature of things, it's a 200-year-old development of parliamentaryism, and it should be kept, because only in a system of strict division of authorities there are opportunities for parliamentary democracy. Where there is no strict division of power on these three basic branches, there is no democracy, there is no democracy. On this point, the democratic political theory is quite clear and precise. In this case, an officer of one category, first class, would have the same salary, whether it was a staff member of the National Assembly, a government official, a health care officer, education, etc. Of course, overtime would be particularly valuable, especially night work, etc. There are all legal opportunities to make up for what's special, especially. Of course, one who has night work should be paid better than one who only works on the day shift, in that basic day shift. But it all has to be understood. So those who are doing this legal project must be professional, competent, and essentially entrenched in the problem, not to leave a single legal void, to leave nothing disputed, to make the law to everyone in the state service examined, clear, accurate, and that it can easily be implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8865	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 56 MPs, against 112, abstentioned three, did not vote 10, a total of 181. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment to Article 3 was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant amdnaman want a word? There is a word from MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8866	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, much has been said already in this Article 3. The law. For these reasons, I have also submitted an amendment, which is about to say that the foundation is determined by the National Assembly, on a reasoned proposal from the Government. If it is not possible, for any reason, to call a regular or extraordinary session of the National Assembly, then the basis is determined by the Government, by the fact that this basis would be of temporary character, while the National Assembly does not confirm or amend it. It would seem that all these discussions, which were conducted for the first time and yesterday, and today, according to these amendments, could in some way be compromised, so that the Government, in accordance with the balance sheet options, could design the basis, explain to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly by law lays down the basis for the payment of profits in state bodies and public institutions. The argument given by the government when it concluded that it would not accept the amendment only stands a few times. Therefore, the Government is responsible for keeping public spending in mind, harmonising public spending with revenues, etc., which is not at all controversial, but the National Assembly adopts the Budget Law, which accurately determines the balance options of the state for the period for which the budget is to be adopted, i.e. for one year. If changes occur, self-sustaining or increasing public spending opportunities, then there is a budget rebalancing that is also decided by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Hence, it seemed to me that such a solution could be acceptable for the majority in this House or that it would go to the acceptance of amendments submitted by Mr Dragan Marsican regarding the possibility that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would establish salaries for the President of the Republic, for the MPs and other persons appointed, and not in the direct jurisdiction of the Government. Maybe that would be a way to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8867	Does anyone else want a word? The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8868	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's high time we had an open conversation here about the relationship between the legislative, executive and judicial authorities in this country. Let's talk about why it is common in the parliament of the Serbian Parliament to consider, for example. the budget of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the budget you have positions that are only 700 million, a billion, two billion dinars. We demand, with the right, that these positions be based on certain items, to know what material costs are, what wages are, what are individual separations that are planned in the following year, when the budget is discussed. So it is common to us, and it is a normal thing, that the executive body of this assembly, the body chosen by the Assembly, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the draft budget, enters the Assembly, that the draft budgets are considered by all committees of this assembly and that the Assembly is considering this in principle and in particular. Although, when it comes to individual ministries, hundreds of millions, or one, two, three or four billion dinars. Here, basically, we have a bill where monthly spending is a minimum of about five billion dinars. It is about 450 thousand employees in state authorities and public services. It is at least 1,600,000 citizens of this country and their existence. If it's 450 grand, if it's a gross sum, it's 4.5 billion dinars. Of the 4.5 billion dinars, the bill submitted by the government says there is no Parliament, that the government of the Republic of Serbia decides on them, means 12 months times 4.5 billion dinars, calculate, that's 60 billion dinars. The government of the Republic of Serbia deploys, sets out items, determines how long anyone waits, etc. So it is she who decides everything beyond the control of the Serbian Parliament. Why are there congregations in this country? In the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, citizens send their MPs, send them to consider in their interest the conditions of life and work in this country and, in essence, the Assembly is, as a legislative body, and the Supreme Authority of this country. She chooses her executive body and has every right to control it. Where are we coming from now? We will spend days and hours discussing the budget, the position, whether it is 2 million, 5 million or 7 million, and the monthly government of the Republic of Serbia will determine the spending of 4.5 - 5 billion dinars, a year of 60 billion, not asking this assembly. Even, fixing salaries here in the congregation. You know, when we talked about the means of information, about RTS, no one was in favor of the RTS funding tax, but it was a much more independent variant, because all citizens were directly paying through the RTS count tax. Today, the director of RTS comes to the government to take the money. What's the logical assumption? The logical assumption is that he comes for opinion and opinion, according to editorial policy. Well, look what's on TV Palma, there's no Olivera Milatovic, what happened to Bojana Lekic at B92. Don't talk about it. But that story is also here, my dear gentlemen, 450 thousand citizens, 450 thousand families will not depend on their MPs in the Assembly, but will depend on a group of people in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Are we going to compromise the executive body, not only on the legislative one, but also on the judicial one, on the complete systems of life and work in this country, or are we going to keep control here, in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, it is said in part, very little, and the amendment of Mr. President of the Parliament of Dragan Marsicanin. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8869	Anyone else want a word? There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for what Branislav Ivkovic was talking about, I would only say one sentence of consideration, and then I would talk about the amendment. As far as the arrival of the editor-in-chief of state television is concerned, according to one government official, there's a path paved a long time ago. There's really nothing important about it that's changed. It has changed significantly that the owners of all private televisions are now going to the government for an opinion. It doesn't matter where, whether in DOS or in government, the consequences are the same. So the situation has gotten so bad. Earlier, however, the media scene was slightly more transparent. At least a man in one media could seek refuge when the "hike" of the government began. There's not a single medium now. As for this amendment submitted by Jovan Todorovic, it is not legally possible. It would be possible for the first position, that the basis for the reckoning should be adopted by the National Assembly on a reasoned proposal from the Government. But the question arises: why only the Government? It can also provide for any draftor or initiator for the adoption of laws. That would have to be the law. There is no other legal act that the Assembly could bring in this case. However, the second position is completely legally impossible because it is directly contrary to the Constitution. Why? The promoter says, "Extremely, in the event that the Assembly is not in a regular session, it is not possible to call an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, based on the position of the 1st member, to be determined by the Government." He can't do that. Because in case the Assembly can't meet, the government has no jurisdiction whatsoever. No congregation powers that she could take over or take over. The constitution is clear, in the case of war, emergency or state of immediate war danger, the President of the Republic under the Constitution, with the legal power, can resolve this. As soon as this state of war, the state of emergency or the state of immediate war threat ceases, all its emergency acts go to congregation verification. It is only possible, so the Government must not be given additional powers that it does not have under the Constitution. It is said here that the government's decision would be temporary until the National Assembly is confirmed or amended, it simply cannot. Then the government could take away immunity, which would be even worse, and what the government would look forward to. The government could use that precedent in a whole series of other situations. The government wouldn't actually need a Parliament. It rules the congregation by nature feels like some kind of limit to its mightiness. To all governments in the world, parliaments are in the way. Parliaments do exist to interfere with governments, and that is the essence of democracy. That is why we must not put an end to parliamentaryism. So this is a question that is better regulated strictly by law, to be precise and detailed to the end, than to conduct discussions whether this or that state body will be able to take on much more authority than the Constitution allows.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8871	Mr. Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8872	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it seems to me that the opposition to its criticism ignores one important feature of the bill we are discussing today. The opposition today does not want to say that we have been trying to impose order, legally defined order in a very important area of our lives, which has been unregulated by law for the past few years. (Lowers from the O.R.: theme. ) The amendment, which I am obliged to speak of today, which criticises the government's intention to establish the basis and requires this right for parliament. I'll remind you of the definition of the basis, which we discussed when we discussed the bill, which was submitted by Mr. Milovanovic's Resorient Ministry. The base is very variable. Does this mean that this parliament from month to month, because we believe that our society will develop and that the basis will grow, should be discussed with these foundations, should go through everything that we are going through at these sessions and should become a place that will be the main brake of change in society. No one is ready to say that the government has withdrawn the law at parliament's request, that it has authorised parliament to define the coefficients, establish mutual relations and thus transfer fundamental control to parliament. The basics are a technical question. No government, to this government, has passed on such a right to parliament and no government, before this government, has told parliament to ask it to regulate such an important area by law. Because 420,000 people depended on will. Because when there's no law, there's only will and interests that are very variable. It is not logical, therefore, to pass on such a obligation to the Assembly, since the Assembly is able to make such a kind of decision at that rate and at that rate. It is logical for the Assembly to say what these relations are and what mutual values are between individual officials employed in state bodies and in such a way as to establish a system of values that will be binding, not only for us today, but for any authority that will come after ours. But the basics are a technical question. Those who say today - let parliament establish the basis, they practically say - let this assembly be an ambush and let this assembly be the brakes of every change in our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8873	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 40, against 107, two abstentions, were not voted 28, a total of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, knowing from the previous debate on this law that the assembly majority will not respect the division of power into the legislative, judicial and executive, that they will not respect the Constitution in this segment, I have tried to make it possible for the Assembly to establish the basis of 1,800 dinars. About, at the level of one guaranteed profit. Since we have already established the gross profit system in previous legal acts, and this bill is called the Salary Bill, I will have to teach you to pay and phonetically, and in all other ways means net income. Since the coefficients have double jumped, then the logical question is whether and the wages will double, or whether it's just a alignment with the gross profit system. If harmonising with the gross profit system, then this bill should be called the Gross Profit Bill in State Authorities and Public Services. This base of 1,800 dinars would mean that gross earnings, I suppose, are gross earnings, the President of the Republic is, by your coefficients, about 27,000 dinars or about 900 marks, which is not excessive. In fact, it's too much for what he's doing today. But all the other salaries would go that way. Knowing that the government will not support any amendment that goes towards the establishment of foundations in the legislative and judicial authorities to the committees or colleges of these forms of government, I tried to set the groundwork, and that, according to Mr Jovanovic, we would not have to occupy every three months, that the state authority in charge of statistics is coordinating the basis based on the cost of living and other parameters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8875	Mr. Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment may not be the most difficult thing to do, but its essence is that there must be some orientation, some indicator, some criterion, some criterion, some benchmark. This must not be left to anyone's subjective will. This must be some criterion that is consistent with the average or minimum wage, for example in the economy, or something else. That's what the bill promoter has to investigate and see what would be most convenient, and we here to discuss whether that's the most appropriate thing. To those who don't know what parliamentaryism is, I have some things to explain, just as a regular professor of law school. And many students have asked me, since DOS doesn't give me six months to teach college, so sometimes I have to come here after this is being transmitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8877	Since this isn't college, and you're not a professor, this isn't even for discussion in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8878	What am I not?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8879	Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8880	What are you?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8881	In what way?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8882	In any way.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8883	In any way, anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8884	Do you have any professions?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8885	Here's to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8886	Don't use such inappropriate intrusions to intervene with me as I speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8887	No, just to talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8888	I'm talking about the subject. This is where the theme started, and when it started, you didn't intervene.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8889	I'm in the middle of an intervention now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8890	The role of Parliament is to stop the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8891	You already said that. I warn you. That's not what we're discussing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8892	That's exactly what we're having a discussion about. That is the essence of this amendment. We have to control the government, not the government. Every government in the world thinks it's the best. She thinks she's doing the right thing. Parliament exists to prevent the government from being held back, to be hit on the head every time she thinks she's the best, and to do the right thing. That's the essence of Parliament. That is why the government and the government's representatives must not, without the elemental knowledge, challenge the constitutional role of parliament. The people here sent us, our Serbian radicals, above all, to make every proposal to the barbaric fire, political fire. Sometimes our arguments are more convincing, sometimes less, but they're always convincing, and so the public can see where the weaknesses of government projects are. We here in parliament have shown that we always have more patience than the parliamentary majority to discuss laws, to question them or to suggest something better than what the government proposes. You're bored with parliament, now the government can propose to disband parliament. It's the way the government has the ability to control parliament. Whenever she doesn't like parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8893	Mr. Seselj, he's giving you a warning because you're not talking about an amendment relating to the proposed base of 1,800 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8894	Why didn't you give Cedomir Jovanovic a warning just now?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8895	Because it was the second amendment that spoke about the government's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8896	When Cedomir Jovanovic came out for a pay phone, he proved that the amendment had neither read nor understood it. He spoke as if a principled debate was under way, and you are acting in such a way that there is no precedent in Serbia's parliamentary history for what you are doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8897	Write a complaint and move on to an adjudication.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8898	I'm not writing a complaint, but I'm going to tell the public that since the time of King Milan, you are the worst president of the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8899	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 59, against 95, one abstention, was not voted 29, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8900	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, basically the solution that we are trying to change, given by Article 3, is why the government has withdrawn a similar bill from the procedure at a time when we unanimously adopted my amendment on the last draft of the law and it is not true that the Government has withdrawn the law on a proposal from the National Assembly, but the government has removed the law from the procedure so that it is not under the control of the National Assembly, and now the Government is trying to make this Article 3 a cowardly egg again subject to the same solution from the previous law, only otherwise written. So on March 15th we got the previous bill and the government was already ready to determine the basics and coefficients for the salary calculation. We are now in June of the month, the government giving an explanation why it does not accept this amendment, that the basis is 1,500 dinars, says that this base is not real. The government doesn't say which base is real, although since 15. March knows what the basis for the salary is for hundreds of thousands of people in this country's real. The government keeps it as a piece of its own, as a secret of its own, and we here with this amendment have decided to coordinate everything, relations between the legislative and executive authorities. The law prescribes coefficients, the law determines the basis, and then the Government is three months in line with the growth or fall of life costs harmonizes that basis set by the law and gives it the right to do so. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are waiting for the amendment of Dragan Marsicanin, waiting for you to vote for that amendment, because he will not disrupt the relations between the Government and the Assembly, but he is incurring some other relations. We cannot give the Administrative Committee the right to determine the salaries of the President of the Republic and the employees of the President of the Republic. That doesn't even appear in our Rules of Procedure, in the description of the right of the Administrative Board. He has the right to determine only individual acts of the rights and duties of the MPs of the people, and cannot determine in principle, to replace the law. So you have to respect the National Assembly and thus respect yourself. Only at the time of Milan Obrenovic were MPs serving only to vote the budget and as soon as they got out of the assembly session, the gendarmes forced them into an arrest. They were released again when a new budget was due to be voted, and those poor ones had to come to the assembly session because their heads were hanging about the end. You would like to introduce that rule here, that the government fully regulates life in both legislative and executive and judicial power. Today you read in the paper a statement by the minister of justice - says we will raise salaries for the judiciary. It would be more appropriate for him to say - we will be kidnapped, because these are the means used in his public and political life. What's up with us crying for salaries in the judiciary? They have their sources of income, they have their own expenses, they have the Supreme Court and why the government should interfere in the matter at all, why the government determines how much wages there will be, why the government determines what kind of salary the President of the Republic will have and why the government will determine how much pay it will have. How come it doesn't get in your head? How can you not understand the basics? Will the neighbor determine how much bread you will buy for the house? You'll buy as much money as you have and as much bread as your members in the house need today, and not every morning at the gate, I'm sorry, neighbor, as much as I have the right to buy bread today. It is the desire of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and this law to withdraw from the assembly, will write a third proposal in which the same solutions will be, only to re-mute the order of the dots again and again in another way to present their right to determine how they will live in Serbia. They have a certain way to determine how to live in Serbia, but only in some areas. In some areas they are not their own, and they are not powerful. I would very much like you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the representatives of the majority in this assembly, to realize once that you should not be in government power, especially that you should not be in the power of this government, for two reasons. One is that we have never had worse, and the other is that it will quickly disappear from the political scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8901	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 63, against 103 abstentions, there was no vote of 19, a total of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Pelevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. He doesn't accept. The Management Board has not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8902	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 which reads: "The basis for the calculation and payment of salaries and their alignment during the year shall be determined by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly on the proposal of the Ministry of Finance Affairs." In an informal conversation yesterday with Finance Minister Mr. Djelic, I showed him my amendment and he said the amendment was good, but that an amendment of the Democratic Party of Serbia would be accepted. I have no objection to the amendment of the Democratic Party of Serbia's amendment is good and I will vote for it, but it is not complete. It restricts the Government to establish the basis and salary of appointed persons, i.e. elected persons, MPs and the President of the Republic, and that is good, because this does not allow government control over persons elected directly by the people. But it is not complete because it does not include that the government cannot dictate salaries to the judiciary, because, as we know, the government in the Republic of Serbia is divided into three parts, into legislative, executive and judicial power. And Article 9. Serbia's constitution states that the executive power is in third place, following the constitutional and legislative authority carried out by the Assembly, after the president of the Republic of Serbia, only then comes the government's executive power. It is therefore illogical that the government determines salaries in the judiciary because it raises the question whether the government will have the influence and power to control the judiciary, so the prosecution, judges, even the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, authorities for violations and defence. I think my amendment is more complete, because it speaks of the government determining salaries only in the executive authority, or in the executive bodies. And I think that's very correct, and I think you should accept that. When I added this amendment, that is, when I said it was being confirmed on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance Affairs, I had in mind a very difficult situation in the economy, which makes it impossible to fill the budget regularly. And just on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, which has the best insight into the state of the budget, it is believed that this proposal is logical, most comprehensive. In addition, Article 3 states that the basis for the payment is determined by the Government. I think this law should establish the basis, but given the situation, I understand that at this point it's impossible. However, the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly should do so, and the National Assembly should confirm it at its session. If we don't know exactly what the basis is, and we don't know today, then we won't really have anything to do with what the salaries of officials in public authorities and public services will be. Usually, a base is taken or an average salary in the economy for the last three months, as stated in the report of the Statistical Institute, or a minimum profit is taken, or as it is said again in the law, guaranteed earnings. If the average is taken, then the salaries of the officials will be enormously high, since Article 7 is talking about new coefficients that the government has doubled compared to earlier coefficients. Since several of my colleagues asked me yesterday, after my presentation in the principle debate, how did I get these figures, I'm going to allow myself to repeat what the salaries would have been if the government had taken the average of the republican salary for the previous three months or at least for the previous month. In the last three months, the average was 4,500 dinars. It means that the president would have 4,500 hours 15, and I think that would be a lot, even if that president was Mr. Milan Milutinovic, who, by the way, does not earn his salary because he does not perform his duties the way the Constitution does. If that base were just a guaranteed salary, which is 1,500 dinars last month, then it would be a salary that could already be applied and would be 22,500 dinars. It is a salary suitable for the job carried out by the president of the Republic, but compared to the average in Serbia, which is very small and amounts to 4,500 dinars. Now, these are those relationships and we don't know whether the government will take the average of the republican salary as a basis or determine a minimum. I hope that the government will fulfill its promise of savings and that the salaries of officials can't be too large and that they will take for the foundation the guaranteed income that is appropriate at this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8903	Is anyone answering for a word? I really feel a commitment, I don't have this right, but this is information that's given as information, and I'm afraid it can echo very badly in public, this is not at all the basis that's been discussed anywhere. This is information that goes directly to the harassment of the people following this session. (Noting some MPs from the bench that he has no right to intervene like this. ) I said I had no right, according to the Rules of Procedure, but I think it is very important that this should be emphasized that there is no talk about determining such wages.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8904	Mr. Martian, you have no right to come from that place with the MPs. You can take your word for it, go out for a pay phone, and then you can go out. That way you can't flinch. If there is something that you disagree with in the presentation of the MPs, even if there is something that is not favourable or incorrect, there is a competent minister, so let him correct it, but you have no right to behave like that. But anyway, it's not your first time, I'm not saying it because of you because I know you can't fix yourself, I'm stressing it here for the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8905	I pointed out that I had no right to speak and to plow. However, I estimate that one piece of information has been given here from the pay phone that can seriously upset Serbian citizens, and this is completely incorrect information. If it is false information, it is my duty, as a serious man and president of the assembly, to warn you. (To receive a comment from the MP from the bench to specify the point. If you're looking for a point, you'll get it in accordance with the law that will be established here today. And I'm asking you to stay out of it. But it is my duty as president of the assembly to warn that a bill has been issued from the pay phone that can seriously upset the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Pelevic picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8906	Mr. President, I didn't want to upset Serbia's public with this bill. But it's just that the government doesn't want to tell us how much the base will be and how the base will be determined. I can doubt that, because the government had already doubled the odds of the past law, so it increased the President of the Republic by one more coefficient, it was seven, and now instead of 14, it increased the president to 15. That's all I said, and I just figured out what kind of salary there would be for officials in the state if the average salary was calculated, and how much would it be if it was taken as a base for last month's minimum earnings. That's all it's about. I don't see how the public would get upset. I even, if you listened well, and I commended your amendment and I said I would vote for it. Please don't warn me about it, because it wasn't really my intention to upset anyone. It is true that I was the first to speak for this speaker to say that our salaries, MPs and other officials, are very high compared to the salaries of Serbian citizens. I'm standing on it, too. But please - let the government determine and let us know that there will be a basis and in what way, because the coefficient has already been doubled. That's all it's about. We don't know what the President of the Republic's salary will be, how much the Minister's salary will be, how much the Members' salary will be, but I don't think those salaries should be a secret. On the contrary, the public should know what the wages of all those chosen will be, appointed, appointed. I just wanted to point out that the government is still obliged to give the foundation, to determine it or to leave it to the Administrative Board or to the National Assembly to determine the basis, so that it is known and that we do not come into a situation without knowing what the basis is. And I, in my amendment, predicted that the basis was determined on the proposal of the finance minister, who has the best insight into the current funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8907	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Tomic appears.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8908	Dear People's MPs, I agree with the President of the Assembly, but I don't think the previous speaker had any evil intentions, but it's probably just a discrepancy with the use of the term. The difference between the base and the average profit is absolutely enormous and cannot be put into one termological continent. When it comes to basics, the average basis, let's say, is 605 dinars in health care, in the government's state bodies about 815 per coefficient, and then added to that 30%, etc. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: What member? ) I said by Article 98. You didn't hear. So, without intending to defend anyone here, but definitely to make it really clear, between the average profit and the base applied to any coefficient, there's a huge difference. It might be good for all of us to have such salaries, or to live in other conditions, but that absolutely doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8909	Anyone else want a word? He has the word Mr. Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8910	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, even though this amendment is not fully in line with the Constitution, would be more bearable than the provision that the Government determines the basis. This should not be done independently by the Administrative Board, but if the Administrative Board were to propose to the Assembly the text of the law, it would already be possible to do so. On this point, if there is false news and harassment to the public, then it is done by the Government, not by parliament, and it is inappropriate in such a way to hinder the discussion, as the president of the National Assembly has done, according to this amendment. What do you see from this, what's the basic problem? The basic problem is the scales. If the government had acted more wisely and had the government had had pure intentions, then it would have proposed a clear, as the government and its ministers say, transparent law, and would have said - the minister has a salary as head of the university, or the Director General of the Clinical Centre, the deputy minister has as a dean of the university, the assistant minister has as a regular professor, or as a director of home health etc. They're real scales. A high school professor has a salary as a government advisor, that's about their rank. That's what you should have done. We tried, but the minister himself said, or the head of the DOS parliamentary group, for three years this issue has not been resolved at all. It's a pain to resolve this question, but the way you try it is the worst possible. You leave your hands to the government to burn and burn both in health and in school, and in all other public services. Over your knee to resolve like Batic, it's the easiest, and the government then meshetars everywhere, on all counts. I guess our common goal is to have one law, which, when it does, can be valid for 20-30 years, which will be incomparable with its quality. You obviously don't want that kind of law. You want free hands for the government, and you want even more chaos. If you really want this issue to be resolved once, on the principles that everyone would have to be satisfied with, because from a legal point of view, they couldn't even get burned, then they'd have to make a thorough bill like that and be made by experts, made by people who understand themselves in this job, not like this - the obvious, as much as they need, or as much as the government thinks they deserve. This is the worst possible option, and that's why it's better to withdraw the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8911	Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 58 MPs, against 116, there were no abstentions, no 20 votes, a total of 194. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. He has the word Mr. Stevan Kesajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8912	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if it is not already withdrawn from the procedure of the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, then we, MPs, have tried to influence that law to the fullest extent possible. However, it is difficult to improve something that is wrong to the extent that it does not correspond to the users of this law. However, I believe that the amendment I have made may have some effect on the establishment of the legal framework. That is why I have submitted this amendment, wanting to influence the application of constitutional provisions, where legislative, executive and judicial powers must be separated. It was only this amendment that affected the government's ability to determine the basis and reckoning, as well as the payment of salaries to elected persons, and that, to the MPs, the President of the Republic, and then I am here, given that it is a very important man and a person who regulates and technically manages this assembly, I have also inserted the secretary of the National Assembly. The government's competencies and competences will not be eliminated with this amendment, because in the next amendment, so at the point behind this, I have regulated the rights and competences of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Interestingly, however, the government responded by refusing the amendment. She says -- in order to ensure the implementation of expenditure in the planned volume, it is necessary for the government to establish the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, as it is responsible for the implementation of the Republic's budget. No one's arguing about that. However, I believe that the Assembly Committee, or the Administrative Board, would fit the budget expenditure balances, which would be in the responsibilities of the National Assembly, as a committee, and thus fulfil these obligations that the Committee has in the National Assembly. This would only separate partly legislative, executive and judicial authorities, and the problem of the judiciary would remain here, where a special law could regulate this issue. That is why I propose that this amendment be adopted and that the assembly majority decide to eliminate the government in this part, where the salaries of elected persons are determined, from that part.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8913	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 53 MPs, against 109 abstentions, there was no vote of 26, a total of 188. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Dragan Marsican. The government has not spoken of a new amendment, with a correction, and I ask the Government's representative to plead. The correction was only added, it was given to MPs. The correction is only at the end of the last sentence: "in line with the funds provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget". Okay, I'll read the complete text. In Article 3(1), paragraph 1 is replaced by a comma and the words "except for the President of the Republic, the MPs and appointed, appointed and employed persons in the services of the President of the Republic and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are added. "The same article, following Article 1, adds a new position on 2nd, which reads: "The basis for the calculation and payment of salaries for the President of the Republic, MPs and appointed, appointed and employed persons in the services of the President of the Republic and the National Assembly, the Republic of Serbia is determined by the Administrative Board of the National Assembly, in accordance with the resources provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia." The government has accepted this amendment, the Administrative Committee has adopted this amendment, so it becomes an integral part of the text of the bill. National MP Stevan Kesejic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a. The government has not accepted this amendment. Neither does the Administrative Board. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8914	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 3 that I have given in my previous position, or in my first report, is closely linked to this amendment that I now endure. This is where I listed all the powers of the government that have the authority to determine the basis for the salaries of the users of the budget. As I said, I believe that the lack of this amendment is only in the part where the judicial authority continues to linger. So in this package, where the government determines. But there is one interesting thing, where the Administrative Committee, or Government, says about the member I submitted that this amendment is contrary to the amendment that I submitted to the same member in the previous case. That's absolutely not true. He is closely linked to the amendment and explains the authority of the government of the Republic of Serbia. When Amendment 1 and Amendment 2, which I have proposed, it is essentially the same amendment that was just adopted by the MPs of the DOS. That's why I'm giving up this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8915	I find that MP Stevan Kesejic has withdrawn his amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dragan Colic, Gordana Pop - Lazic and Veroljub Arsic. The government has not accepted this amendment, nor has the Administrative Committee. Does anyone want a word from the applicants of the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The draft law on salaries in state authorities and public services, although this law does not refer to this name. According to what it contains, it could be a bill on earning employees in state authorities. Article 4 refers to the determination of coefficients and quotations 1 and item 2: "The coefficient expresses the complexity of business, responsibility, working conditions and professional preparation". That's not controversial. Item 2 states that the coefficient also contains an addition to the name of the diet fee during work and the regress for the use of annual holidays. That's contradictory to Article 5 where the pay additions are listed. Can't something that's variable category to be contained in the coefficient. The coefficient is something fixed and unchangeable. How, for example, will the coefficient to include the regress for the vacation or, worse, the food allowance during work, if it is received by the number of days the worker has been in the workplace. If he was sick, there's no charge. In addition to being technically not well done, which this cannot possibly be in Article 4, and contrary to Article 1, where it is said that this law determines how wages, supplements, fees and other receipts are to be determined, I believe that Article 2 of this article should be deleted. Of course, I'm not happy with the government's explanation of why it doesn't accept this, and that's why I'm going to read what the government says about my amendment, explaining the non-admission of amendments by moving on to the gross wage system. She says "by moving to the gross salary system, the component of the salary becomes and the food supplements in the work and the regression for the use of annual holidays". It is proposed that those supplements be contained in the coefficient (i.e. the Government acknowledges that they are additives) in order to ensure that the transition to gross wages keeps the pay ranges in place, depending on the type of business. Otherwise, if that weren't the case, the pay gaps would have been significantly disrupted. It's absolutely incorrect and technically impossible to perform. Here comes the minister, I thought I'd ask him to clarify it, if he's clear about this law at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8917	There is a word from MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8918	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 of the bill, paragraph 2, to delete. It is absolutely impossible and illogical that the coefficient contains a supplement on the name of the diet fee during work, and a regress for the use of the annual vacation, since the food fee is a variable category and its amount depends on the number of days the employee spends on work, and the coefficient can only be expressed in a number expressing one constant value based on complexity, liability and working conditions or professional equipment. It is indisputable that such a bad bill can hardly be corrected by amendments. It is not reasonable to just vote against the proposed amendment by initiative, not thinking, and allow the government to control even what never belonged to it. Whether we MPs should be under the control of the government, or the people, to whom we are alone and responsible. If Zoran Djindjic and his "satellites" continue to control all flows of money, all public enterprises, banks, customs, most municipalities, we must not allow ourselves, representatives of the people, to be controlled by the government. Isn't it an essential obligation of the Members of the People to control the Government and not the Government of the People's MPs? You, DOS, seem to be the other way around.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8919	There is a word from MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8920	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are already familiar with the amendment in his exact text. However, the fact is that when the bill was passed, the government made a number of failures in this part of the matter. The government's reasoning is that this amendment cannot be accepted, for the reason it goes to the principle of gross earnings. However, in principle and in conditions where there are no coefficients, the employer himself can work, in proportion to his costs during work, on a warm meal, to resolve through an increase in his salary. In the case of a public administration worker, because of the coefficients in which they are included and that compensation for a warm meal, there is an irregularity. It's not just the number of working days, how much who worked during the month, but how much time it was during the day. There are certain positions in the authorities of the administration where workers have to work 12 hours incessantly, and that doesn't count as overtime, because it's in their job description. Normally, a working worker who works for 12 hours, then 24 rests, so 12 works, 24 rests, much more funds will be needed for his warm meals. So this matter, in any case, cannot be regulated in this way as the government predicted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8921	Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8922	This amendment should be adopted for a number of reasons. Why did even three Serbian Radical Party MPs insist on this, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Dragan Colic and Veroljub Arsic? Because the government in the law project indicated the pay grade, and it didn't work out at all. No one alive knows what her concept of pay grade means. If payment classes are actually introduced, they can only be introduced for all categories of employees in the state administration and public services, uniquely. If done, then there must be some correction between the lowest and highest earnings. Of course, a maid without professional training will have a much lower salary than a government employee at the highest office. A warm meal and a regress for vacation is exactly that correction. He who has the highest salary, a warm meal and a regress like a fly on a bear. So he's counting on his gross salary and he doesn't feel it. If someone with the lowest salary, a warm meal and a regression are calculated as a basic, it's really hard to hit him. A warm meal and regression have always been paid linearly, and the correction, which improves the position of the lowest paid categories of employees compared to the best paid, should, for this reason, remain out of this base, in order to really act in practice. That's the point. And so the one with the lowest salary will barely make ends meet, or he can't put it together for a long time. Now, you can charge him with his pay base by calculating the regression and the warm meal. You better kill him now, so he doesn't think about how he's gonna feed the kids. This is a very serious amendment. It seems that no one here has the willingness to consider the seriousness of the amendments. Nor did anyone who wrote this bill ever think about it. You have so easily accepted the Martian amendment, first of all the Serbian Government, although it was both unprofessional and incompetent, and when it comes to expert and competent amendments such as this, you will not think about them at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8923	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 61, against 90, there were no abstentions, there were no 27 votes, out of 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vujic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8924	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 7th Legislative Project shall determine the coefficients for the calculation and payment of salaries of elected persons. holders of legislative, executive and judicial authorities in the Republic. What's the starting base for these coefficients? The government has found it in the previous and up until now the Law on Working Relations in State Authorities. What did the government do? Looking at the situation in society, the general state, the government has made some adjustments. It has come to the knowledge that certain adjustments need to be made. I also feel it is necessary to make certain adjustments, those corrections that the Government has made. The government, refuting my amendment, gave the following explanation: When proposing the coefficients, it came from the need to establish appropriate relations between the institutions of three state functions and, on the other hand, between the carriers of each of these functions. It's an explanation that doesn't tell you anything where the mistake was in my amendment, so they refuse it. They explain what they were doing to make certain adjustments within these coefficients, within what we're about to have -- coefficients as the starting base and pay grade. I had the same intensity as the government. That is why, as well as the Government, realizing the relationship in society and the situation in which our country and people are in Serbia, I believe that even greater corrections must be made in relation to what was previous and lead to what should be done in a more adequate and comprehensive manner. Therefore, my amendment is also going, with the fact that I have given an additional thing within the framework of what the Government has proposed, that both the presidents of the district courts and the district attorneys enter more, because that function, in a more adequate and fairer way, enters this correction, which is why this amendment has also been submitted. If the government refused the amendment, not explaining why, but explaining why it had corrections, I think my corrections are even more fair than this country and society.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8925	Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8926	The problem with this amendment, and above all with Article 7, is even bigger after the government has taken the amendment of Dragan Marsicanin to Article 3 thoughtlessly, for granted. By accepting the amendment of the Martians, which did not consider the other members of the Law and the consequences of accepting its amendment, he is even more controversial in Article 7. Here for the President of the Republic remains a coefficient of 15. The Management Board will now determine his salary, i.e. the basis. Well, if the Administrative Board determines a much bigger base than the Government for civil servants, it can happen that it has 7-8 times more salary than the Prime Minister, which is terrible. We already had one such problem in the past term, but we refused in the government, because Milan Milutinovic asked for a salary twice as high as the Prime Minister. We made fun of it at the government and it fell on the government. You can find it in the record, because you're digging through all kinds of papers. Dig it up, too. It doesn't matter who's gonna be in that position. It is important that the function of the President of the Republic should not bounce from the post of head of three branches of government. In fact, the President of the Republic is the head of the executive government, first of all. He's the chief executive officer. (Stanko Kovacevic, from the scene: It is not true. You who don't know anything, how can you say it's not true. Here's stevan lilic, a regular law professor, so ask him. Don't get involved in what you don't know. Let her explain to you whether the head of state is the head of the executive. (Stanko Kovacevic, from the scene: It is not true. Well, that's not true. It's not true that today is the day. I see, you're not warning him tenently. Who can explain anything to a man who doesn't know anything? Here, air-conditioned Stevan Liliæ and him, the professor of administrative law. That's a lot closer to his profession than I am, I'm a professor of the political system. The President of the Republic must have no higher salary than the President of the National Assembly, than the President of the Supreme Court and the President of the Constitutional Court, because then one branch, the branch of the executive authority, is directly placed above parliament and in an incredible proportion. The President of the Republic must equalise himself with the President of the National Assembly and the President of the Supreme and Constitutional Court, and the President of the Government either has the same as the President of the Republic or slightly less than the President of the Republic. It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter at all. There's something else to point to here. In fact, the Prime Minister has more power than the President of the Republic, but formalising the President of the Republic above the Prime Minister, and formally the President of the Republic is not above the President of the National Assembly. It can only be protocold for military and other honors and nothing more. It is not technically above the president of the National Assembly, it is not the head of the National Assembly, nor is it above the President of the Constitutional and Supreme Court. That is why this is extremely unserious, and this is going to be absurdly legal today, especially with regard to Article 7 of that law, which is now being addressed and addressed by the amendments. This amendment did not fully specify it because it had to equalize the President of the Republic with the President of the National Assembly. He just significantly reduced the difference. Instead of three index points, he reduced it to 1.4 index points, so more than half the difference you've determined. There can't be any difference. Think about it, consult legal experts when writing laws. Don't let the wife of Interior Minister Zoran Zivkovic write you the laws. It's a disaster. You hired her there for the secretary of the Legislative Secretariat and the Assembly is getting more and more ridiculous legal projects. Legal experts need to do that. There's a lot of legal constituencies in this country, but they can't come to terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8927	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 56, against 96, three abstentions, 25, 180 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In Article 7 of the amendment, MP Milorad Mircic submitted. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question is how appropriate it is now to comment on the proposal of such an amanamic one, in particular the adoption of a reckless amendment by the President of the Assembly, which, by amending Article 3 of this Law, essentially changes and provisions in Article 7. It is a little strange why the Government, when clearly under certain pressure, because there are no other reasons why the Government did not go further or more specifically to consider the consequences of the adoption of such an amendment relating to Article 3. There must be automatic changes in relations and corrections in Article 7, especially where the already adopted or component of the law, which has become Article 3, for the President of the Republic, for MPs and for all employees in the Assembly, is now the National Assembly, and we are about to come to what Mr Vojislav Seselj has tried to explain. However, obviously you either don't understand it or you don't want to accept your mistake, to admit that you made a mistake accepting this amendment which is ultimately undefined when it is installed as an integral part of this law and we will be in a situation that, let's say, since it is the Assembly that determines the salary for the President of the Republic, by increasing the basics it will have a much higher salary than the Prime Minister or the President of the Supreme Court. On the other hand, we can get into a situation, talk about the consequences caused by the adoption of such an amendment, clearly undefined, we can get into a situation where MPs or the secretary of the assembly have a higher salary than the minister in the government. I may not have found a good example when I listed the Secretary of Parliament, but anything is possible as he behaves, possibly getting a higher salary than any minister in the government. Our proposal, and in principle, the proposal of the Serbian Radical Party, is that these coefficients in Article 7 are corrected, that they are going to equalise the coefficients, equalisation on the basis of the functions they perform, so that we have set an example in principle of how it would be best and most comprehensive, that the President of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister and President of the Republic have the same coefficient. It would be good if a representative of the Government had adopted an amendment to Article 3, to review or look better at this Article 7, to make corrections in Article 7, in order to make it clear to the law what the coefficients of functions such as the President of the Republic are.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8929	Is anyone else applying for a discussion under this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 55, against 103 abstentions, there was no vote 24 out of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MPs Joca Arsic and Rajko Baralic, who proposed adding a new indent after paragraph 1 and amending the existing indent 2. The Government and the Administrative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? The word is Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8930	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday I explained practically in the debate on why I think this amendment should be accepted. I'm just gonna do a few things again today. In almost all municipalities in Serbia, the president of the municipal assembly has at least a few percent higher incomes from the president of the municipal executive board. If we apply the principle of analogy, it would be perfectly normal for the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to have a higher salary than the Prime Minister, among other things, because the President of the National Assembly must be a National MP and because he has some kind of authority that is closer to the President of the Republic of Mexico than the Prime Minister under the Constitution. So I think it's a matter of absolutely principled nature. It's not about any personal motivation, and I don't think this is about heights of profit. This is a matter of principle. The National Assembly is the highest home, and I think the president of the National Assembly should also be through the level of earnings valued, at least for one step, more than the Prime Minister, elected by this assembly and by the MPs in it. So, I am guided by only one principle that exists and is applied today in Serbia. Talks with colleagues today, and I also know that there are some municipalities where there is equal pay for the president of the municipal assembly and the president of the municipal government, but in the largest number of municipalities, the presidents of municipal congregations have higher salaries, higher earnings than the president of the municipal government. That is why this has caused great interest in our public and let me just say one more sentence, that the workers of the Municipality of Voždovac municipality have addressed the Minister of Justice Mr Batic about the existing situation in this municipality, about the coefficients and other things that are happening there. So I ask you to consider this amendment of ours and ask the MPs to accept the amendment that I have submitted with Mr Arsic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8931	I really don't understand what these socialists are doing. I understand their grief about the loss of power, but I can see with them the tendency of a dossing to the majority of the Doss. Look, you're asking to increase the coefficient on the president of the National Assembly, but you're not surprised that there's such a difference between the president of the National Assembly and the MP. The president of the National Assembly is only the first among the equal in the Assembly. It could be a little higher pay, half an index point, let's take the whole point, but it's going to be 4.7 - well, that's scary, a little bit, so it's almost twice the salary of the National Assembly president than the MP. It's tragic. It can be in some system that doesn't know the nature of parliamentaryism. It's only the first of the equals here. The president of the National Assembly has virtually no authority, and not every other MP, who is of great importance, and especially does not have any authority. That's why this is ridiculous. You've led this to absurdity. Instead of reducing him to the pay level of the MP, you raise him to such an extent. There's an unbearable range. And that is why this amendment should not be accepted, but that part of Article 7 to which the amendment applies should be regulated, reducing that coefficient of the president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8932	Since no one's answering for a word anymore... (The MP Baralic reports for his word. But, Mr. Baralic, you've been exposed as an applicant for the amendment, you have no right to take your word for it now. The People's MP, Arsic, reports. ) Mr. Arsic, the MP, has the right to take his word for it as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8933	The Honored Presidency, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, was aimed at showing exactly that there should be a difference, and that the relations that this proposal put forward by Article 7 of this Law have completely disrupted the relations between the President of the Republic and the lowest in the proposal, as provided for in Article 7 of that proposal, and this is for the Judge of the Municipal Court. If we're talking about differences that should exist in terms of these coefficients, then these differences must be appropriate to those who are being valued. It is certain that this amendment wanted to show that the President of the Assembly should be more valued than the Prime Minister. Is it linear to reduce everyone - there have been such amendments? It is precisely the goal of showing that there must be a difference between the President of the Parliament and the Prime Minister. I don't want to comment on the difference between the president and the MP. It is certain that the MP here ranks the president of the municipality with over 60,000 inhabitants, which is also inappropriate in ranking or evaluating these relations. For these reasons, Mr Baralić and I have made this amendment in order to show the absurdity of such a way of evaluation in which the president of the legislative and executive government is equalised. It's another thing. We had no intention of courting anyone with this amendment. It would be wrong for MPs to talk about their salaries being low, I think that would be incorrect, to make it demagogue. We just wanted, as I said, to point out the absurdity of the existence of such relationships and the relationship in the evaluation of all this which was offered to this Article 7. Therefore, it is not our pledge to raise salaries to the President of the Assembly, unless we intend to change the law when the power changes. The law should be passed for a longer period of time, and whether these elections will be in two years, in two months, or in 220 days, it is quite relative. It is important that a quality bill regulates quality relations in the area and that this lasts longer than the mandate of one government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8934	Since no one has applied for the word anymore, I am putting amendments submitted by MPs Mr. Arsic and Mr. Baralic to vote. Please state by voting. For 36, against 116 abstentions, there was no 29 vote, out of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. On Article 7, indent number 1, the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does National MP Natasa Jovanovic want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8935	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is truly incomprehensible how many hearings there are, how many ignorances there are in the DOS majority of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when it was able to accept the amendment of Parliament President Dragan Marsicanin, in which he selectively asks for the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries for the President of the Republic, the MPs, appointed and employed persons to be appointed by the Administrative Board of the National Assembly. With these amendments, I asked that the coefficients for the President of the Republic be reduced in analogous to the reasons given to the MPs, the representatives of the Government called for the Law on Working Relations in State Authorities and all the coefficients doubled. However, when asked by the President of the Republic, the coefficient is higher by one index point and is much higher than the national MP's coefficient in the National Assembly, than the president of the parliamentary group, than the president of the permanent working body. It is simply incomprehensible that the assembly majority accepts the amendment of Dragan Marsicanin, and that all the time while the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party were justified, through their amendments, asked us to explain why the government, as an executive body in the state, would establish the basis, the president himself did not give an answer to it, he did not know, he said - he singled out his own, and you blindly, obediently accepted it. And what about those who work in education, what about those who work in health care. My amendment comes from the strict division of power in our country, so I believe that both the President of the Assembly and the President of the Republic, both the Prime Minister and the President of the Constitutional Court should have the same coefficient. What ratio will apply here is now a matter of decision and repairs in this law. But the government's argument when refusing these amendments, which I have submitted, requires that equal bearers of functions in the legislative, executive and judicial authority are simply unbulbly and unacceptable to me as MPs, because the government is said to have come from that, on the one hand, to establish appropriate relations between the holders of three state functions, and you do not want to place in the same plane the holders of legislative, executive and judicial authorities. On the other hand, "between the carriers of each of these functions", I don't understand what the proposaler's representative was going to say with such an unsuspecting explanation. Then, in Article 7 paragraph 1 paragraph 5. The bill, president of the High Court of Commerce, has been set a coefficient that is much greater than both the president of the parliamentary group and the MPs. Is this because of Mr Kljajevic, who is now in that place, which you need and how much you need in your greed and in all these intentions regarding and after the vote of the privatisation law, and I have asked that the coefficient of 9.6 be reduced for the President of the Higher Chamber of Commerce, and that he be established as president of the Working Body of the National Assembly and president of the Parliamentary Group. Normally, both the coefficient for the President of the Republic and the coefficient for the head of the parliamentary group, you don't get into it at all -- who are these people now representing the parliamentary groups and who is currently president of the Republic? Because if we were to get into this right now, it would really be unnecessary for individual representatives of the parliamentary groups to, above all, think of the parliamentary group so-called. The DOS, when they have the kind of president they have for their president, who doesn't know the debate is over in principle. Today, it tells us that the government, under the pressure of the Assembly, has withdrawn the previous legislative project from the procedure, which is not true at all, but Mr Tomislav Nikolic, by his amendment, which the Assembly unanimously accepted, has brought the government into such a position. Today, the government, actually yesterday, came up with a new bill, which has a lot of shortcomings, and it needs to back down. And now that you, so out of ignorance, and not paying attention, have accepted the amendment of Dragan Marsicanin, and all that we, as MPs of the SRS, wanted to fix with quality amendments, you didn't, that's your business and that's your responsibility, that is, the irresponsibility, but it's best that this law be withdrawn from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8936	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 52 MPs, against 105, with three abstentions, did not vote 23, a total of 183. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Srboljub Zivanovic and Aleksandar Vukic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8937	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the context of the Government, it is said that only harmonised coefficients, i.e. most frequently doubled, were not significant changes to the Labour Law in the state bodies. I would merely point out one drastic indifference, or inaccuracy in such a sentence, for the simple reason that, in time under that law, judges of the district court and deputy district attorneys had the same coefficient as the President of the Court of Commerce. According to this text of the law, this no longer comes as a conclusion, and for our vague reasons it has changed. I'm here, in this member of the law, just trying to point out one illogicality, something that I think the DOS majority will agree with, and I'm guessing it won't be controversial. Namely, why would the President of the Court of Commerce be given a higher coefficient than the President of the Permanent Working Body of the National Assembly, and especially when you have in mind that your amendments, your amendments, are something that has become an integral part of this law, are given even wider powers, even greater prerogatives of the authorities in the hands of the permanent working bodies of the National Assembly, than they normally do, so it is only illogical that this coefficient is higher. Of course, for those who have not understood, who do not know or understand, it is understood that the President of the Republic is the highest in the executive power. In our country, it is the highest not only legal principle, for those who have never had a relationship, although there is a bicepical executive power in our country, but also in the principle of legitimacy, because it has been chosen by direct elections, but because of the nature of the work and because of the constitutional provisions itself, it should not have more than half the index point of receiving more than the others, which we have talked about here. That is just enough to clarify what has just been said, and some MPs did not understand the ruling majority. So, the question arises -- why would the President of the Court of Commerce (in line with the Republic's public prosecutor, because of the specific nature, because of his need to perform such a significant state office, specific relations in society), have a higher coefficient, not only than the MPs, deputy president of parliamentary groups, but also from the president of the parliamentary group, the Supreme Court judge, the president of the permanent working body in the National Assembly? I don't think there's any logical principle to correcting confusion in a case like this we can come to. I think the government has made a mistake here, and I think this amendment should be accepted, which does not represent any significant, fundamental change, except, I think, somewhat corrects the illogicality in the government's proposal, and I am confident, and I believe that the MP's DOS will accept most of this amendment, if someone really wanted to hear what I was talking about by the government's representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8938	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word Mr. Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8939	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment essentially points to one illogicality that appears in this member of the law. The problem is, the problem is that you haven't appointed a official in the executive government -- which is his pandan in the legislative and his pandan in the judicial authority. For example, for an executive minister, a pandan in the legislative authority can only be the head of the working body of the Assembly, whether it is committees, whether it is parliamentary groups. It's his pandan, and in the judiciary, his pandan can be the Supreme Court's judge, if the Supreme Court president is a pandan to the Prime Minister and the National Assembly president, and they must be even by that logic. And you tend to place the executive authorities above the judicial and legislative authorities, which is also against the constitution. It is impossible for the minister to have a higher salary than the head of the working body of the Assembly, either from the Supreme Judge or from the Constitutional Court. It can't. What does the minister deserve? Is it because he's so important in his eyes? No, I don't. It makes sense, you've evened it out with the Constitutional Court judge, and you're not with the Supreme Court judge. You had to even it out with the Supreme Court judge. You must not make such a distinction between the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, since these two parallel bodies are equally important in the structure of the judicial authority. There is no authority or subordination among them. There's no hierarchical subordination among them. You can't complain about the Supreme Court verdict, the Constitutional Court. Nor can you appeal to the Constitutional Court's decision, the Supreme Court. I guess that makes sense. I thought the Minister of Justice was a doctor of legal science, but we should question that now. So here, it should also be agreed that certain authorities in various authorities are even and on this basis, in order to draw the conclusion that all three branches of the government are equal, not that the executive power is above all others. From the President of the Republic to the next, you tendently appoint executive authorities far above the legislative and judicial authority. As the President of the Republic must not be ranked before the President of the National Assembly and the President of the Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court, so the other officials must not be ranked above. Of course, I'm here not to increase the coefficients, but to reduce the coefficients where you've gone too far and to make it bearable.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8940	The People's Messenger Kovacevic has the word, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8941	Mr. President, I would like to point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure because you just gave Mr. Seselj your word, and before that you called on the MPs to declare the amendment, to turn on the electronic system, the vote began, and then you interrupted the vote to give the word to Mr. Seselj. I think it's done to hurt the Rules of Procedure, completely similar to yesterday's when you prevented a vote on my proposal because it was advertised that he came in late, because you opened the debate. It's the exact same "pandan". But you gave Mr. Seselj your word that I don't know what time to repeat here certain things that have the sole aim of the Assembly, and the MPs disgust the citizens and to show us that our main problem is the salary of the President of the Republic, the President of the Assembly and the MPs, and that's not the essence of the problem to be dealt with by this assembly. The point of the problem is that the level of our economy doesn't allow citizens and workers to be provided with a sufficient level of personal income, so that they can live normally.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8942	You are now entering the controversy, Mr. Kovacevic, and in the discussion of the principle...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8943	Mr. President, by your conduct, you allow MPs to defile this congregation building. That's why.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8944	I really don't know what to say... Is anyone else answering for a word? (Stanko Kovacevic) Please state whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured. ) Well, then first, I would like to give an explanation, since you have concluded that I have given the president of the parliamentary group a word, since I have already called on the MPs to declare the amendment. I corrected my own mistake because I didn't notice in good time that he answered the word. I had a discussion with Mr. Zivanovic, who answered even though he had no right to speak, because his word was taken from him. I've corrected my mistake. That's my argument, and of course I'll put it to the People's MPs' statement. I ask the MPs to make a statement about Mr Kovacevic's proposal that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure... Please tell Mr Kovacevic from which member? I can't put it to the vote because the promoter doesn't know which member of the Rules of Procedure it is. (Stanko Kovacevic): I'm not sure that's wise for you, Mr. President (galama in the hall). ) The word has, unless it challenges Mr Kovacevic, Justice Minister Mr Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8945	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the very proposal for this law, it has been indicated that for several years employees in state authorities have been paid off beyond the legal basis. There was quite a dose of self-will. It's just something that's not regulated clearly by law. Then it was left at will or will, and that's exactly how this matter has been regulated so far. It's not the government's goal of ignoring the division system. It is not intended for the government to establish a monopoly as an executive authority over the legislative and judicial authority. The goal is to establish order. The aim is to regulate this matter in a unique way and to build a system in which to establish equal pay levels for jobs of the same complexity. The establishment of a single basis provides for the financing of public spending in line with the general public income balance and public expenditure in the Republic, as well as the maintenance of a law establishing a relationship between legislators, executive and judicial authorities. In addition, on the basis of the general balance of public income and public expenditure, the Budget Law, which has been adopted, determines the amount of funds for the salaries of each beneficiary of the budget individually and according to unique parameters. That also implies a unique basis for all salaries. In the event of the establishment of a basis by different bodies, expenditure on salaries in certain bodies may be carried out in a larger extent than the law established. This would allow the uncontrollable execution of budget expenditure, which would otherwise be covered by the government. Also, the constitutional principle of budgetary balance would be violated. This is Article 69, item 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So these were the government's motives. By accepting amendments to the National Assembly, the Government has shown absolute respect for the National Assembly as the country's supreme, legislative body. The government, and that even bothers me, wants to clearly affirm the free and independent judiciary as one of the pillars in the division system. Unfortunately, we haven't had one valid, modern law on courts and judges so far. The draft of that law is complete. There will be a public debate on the law in a few days. The Supreme Judicial Council will be formed, in which there will be no role of the executive and after the adoption of such a law, I fully accept that, I think, the issue of the financing of judicial authorities should be in the exclusive jurisdiction of this part of the country's government. So it's nothing controversial. But it has to wait. Neither is this law, nor many others, a holy letter, that it cannot be changed at the time when the law on judges and courts is passed. So no one's running away from it. As for the situation in the judiciary and these coefficients, I agree that there can always be objections, that they will always be dissatisfied, that always determining the level and range is something that is quite relative, that by no measure you cannot obtain definitive data whether something is absolutely well measured or not, but the goal is to establish order. I am simply surprised that some MPs of the current opposition, and yesterday's participants in power, act like rose thorns, as if suddenly they woke up and, in the past 10 years, nothing happened and now they want to idealize things -- it's all because of this government. Well, the government found herself in front of an ambience, in front of a break-in with an empty register. That's why budgets weigh in one way or another. (President: Time. ) It is simply a situation that has been extorted. The government, I repeat once again, is trying to find the right measure, trying to establish order, so that we don't get paid, like in the past, to be at the charity level or some miserable social aid.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8946	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For the vote 53, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 14, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Stevo Dragisic and Branislav Blazic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Do the applicants want a word? The word is Mr. Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8947	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have another legislative proposal ahead of us, which indicates more what needs to be done than essentially defining something and really doing something. The reasons for this are given more informatively - we need to do this, we need to do this. We expected this government to try to seduce some order, to define a lot of things in this law. Now, this law is some informational law, which shows more what the government is planning to do and what the government is going to do. In fact, we're passing a law that gives the government the opportunity to make a regulation. It's something that's a little weird and inexplicable. We've just heard that you're calling for a time of will and the will of individuals. What we will get now that we leave everything to the government, but the will and will of the government and individuals in the government, to determine all relations in the executive, legislative and judicial power when it comes to wages. What is fundamentally clear is that the coefficients are only increased twice, normally referring to the provisions of the existing Labour Law in state bodies. Double the increase, practically, increases the difference between certain indents. But what I'm pointing to is that in one place it has come to the conclusion that twice the increase is not reflected, but in the sixth indent, for the President of the Great Court of Commerce, this increase is greater. I don't see any reason for that. He is transferred to a higher instance, unlike the president of the permanent working body of the National Assembly, the president of the parliamentary group, the Supreme Court judge and the deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor. So now we have one absurd situation that the government makes a difference in coefficients, but it doesn't give any fundamental explanation. That's why we think it's completely unnecessary and that one unnecessary difference is being made.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8948	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8949	This amendment, whether acceptable or unacceptable, actually points to another illogicality. You, in article 7, are equal to the President of the Constitutional and Supreme Court, and you did not equalise the Judge of the Constitutional and Judge of the Supreme Court. Isn't that absurd? You must not go from how many judges of the Constitutional Court, and how many Supreme Court judges there are, so that it may be your orientation. (Vladan Batić, from the place: We did not equalize. ) In the third indent of Article 1(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: - "10.5 Vice-President of the National Assembly, Deputy Prime Minister, President of the Constitutional Court and President of the Supreme Court." Minister, read this bill once. The minister exits, and I would say by part of his exposure that he fully accepts the views of the Serbian Radical Party. Then it turns out he wasn't even reading his own legal project. How did you sign this when you didn't read it? The President of the Constitutional Court and the President of the Supreme Court has been leveled. Unfortunately, they are downgraded to the level of the Deputy Prime Minister and Vice President of the National Assembly. It's the devastation of the judicial authority. They had to be at the level of the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly, possibly the Prime Minister, rather than being brought down to the level of the Deputy Prime Minister or Vice President of the National Assembly. The President of the Constitutional Court and the President of the Supreme Court are equated here, however, the judges of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court are not even. That's the problem you'd have to solve. I don't know how you're gonna solve that problem. I don't think you're able to resolve it at all. As for the Republic Public Prosecutor, he would have to be somewhere at the level of the Deputy Prime Minister and Vice-President of the Assembly, as the prosecutor's office, even though it is an independent function, should not be in the same rank as the Supreme Court president. But she must not be so declassified, as you have done here, but must be at the level of the Vice President of the National Assembly or Vice President of the Government. He's not the vice president of the Supreme Court. He is an independent authority in relation to the Supreme Court, but this must also show the incomparability of the court as the main authority of the judiciary, in relation to a public prosecutor or public defender, or in relation to a lawyer who, thank God, is completely independent of the state in our system, independent of the state, and represents the pursuit of professional private practice, which is entirely in line with the experience of the democratic world. But you can't even introduce a public prosecutor as you're used to. As for the opposition of the minister of justice against the SRS, we were too short in the government and, unfortunately, we weren't alone to be able to fix everything that had to be fixed. But now we're from the point of view of our program, standing up the same way we stood up for each other while we were in government. Then it was a different balance of strength. The excuse that can serve us, in your case, is not valid, because you have not only an absolute one, you have a two-thirds majority in Parliament, which unfortunately we have not yet had. I hope we have the next election. What the Minister of Justice is complaining about, I understand his appeal. When they formed the government, they found themselves in front of an ambience. I don't blame them for being in front of the ambition. I resent them for making that fateful historic step forward, which they both pushed themselves and the country into the ambis, all of us together.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8950	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. 49 votes against 97, four abstentions, were not voted by 29, a total of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, proposing amendments in paragraphs 6 and 9. The Government and the Administrative Committee did not grasp this amendment. Whether the applicant of the amendment wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8951	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament and I have tabled an amendment to this article and remain with the amendment. Since the legislator is using the provisions of the existing Law on Working Relations in State Authorities ("The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No. 48/91 and 66/91) the existing coefficients increased twice illogically to use a second relationship when determining the higher coefficients for the President of the Higher Economic Court. that it is favoured in relation to the President of the Permanent Working Body of the National Assembly and the President of the Parliamentary Group, since the legislator of the law in the interpretation of Article 7 calls for already established relations with the Labour Law in the State Authorities and is proposed to be applied. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party argues that the system is based on established rights, obligations and responsibilities and does not accept paying classes from times of communism as a form of regulation of this sphere of social work. Payment classes have never reflected reality in practice, and therefore, these views of the government cannot be accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, many legislative projects proposed to the National Assembly have been very badly prepared. They're not well done, they haven't systemized norms, they don't reflect reality. As a result, MPs have the right and the duty to indicate that certain regulations and certain laws must be better prepared and more content and applied in practice. I am aware that a minister of France called on his maid, when he was given objections to the bill, that a number of provisions were not clear in the people. He asked his maid to read the law from beginning to end and everything that was not clear to the maid to delete, so when the maid placed numerous objections and the maid were not clear provisions that the French minister had proposed, only then in the second edition of the draft law came to the French parliament, he was accepted, and better enforceable. I therefore point out to lawmakers that they must make sure that teams that work as law-making professionals should indeed be people who possess expertise and people who will prepare a bill such as to be truly understandable to the people, an ordinary citizen, and let alone to MPs who need to be immediately clear and acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8952	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. He voted 41 against 97, one abstention, did not vote 42, a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Borislav Pelevic. We don't have a statement from the government, and the Administrative Committee has accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8953	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 7th indent 6. The bill, because I realized that it was likely to be a failure by the omassor, and he did not put the secretary of the National Assembly and the deputy secretary anywhere when he determined the coefficients for the calculation and payment of salaries for persons appointed by the National Assembly. Since I've seen that, I've suggested that certain coefficients be determined for them too. When I was determining the height of the coefficients, I was in charge of Article 47. The Law on Working Relations in State Authorities, where the secretary of the National Assembly was in the first paying group and his deputy in the second paying group. So, I just wanted this mistake to be corrected, which he realized and accepted and the Administrative Committee, who accepted this amendment. I hope the National Assembly will also accept this amendment, so that our appointed persons are included in Article No. Seven.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8954	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8955	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment cannot be accepted. The Secretary of the National Assembly cannot be leveled with the President of the Permanent Assembly Working Body, the Supreme Court Judge and the Deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor. Imagine, the Secretary of the National Assembly and the Supreme Court Judges being leveled. The secretary of the National Assembly cannot be even with an ordinary MP. He must be lower than the MPs categorized, convincingly lower, for the people's messenger was chosen by the people in direct elections, and he was appointed here by the Assembly and appointed as an officer. It belongs to a clean record category. I don't mean to humiliate any clerk in this way and calling the clerks is an honorable profession, of course, if a man performs it in honor. I don't speak like this because of the adage to the current secretary of the National Assembly. The aversion to him exists, however, I speak independently of it, because I have an aversion to the current Supreme Court president, but I am in principle pushing for the constitutional status of the Supreme Court to be implemented to the end and in this case. The secretary of the National Assembly can't rank with the MP, especially above that rank. He can't be even with the Supreme Court judge in any way, and then it's underestimating the judge's office, the judicial authorities, and then it's underestimating the legislative authority, and it really wouldn't make any sense for such an amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8956	We are discussing the amendment of MP Borislav Pelevic, and we have no opinion from the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8957	I must say that the bill lays down coefficients only for those categories that bear three types of government, legislative, executive and judicial, and I agree that no category of secretary of the National Assembly can be entered, because then the Secretary of Government, all the other persons and all the other secretaries should be brought in. It's about the principle, so that's the government's position.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8958	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think it is, after all, a single failure of the government to propose this law. The Assembly's secretary elects the assembly, as elected by the speaker of the assembly, and it is clear that it has been unwarrantedly abandoned by the Secretary of Parliament and must return to the list of those for whom the elements for receiving personal income are determined. (Vladan Batic: Why the Secretary of Parliament? ) ) The principle is clear - elected officials. The elected official is also the Secretary of Parliament and should be put on the list. Or maybe it's best if we just pick the government and finish the job without disbanding the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8959	I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 63 MPs, against 92, with eight abstentions, they did not vote 22, a total of 185. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. There's a noise in the O.R. Please be quiet. They submitted to Article 7 of the amendment in the same text... Please stop yelling in places. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MPs Lazar Marjanski and Miroljub Veljkovic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8960	The proposed law on salaries in state authorities and public services is generally bad, even extremely bad. The original version of the law was withdrawn from the assembly procedure by accepting the amendment of Tomislav Nikolic. The original draft law was so absurd that even the congregation majority had to accept the amendment. We expected this time that the government would really go before this Parliament with one quality and reform law and regulate the relationship in an extremely important segment of social life. Instead, we received a new bill, where only cosmetic changes were made, and in yesterday's full-time discussion of the inconclusive arguments we, Serbian radicals, tried to convince the assembly majority that the bill was not good and that it should be withdrawn from the assembly procedure. Unfortunately, first of all for 450,000 citizens of this country, who will receive salaries under this law, we have failed to convince you. Many of you have intimately agreed with us, but party discipline and self-censorship still won. And you voted to adopt the bill in principle. I could have submitted 16 amendments to how many members this law has, and I decided to endure only one. Teached by experience from previous National Assembly sessions, where you and the Priory rejected every amendment of the opposition, I decided to show on one occasion how quickly the law was dealt with by the government and how unequivocally engaged this law is, so it will not regulate relations for this category of people. I suggested, therefore, that in Article 7 of the 11th indent, the coefficients for the calculation and payment of the salary of the President of the Court of Commerce with the judges of the district court and the deputy district attorney. That's what I suggested, and the legislator of this law, meaning the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has unequivocally supported me in the light of the draft of this law. Look at the reason for the bill, and you'll see that it is. The proponent in the explanation says -- "In determining the coefficients, it was primarily from relations established between the institutions of certain functions of the Labour Law in the state bodies. "In the 1991 Labour Relations Act, the president of the Court of Commerce, the district court judge and the deputy district attorney had the same coefficient, i.e. they were in the same pay group. And now what do we have in this bill? In Article 7. The template, which defines the coefficients, i.e. the pay groups, these three categories of selected persons, are classified in different pay groups, i.e. have a different coefficient. In the light of this law, I repeat, it is decidedly claimed that the relations between payment groups are fully respected and that these three categories are in one category. As if the bill had been written by one group of experts and the explanation of another group of experts. I therefore conclude that the people who have worked on this bill and the reasoning of this bill are at least irresponsible. However, out of the government's reply to my amendment, it is quite clear and does what the proposer has put the presidents of the economic courts in a higher pay grade than in the previous law. The illegal takeover, the abduction of economic operators is under way and is being prepared, we have before us a law on privatisation and it is normal that executioners should be stimulated and rewarded. Here, let's take one last example of the Post Office.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8961	Mr. Veljkovic, I give you a warning, you know very well that you abuse a pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8962	The President of the Court of Commerce, who has reached a solution to the bankruptcy of the Post Office, is normally to be rewarded in some way by all the presidents of the Court of Commerce. So I propose that, in the bill of law, these three categories in Article 7 are equal to the coefficients, i.e. these three categories are classified as the same pay group. Mr. Martian, I didn't come out of the context of this subject absolutely, and I don't know why I got the warning. Since the amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of this Assembly are ahead of us, I suggest you must insert a member, where we Members of Parliament will be obliged to provide you with a written discussion, then you should perform censorship and tell us when and how we should explain the drafts of the law, how we should explain the amendments. That would be a good solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8963	In other countries' parliaments, there is a obligation for MPs not to write anything and not to have the right to read from assembly speakers. I don't know how many of you would be affected by such a provision, and there's no need to deliver your texts to censorship. That's where people talk out of their heads. Here comes Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8964	Mr. President, as an MP who first introduced the parliament practice 10 years ago not to read any speeches from this payphone, I would draw attention to you to learn how to operate that technique, because two consequences can happen. One is to spoil our device, which isn't scary, and the other is to start shaking your current, I don't know how we'd take it. This amendment is not particularly relevant because of the figures it refers to. These figures aren't particularly important. There are minimal differences. But it's a much more serious problem, which the government points to, not thinking. Actually, what it's about. She's not aware of the problem. In the structure of our courts, there is a problem in the relations of regular and economic courts. Instead of reforming the judicial system and having only regular courts, in the category of municipal, district and Supreme, which is enough to satisfy the basic postulate of the judicial system in the parliamentary state, we have the rest of the old communist period, which consists in commercial courts. It doesn't mean that non-communist countries sometimes don't have specialised courts. They do, but it needs to be avoided. No one can now determine the status of a commercial court in relation to the municipal and the county, there is no legal expert who could ultimately specify or determine the status of the Higher Economic Court between the district and the Supreme. A simple solution exists - a unique judicial system. Even military courts need to be abolished. Military courts only make sense under conditions of war. Military courts in peacetime don't make any sense. The problem, therefore, should be solved in parallel with the adoption of a new law on courts and judges. We can't do this on a partial basis. Whoever wrote this didn't even think about the law on courts. He didn't have that problem in mind at all. We've already seen that the Justice Minister didn't participate in writing this law because he doesn't know the content. Those who presented themselves as experts are obviously not experts. Here we need real legal experts, to work within one project, on all laws concerning the internal organisation of the state. So, a whole spectrum of laws, both legislative, and executive and judicial authorities, that would be just below the Constitution. Because otherwise this question cannot be resolved. Who can say this - this can be so obvious, as it pleases anyone, this I give 7.8 to, this 8.3, this is how I give it, Perry this much, Janku this much, Jeleni this much, but that doesn't mean anything from a legal point of view.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8965	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 52 MPs, against 104 abstentions, there were no, no 28 votes, a total of 184. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MPs Ljubomir Kragovic and Stevan Kesejic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Do the promoters want a word? He has the word Mr. Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, by amendment to Article 7, paragraph 1, indent 12, I have suggested that the words "Judge of the District Court, Deputy District Attorney" be deleted. For what reason? Because these two categories are underestimated in these pay classes or these coefficients, which are proposed by this law. Why? Because the legislator himself calls for these coefficients to be done on the basis of the Labour Relations Act, and given the Law on Working Relations in State Authorities, the judge of the Orcukal Court and the deputy district attorney, they were in the same pay group as the President of the Court of Commerce, and for these reasons I suggest that they be deleted from this indent, given that they belong to a higher coefficient. That's not a big difference, but the proposal relationship to the judges of the district court and the district attorney here was maternal to the judges of the Court of Justice. The explanation provided by the government on this bill says: "The government does not accept the amendment. Relations established by the Labour Relations Act in state bodies were the basis for establishing the proposed coefficients for selected persons, but not the only criterion. When proposing, the corrections of established relations were taken into account and subsequently carried out." Those subsequent criteria, or subsequent relations, can only be seen as some kind of revenge from Justice Minister Batic, since it is known that as a lawyer he had a lot of these disputes and that he lost them all, so these saints of district courts and district public prosecutors, and there's no point in treating judges like this. So I propose to the National Assembly that, by accepting this amendment, it actually returns to the same level of judges of district courts and district attorneys. Otherwise, this bill will experience, I hope, the same fate, because in the previous debate on this law, I said it would fall. The same thing the government will have to withdraw, because the coefficients, not only in this amendment, but also in others, are disproportionate and disproportionate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8967	He's got the word, Mr. Kesajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8968	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is no wonder that Mr Ljubomir Kragovic and I have the same amendment, given that the government has actually written one argument here, and has done quite differently. I therefore submit an amendment to Article 7, indent 12, for the same reasons, but I would say that here it is very important not to bring into an unequal position certain users, who are bound by this article. Which is why -- because it's very important who we're being tried and how we're being tried. It can also be noted here that the bill's proposer is talking about the application of this labour law and is calling for "the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" 48/91 and 66/91. If we look at that labour law, then we see that these members here, so the district court judge and the deputy district attorney are discriminated against by this law, so they were moved from the pay groups they were in before, and they were in the pay group with the president of the economic court. It is important that these relations and ranges according to conditions and complexity, therefore, in principle, as the government says here, are being implemented. Because it has not been carried out in principle, in relation to these two users referred to in Article 7, I submit an amendment to correct this injustice. Also, with other users, nothing will change, and the amendment that has been rejected, Mr Miroljub Veljković and Lazar Marijanski, which is essentially the same, would correct the injustice and thus, by accepting this amendment, would bring into some as much principled framework as the legislator, or proposer here, calls for the explanation he gave.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8969	Is anyone else answering for a word? He has the word Mr. Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment points to a misrepresentation of judicial office in the branch of the judicial authority. The Serbian government, submitting such a legal project, as if it wanted to challenge the bid in parliament -- this much, so much so, so much so who is more likable. There is no order in this article 7, and there is a lot of misunderstanding in Parliament itself. We just heard Branislav Ivkovic, who claimed that the secretary of the National Assembly was elected by the National Assembly, as well as the president. That's not true. The secretary was appointed, he was a clerk, but the judge was elected. And that is why it must not happen that the judge of the municipal court has a lower salary than the secretary of the National Assembly. That would be absurd, because he's a designated clerk, and this is about the elected judge. It is therefore necessary to learn the difference between elected and appointed officials. There's a huge difference, and that difference has to be made through this law. Where the election is, first, where it comes to direct elections, where citizens vote, the people vote, the importance of the very act of direct declaration of the people, and where parliament is elected, then where parliament is appointed, and finally, where the government appoints and appoints. The minister was elected to parliament, but the secretary was not. Every judge has been elected to parliament. And the judge of the municipality, and the judge of the county, and the Supreme and Constitutional Court. Why are judges not judges in the right sense of words? Because they're being appointed by the government and not elected by the congregation. They're a government organ. There's a difference. But, of course, there are some here who need a lesson on elementary matters to be able to participate in the debate on these issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8971	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 47, against 98, there were no abstentions, no vote was taken 31, a total of 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Pelevic submitted to the 8th amendment. We do not have a statement from the Government, the Administrative Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 26 MPs, against 108, there was one abstention, not 42, a total of 177 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MPs Slobodan Janjic and Ljubomir Kragovic. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? He has a eloquent MP, Slobodan Janjic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8972	Thanks for the applause. I think you're applauding me to tell the government what you can't. In Article 9, paragraph 1, point 3, I asked that designated persons be appointed in municipalities below 60,000 inhabitants and above equal in incomes. The business of local self-government is the same in all municipalities, so there is no need to make a difference in the coefficient for the elected person depending on the number of inhabitants in the municipality, leading to the favouring of larger municipalities and the possibility of migration of the population from municipalities with a smaller population in municipalities with a larger population. I believe that the elected persons in all municipalities should have the same coefficient, regardless of the number of inhabitants. Perhaps the promoter will, in the same or similar manner, classify the MPs in paid classes, depending on the number of residents in the district they come from. On this principle, lawmakers from Belgrade or Novi Sad will have a higher salary than MPs, for example. from kickinda. Because of such a relationship and such large population migration towards centres of power, they are also economically stimulated. By adopting this amendment, employees of state authorities would be placed in an equal position. Local self-governments with fewer inhabitants have been in an unequal position so far. I will give an example, the local self-government of Vladic's Han municipality, where the average personal income is 3,500 dinars. In the homes of the smaller municipalities, the same situation is. Doctors in these health homes have 30% less personal income than their colleagues in larger centres. We have to admit they work in far better conditions that work in larger centers. And their job description is the same. The same goes for educators and for all employees of state authorities. In order not to be misunderstood, I advocate that the salaries in school, health care, the judiciary are raised as a priority. Because in that area, it burned to the nail. However, I believe that the coefficients should be equal, so it will not happen that in Nis, in the labour market, there are 500 doctors waiting for employment, and in Vladic's Han there is an open ad asking for 5-10 doctors. The functioning of the House of Health has been questioned because doctors in larger centres have far higher incomes and no one will work in smaller environments. The government needed much more attention to pay problems for public authorities and smaller environments and to equalise the coefficients. That's how she financially stimulates workers in state bodies to work in smaller municipalities...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8973	Mr. Janjic, it's a debate in principle. We finished that yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8974	Well, you're not listening to me at all. In municipalities that are not attractive for certain categories of workers in state authorities... Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, citizens of Serbia, the government introduces royal titles to a small door, even for them will introduce pay classes. She introduced an oil and nicotine king, a rally and cocaine king, a cement king...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8975	Mr. Janjic, I give you my first and second warning, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8976	Well, you're not in the subject, Mr. Chairman. I guess I can't say there's a "king of justice and a nylon stocking." Come on, remind me of that, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8977	Mr. Janjic, I take your word. Please leave the pay phone. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vojislav Seselj called.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8978	The President of the National Assembly has violated all of us, apparently, the Rules of Procedure. He can't give both the first and second notice at the same time. (WHISPERING FROM THE O.R.: Which MEMBER? In the end, I'll say which member it is. Why are you impatient? The president of the National Assembly cannot give both the first and second reminders at the same time. I closely followed Mr. Janjic's presentation, which is extremely well prepared for all assembly sessions, and I could, under certain conditions, understand the decision of the president of the National Assembly to give the first warning. But for the second warning, there was no reason. Because he wouldn't let Mr. Janjic say a word between the first and the second reminders. That made it impossible to give a second warning. You know, the second warning is a more difficult disciplinary measure than the first warning. It's like if someone sentenced someone to five years in prison for one guilt, then they gave him five more years and said, "You're sure when you get out of jail you'll be wrong again, at the same cost of staying in jail." That's what the president of the National Assembly did now. He said, "For what you've already done, you deserve your first warning, and after that, I know you, the way you are, here's your second warning, so I don't have to go to all this trouble." Don't do that, Mr. Martian. That doesn't make any sense. I know you hate Serbian radicals. You're right to hate us. We are to you, DOS, more than intolerable in parliament. But keep an eye on how you act in front of the public, how you act. Don't break the Rules of Procedure so brutally. [[Applause to SRS MPs]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8979	I'll help the professor, Mr. Vojislav Seselj, it's article 101. Rules of Procedure. But he forgot to say it. I owe you an answer, with a note that I don't hate radicals at all, they're a lot of fun to me, it would be more serious if they were dangerous opponents. And since they're not, then... And if they were intolerable, they were. Article 101: "The notice shall be made to the MP who approached the speaker without permission (not) who speaks before he has asked and received the word (not), who, despite the warning of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda (i.e. number one), if he interrupts the speaker in the statement or throws it, or interferes with the speaker (not), if he presents the facts relating to the private life of other persons, if he uses swearing and offensive expressions (there are other warnings)". [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8980	Mr. President, I'm just formally discussing it, and I'm not getting into it. (Lowers from the O.R.: Which member? ) Article 102. Is article 102 funny to you? [[Laughter in the O.R.]] Here they are fulfilled, of all those conditions for giving the first warning, let's say two were fulfilled.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8981	Article 102 is taking away words.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8982	Did you take his word? That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8983	You're talking about a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8984	Let's wait until we get to the word-absorbing point. Two warnings preceded the taking of words. You asked me to talk about another member of the Rules of Procedure and I'm talking. Now be patient to hear me. First, to give the first warning, let's say that, of all the conditions prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, they were met by two, two, at most, conditional terms. I can't have two warnings about that being said. Don't play parliament like that. I'll give you a heads-up. If he had met all those conditions, there could have been only one reminder, so if he could have met at least one of those conditions again, there would have been another warning. Then you could have given him seven warnings, that he had fulfilled all those conditions. What does that mean? You deliberately told him, because you wanted to take away his word, you deliberately gave him two warnings on purpose, so casually. You could have made five warnings. You can give me seven warnings in advance for the whole day tomorrow, and not a single point in which I can't speak. What does that mean? If he has fulfilled one warning condition, then it is your fault that you did not respond in good time and gave him a warning not to fulfil another condition. If you had the patience to wait for another condition, you should not have made two warnings at once. Especially you shouldn't have taken his word away so easily.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8985	Professor, you haven't noticed a small distance. I said first and second. That "I" is a time gap. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: It is not about the time gap, but who said it "i") The word is by Mr. Vukic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8986	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, even MPs of the ruling majority in the National Assembly literally couldn't believe what the president of the National Assembly had just said. It's about Article 102. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, to which my predecessor was also called, but above all also on Article 98 or Article 99, which speak of having to be treated with respect to MPs. What the President of the National Assembly has done is not only the indignity and attempt to humiliate the MP ad personam, but the attempt to humiliate and indignify the entire National Assembly. The fact that the time gap for you is that you said "first and second reminders", and not -- the first, second warning, that's how you treat yourself, and you're seriously trying to talk to the MPs, and in that, by transferring insecureness, you're very serious, I think it's the most talking about you. Several times, I would say, for no reason at all, since I listen to all the MPs when they come out for this pay phone, I listen even when you throw it away and when you do it in an unreasonable way, no matter what, every time I try to call the president of the National Assembly that there are no different arches, there is no double archaic, and the example of the relationship with Ambassador Janjic was more obvious. He was told within two or three seconds two warnings, just as long as it took the president of the National Assembly to say that. The DOS MPs, sitting behind me, have concluded the same thing. (Jelena Milenkovic, from the scene: No. You didn't finish it. You're not even an MP. You're here against the law. That is what those who are messengers have concluded. So, as far as those who are MPs are concerned, they feel the same way. Whether they can tell you that or not, that's another question. I'm just asking you not to treat the MPs like this anymore. Your wits, your jokes, your jokes, your misrepresentations of those who think otherwise, I don't think it's time for that, or it's long gone. Anyway, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8987	I have nothing to say to you, since you haven't spoken at all about what you've come to say, which is Article 102. - disfellowshipping, or taking away words, than you've been giving grades... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: you did not turn it off. ( b) Mr. Seselj, do not throw and interfere with the work of the congregation. I give you a warning. I answer to your MP, Mr. Wolfich, who requires me to be full of seriousness, and you do not allow it. Mr. Seselj, stop throwing from your seat. (Vojislav Seselj, from place of business) You will have time to answer Mr. Vukic with full seriousness. I didn't interrupt you, even though you didn't say what you said. You have reached out under Rule 102, which is regulated by the Rules of Procedure, taking away the words of the People's Messenger. You spoke, giving free evaluations of my overall work here, of what you have the right as an MP, but according to the procedure provided for by the Rules of Procedure, which is to submit a motion for a resolution of the President of the Assembly. Please do it already. We'll open up a discussion and talk here. You'll also have a good number of DOS deputies to join you. Is Mr. Vukic asking the Assembly to vote? No, I don't. Mr. Seselj, here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8988	Mr. Martian, I was appalled by your statement that it was the exclusion of MP Janjic. Secondly, I ask you not to teach us what to do against you. We'll probably apply for your shift someday. But then when we assess the need, not when you want it. Because we are not here to fulfill the wishes of the president of the National Assembly. Mr. Seselj, you're replicating, and I've been answering. You can't be so personal in your answer. You can only explain your position on whether it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (President: You have reached out to the Rules of Procedure. Please tell me which member you're talking about. ) That member of the Rules of Procedure referring to your right to interpret advertising. (President: You don't know him? You're bound by the Rules of Procedure to tell which member you're reporting by. ) Article 87. (President: That's not true. ( ) Read that article. I'll read it. If not, I'll take your word for it, because you already have two warnings. You can't take away my word. I don't have two warnings. I only have one. I give up these words before you take it away from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8989	I owe it to the Rules of Procedure to answer you. Mr. Seselj tried to deceive both the MPs and those who were watching this congregation. Article 87 refers to the opening of a search of the agenda of each session and gives order to be given to Members of Parliament. He escaped from a pay phone like any brave radical, so as not to suffer the sanctions provided for by the Rules of Procedure. We'll be back at 3:30. [[After a break.]] Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to establish a quorum. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to consider the law in detail. Amendment to Article 9. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8991	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, member of the 9th proposed law, is in the area of local self-government and territorial autonomy, so that the government does not give up its principle of decentralisation of government, but even leads to the centralisation of the government, because it determines and interferes with the affairs of local self-government. I have proposed to amend Article 9 point 3 of the amendment. The bill on salaries in state authorities and public services "with more than 60,000 residents" is deleted. It led me to submit this amendment that the affairs of local self-government are the same as in all municipalities, so there is no need to make a difference in the coefficient for elected persons depending on the number of residents in the municipality, leading to favouring larger municipalities and possible migration of the population from municipalities with a smaller population in municipalities with a higher population. I believe that the chosen faces in all municipalities should have the same coefficient regardless of the number of dwellings. It means that the duties of the president of the municipality in a municipality that has 40,000 inhabitants are exactly the same as that of the president of the municipality with over 60,000 inhabitants. I think this should be accepted in order to be in the same relationship with all elected persons, regardless of the number of inhabitants. Here, if it wanted to be limited to population, only cities could be excluded, such as the City of Belgrade and others with the status of the city. However, all other municipalities need to be in the same position and will avoid the pay gap being drastic because the number of inhabitants is such. There's another problem, and it's a territorial organization. One municipality with a smaller population can have a much larger municipality and thus a much larger problem than the municipalities with a larger population and a less territorial area. Because he's probably got some kind of infrastructure, so he's got less problems about it. I believe that the amendment that has been tabled corrects this irregularity and does not allow the government to interfere directly with local self-government matters in the municipalities of the Republic of Serbia. I hope that the parliamentary majority of the DOS will accept this and vote in favour of this amendment that I have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8992	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. I'm closing the vote. The vote was 33 against 115, with no abstentions, not 9 votes, a total of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 9th point 3rd and item 2rd point, the amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petric. The Government and the Administrative Committee have not accepted this amendment. Does Mr. Petric want a word? He wants to, but after the Rules of Procedure that advertises Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8993	Mr. President, you have injured the Rules of Procedure because you have not put the amendments of MP Slobodan Janjic to the vote. Just because you took away his word, let's sort of forgive you, but because you haven't put the amendment to his vote, we can't possibly, so you can see how to get out of that situation right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8994	I'll be easy to dig up, but I don't know how you're gonna get fat. We just finished the vote and I read the results, and Mr Kragovic is the second proposer of the same text. It was that amendment, you just need to be focused. Here you go, Mr. Petrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8995	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, I have tabled an amendment to the proposed provision setting out the coefficients for the calculation and payment of the salaries of posted persons in municipalities. This is what I was talking about in the principle debate at the last session when we first considered the bill before it was withdrawn from the procedure. Namely, the government has proposed different coefficients for calculating and paying the salaries of elected persons by municipalities. In fact, all of the municipalities of the government were listed in two groups, with more than 60,000 inhabitants and municipalities below 60,000 inhabitants. The only criterion on which the government proposed different coefficients is the number of residents in municipalities - above or below 60,000 inhabitants. The number of inhabitants is an important criterion for determining the complexity and responsibilities of the tasks of elected persons in municipalities, but this should not be the only criterion. There are still a number of elements that should be taken into account in order to fairly determine the coefficients for the calculation and payment of salaries of elected persons in municipalities. I proposed that the coefficients be taken into account in addition to the number of inhabitants, the size of the territory and the geographical position of the municipality. In particular, the amendment proposed that the coefficients for the calculation and payment of salaries of elected persons be equalised in municipalities with more than 60,000 inhabitants and in municipalities below 60,000 inhabitants, whose area is over 500 km square, and which are located in a mountain-mounted area or border area. Many specific problems have been expressed in these territorially spacious municipalities, which are located in the mountain-mounted and border areas. Compared to the average of municipalities in Serbia, in these municipalities, problems are more pronounced due to the lack of construction of the road network. The problem of organised public transport for citizens, the problem of maintenance of the power grid, is a particular problem to provide remote settlements with conditions for the operation of the infirmary, is a particular problem to provide personnel for these outcasts, is a particular problem of education for a few students in remote dwarves. If this amendment is accepted, the status of municipalities that have over 60,000 and those of less than 60,000 inhabitants will be uniform. There are municipalities with an even smaller population, about 15 thousand. Dear People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment for the billing and payment of wages. And it was also taken as a criterion for equalising municipalities with 60,000 and below 60,000 inhabitants. I'm not going to explain that amendment in particular. The explanation is the same as what I've just given. I think I've given enough reason for both amendments to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8996	Anybody else answer for a word? Nobody. ) Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 39, against 117, the abstention, did not vote 15, a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 9th point 3rd and Article 3rd, MP Goran Cvetanovic tabled the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Management Board also did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8997	I have submitted an amendment to Article 9(3) to be deleted, primarily because of an independent expert in state bodies. The bill found that the coefficient should be determined by the government and by law. In fact, one act regulates one part of these relationships, another act edits the other part of these relationships. In the same Article 9th point 3rd paragraph, the persons responsible for elections in municipalities with more than 60,000 inhabitants will be equal to the level of salaries of MPs in the National Assembly. First of all, I had in mind municipalities that have less than 60,000 inhabitants and this refers to the municipalities of Medvedja, Lebanese, Major and Black Grass. Belgrade has about a third of the population of Serbia, and if we have in mind there are other major cities, such as Novi Sad, Nis, etc. with a large number of inhabitants, then we see that these affected small municipalities, which are underdeveloped, although they have the same obligations and tasks as these larger municipalities, which is where I think of the bearers of the most responsible functions. This detimulatively affects the frame which has been defined to work in the interior, in these small municipalities. This resulted in many small local self - administrations not working at an envious level. This is why they should be evened out in terms of status and cities above 60,000 and under 60,000 municipalities. But in any case, many municipalities should also be watched from a geographical point of view. For example, the municipality of Crna Trava, which has the smallest population in all Serbia, is even bigger than the municipality that is second in the Jablanic district. Therefore, it is necessary to stimulate these very people who are in these municipalities, in these smaller environments. First of all, I consider the municipality of Jablanic County, where Black Grass and Bear are the frontiers. It should also be borne in mind that we must not allow the creation of conditions for emigration from these municipalities into larger urban areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8998	Anyone else answer for a word about this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u8999	Yesterday, in the principle debate, I denied the possibility of dealing with the issue of employees in local self-government at all. So you yourself have announced a new law on local self-government, harmonising that law with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, and then here you introduce provisions that are below the level of communist laws of Titus's time. You measure the value of performing a certain function in local self-government bodies by the number of residents of the municipality, which is pointless. The number of residents of a certain municipality may be dependent on the number of councils in the municipality and the number of employees in the municipality's municipality, in the municipal administration, so more residents require more employees. And one official has his day of work and he does a number of jobs for his work hours, which is mostly prescribed and does not have to be strictly prescribed. If the municipality has a double population, it does not mean that one official should perform a double number of jobs. Then the situation requires two or three perpetrators. The number of residents depends on the number of perpetrators in the systematization, not the salary of an perpetrator, because here the pay is a matter of rank, it's from a legal point of view. From a political point of view, I guess qualified personnel should be encouraged to stay in small municipalities, not to invite them to move to large cities, because in a large city and a regular referent there is a larger platform than the president of a small town municipality. That's ridiculous. The goal of all mental people should be to demetropolize Belgrade, attract people to stay as much inside as possible or to go from Belgrade to the inside, because they are attracted to the good conditions of life. And not like this, in every place to make differences, to build privileges, and these privileges cause catastrophic consequences in the spatial settlement of Serbia's villages and cities, to move the population across Serbia's territory. Serbia's interest is not that all citizens in one city concentrate. It is Serbia's interest to develop a number of cities in parallel, as well as to make rural settlements as urbanised as possible as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9000	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 48 MPs, against 118, abstentioned one, did not vote 15, a total of 182. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vitomir Plužarević, Zlatan Jovanovic and Milorad Mircic. The government has not accepted this amendment, nor has the Administrative Committee. Do the applicants want a word? He has the word Mr. Vitomir Plužarević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9001	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9(2), point 1, 2, 3 and 4. Proposal for a law on salaries in state authorities and public services to delete Section 2 of points 1, 2, 3 and 4. In view of the fact that the proposer in the draft law has set a coefficient for the account and payment of salaries for elected persons at all levels of the state administration, and the coefficients for the account and payment of the salaries appointed, appointed and employed persons, it is illogical and unfounded to regulate, in the proposal for a law in Article 9(1), point 1, 2, 3 and 4, the category of persons appointed in the bodies of territorial autonomy and local self-government, setting out the limits for the calculation and payment of salaries of the persons appointed under Article 8. Proposal for a bill on salaries in state authorities and public services. So, on the basis of a still non-existent government act, which is another proof that the coefficients for the calculation and payment of salaries appointed, appointed and employed persons at all levels of the state administration must be established by law, not by government act. Experts who have proposed this law have failed in three attempts to contrive, i.e. to present this law as it should appear. We MPs today don't know what our MPs' wages will be, and how they'll know the people we're discussing here today. The whole law is problematic. We don't even know what the salaries will be in local self-government, territorial autonomy. There is already evidence that in the Vojvodina Assembly they have jumped out of some frames. I don't know if it's actually a frame, or if it's a will. We, Serbian radicals, are pushing for the establishment of benchmarks that will regulate rankings. So this law will be able to give certain values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9002	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9003	Ladies and gentlemen, here's the second day we've been trying to prove to the parliamentary majority that this law is not good and that it needs to be withdrawn from the procedure, processed, processed, and finally brought before the public and the MPs, with a comprehensive, complete law, which will definitely be governed by this area. The amendment I have made concerns Article 9 and its second position, which should be deleted. To explain this, primarily to the public, I will return to the previous two members. Namely, in Article 7. The law prescribes coefficients for elected persons in the state administration and the judiciary. In Article 8, the law stipulates that the coefficients for the calculation and payment of salaries of appointed and appointed persons in the areas of state administration, justice, education and health are determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by its act. Article 9 first sentence provides that the coefficients for elected persons in the bodies of territorial autonomy and local self-government shall be determined in accordance with the act of the Government, which I mentioned in Article 8. However, it does not say anywhere which organ, or person who is competent to determine these coefficients. In the second position of Article 9 to be deleted with this amendment, it states that the coefficients for posted persons in the bodies of territorial autonomy and local self-government are also determined in relation to the government's previous act, but some maximum coefficients, which cannot be exceeded, are also given. How pointless, for example. in point 3. stands - situated persons in municipalities with over 60,000 inhabitants, can have a coefficient up to the coefficient for calculating and paying the head of the district's salary. Imagine now one set face in the municipality, it is the head of some service in the municipality, which will have a salary equal to the salary of the head of the district, because this member, or this position, allows it. Given who holds power in local self-government, I have no doubt that these coefficients will be maximum. I appeal to the parliamentary majority here, given that no one from the government is present, finally Mr Jovanovic is there, I urge him to, while there is still time, withdraw this law. This law will only create a new revolution in these areas, a new revolution among 420,000 employees, as it has left too much for the government to decide. In fact, the government will now determine the coefficients for health workers' salaries, and for the salaries of educators. It doesn't say anywhere on what basis -- whether to negotiate with the government with health workers, with some union, or not, whether to talk to educational workers, whether there will be various strikes, riots, etc., some new concessions, etc. 420,000 people expected something concrete, expected a final order, expected one balance, one balance between the salaries of educational workers, health workers, workers in the judiciary, etc. But with a law like this, it's still unclear, it's all in the fog. So, the workers who expect this, they won't be able to know what their salaries will be after this law. One more thing, which I have already mentioned twice, is not clear to me, I still don't understand why the law is called the Law of Profits, not the wages, because as defined here, it covers everything that they earn already covered by the Labour Relations Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9004	He's got Mr. Mircic's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues have explained enough why this article should be deleted, that is, why these provisions, which do not say anything in themselves, in terms of definition, should be clearly interpreted in this law, not in some act, as stated here, in an act that will be brought by the Government, and we do not know what act it is. It's probably the regulation. We of the SRS could have suggested, too, that we knew that the President of the Assembly would propose such an insubstantial amendment, and we would propose an amendment, let's say, at the level of local self-government or territorial autonomy, the height of the coefficient brings the parent board. It doesn't make any difference. That the parent committee in the city congregation or in the congregation of the municipality determines the height of the coefficient for the appointed, appointed and employed persons. The same logic as the amendment to Article 3 that the parent board adopts the height of the basics, i.e. the salary to employees in the Serbian Parliament. How legal it is, as is this amendment. First, you did what you were warned of, you repeated the mistake. First, not to repeat the mistake of the municipality or, more specifically, what is specified by this law, that the amount of salary is not defined by the number of inhabitants in certain municipalities. Secondly, here you listed some comparisons for salary levels, such as district chiefs, such as the secretary of the ministry, and nowhere in this law, in any word, did you mention the coefficients for these jobs. That logic is even more so that, by analogy, as we adopted this amendment, we were able to make such a decision and give it to the parent committees in local congregations, that they also determine the coefficients, so, when it's already lawlessness, let it be until the end, if you want it to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9006	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 50, against 123 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 9th point 4th of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, nor has the Administrative Committee. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9007	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS have pointed out the illogicalness and inadmissibility of the proposed solutions in Article 9 that are forecasting, among other things, the 4th classification of officials in local self-government in different ways. I am staying with this amendment and I propose to delete indent 4, attitude 9, because in Serbia, as SRS MPs have indicated, salaries in all municipalities in local self-government, elected and appointed persons should be even and should be the same, for those reasons that the SRS MPs have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9008	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 47, against 121 abstentions, there were no votes, not 16 votes, 184 MPs voted in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 9, Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by MP Bozidar Vujic, but the amendment essentially refers to position 1. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Administrative Committee has also. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9009	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9, item 1, points 1 and 2. I guess Mr. President didn't understand, but that's his problem. The amendment sets out the text changes it makes to the proposed legislative project. I think these text changes are essential. Why is that? The answer to that lies in the simple fact that this is the third version of this legal project and it doesn't seem to be according to that folk's "third happiness". Maybe for the government, maybe for the DOS majority, but that DOS majority, you'll soon see that they'll see that "third happiness". I am not threatening, but I am talking about that rebellion that can be expected from at least 400,000 employees in Serbia who will feel that expertise, that expertise through this extremely transparent law. He's what he is. He is driven by haste, he is driven by the speed the government is asking to bring today because its application has been wanted since 1.07.2001. Because of that speed, expertise was lost, expertise was lost. What are the fundamental changes I offer through this amendment in relation to the proposed legislative project? In the whole of attitude 1, not only in the proposed text for points 1 and 2, but even for points 3 and 4 may be common, the Government has an unambiguous position. In points 1 and 2, in particular point 1, for elected persons in the bodies of territorial autonomy, well, even in the city of Belgrade, the starting basis is the coefficient for calculating the salaries of the person in those bodies, compared to the vice-president of the National Assembly. In point 2, for elected persons in other cities, the starting base is no longer the vice-president of the National Assembly, but the chairman of the Assembly's board. And in points 3 and 4 where the municipalities are spoken of, there is again a strange government criterion where it says... "a population of up to 60,000 and below 60,000." And the government didn't know what that 60 grand meant, either, because it's probably used as a starting point of the 1991 census. The fact that the situation is probably different in other municipalities now, Vladui is not interested. And besides, as the government is, it's a good thing he didn't propose a 1931 census. In points 3 and 4 of these basics for persons in those municipalities, whether up to 60 or over 60 thousand inhabitants, is a national MP. What's wrong with that? The mistake is that the government did not have a single position, and the unique view is that it needs an initial basis for the pay of a regular MP in the National Assembly. On that basis, she could say -- if territorial autonomy and the city of Belgrade is something that is most important to her -- then maybe it is one, one or two coefficients compared to the pay of a MP. Why is the term Vice President of the National Assembly used? It is used because the government simply wants the authorities of the territorial administration, specifically referring to the province of Vojvodina, to meet the autonomists. It's one small concession from Chancellor Djindjic towards that sick Cank. No one can calm him down.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9010	I'm giving you a notice on the basis of article 101 for the violation of Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9011	From what I hear, you gave me a warning. I insulted Chanko. Is Canak a People's Messenger? You gave me a letter from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9012	You don't have the right to insult, it doesn't just say "people's MPs." Read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9013	Anyway, it's a service to the autonomists. But, okay. That might be what the Democratic Party wants us to give them a concession. I ask other DOS MPs who do not belong to the "trade" coalition on one side of the Democrats, on the other side of the League of Social Democrats and perhaps, some reformers if there are, do you know that, as far as yesterday, the City Assembly of Novi Sad declared Novi Sad the capital of Vojvodina. Is that the Constitution? This power violates the Constitution. Do you want to participate in this? If you want, you'll probably tell your voters what your intention was. Apparently, he's moving with the shops. They make concessions to autonomists.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9014	Mr. Vujic, your time is up and you're not sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9015	You have slowly set out to sell the Vojvodina, and the voters have not given you a mandate and, thank God, they will take you away for the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9016	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. 45 votes against 121 abstentions, no 18 votes. A total of 184 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 9 of the amendment by MP Borislav Pelevic. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. (The Prime Minister does not accept this amendment. ) The Management Board has not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendment tabled by Mr Pelevic. For 44, against 109 abstentions, the vote was not 28 out of 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Srboljub Zivanovic and Dragan Colic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Management Board has not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9017	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the legislator, when determining the coefficient for the calculation and payment of salaries of employees in the authorities of territorial autonomy and local self-government, identified the most to the coefficient established by the Government's act, and for the staff of an expert associate in the state bodies, this act was without any further proof that the bill promoter had unfounded the coefficients by law for one category of employees, and for other government act. The essence of my amendment is that coefficients must be regulated by law, not by government by its act. The government cannot determine the coefficients for the elected, appointed and appointed persons, nor for the employees of the state administration, health care, education and local self-government. The question arises - why does the government do what it shouldn't do or even does selectively? It is obvious that the government of Zoran Djindjic has ambitions to rule completely and that everything is under its control. For you, it seems to be a pointless division of power into legislative, executive and judicial. As a rule, such power is not a long time, and in the mood of the Serbian citizens, the end of your rule is very close, and then with more serious national representatives, this National Assembly will have to pass new, better-quality laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9018	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Nobody. I put the amendments to the vote. The vote was 44, against 122, with no abstention, was not voted 22, out of a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. National MP Borislav Pelevic submitted to the 10th amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. (The Prime Minister does not accept this amendment. ) The Management Board has not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Is anyone else answering for a word? Nobody. I put the amendment tabled by Mr Pelevic. For 45, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, out of a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Pelevic. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. (The Prime Minister does not accept this amendment. ) The Management Board has not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. I put the amendment tabled by Mr Pelevic. For 36, against 121, two abstentions, 29 did not vote, out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. National MP Borislav Pelevic submitted to the 12th amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. (The Prime Minister does not accept this amendment. ) The Management Board has not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He doesn't want to. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendment tabled by Mr Pelevic. For 38, against 120, there were no abstentions, no 30 votes, of a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Mucic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Management Board has not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not in the O.R. Does anyone else want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I am putting on the vote of the amendments submitted by Mr Ljubomir Mucic. For 46, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote 21, out of a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Branislav Blažic, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Borislav Pelevic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Management Board has not adopted this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? He wants to. ) The word is Mr Branislav Blažić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9019	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment reads, "Article 14. The draft law on salaries in state authorities and public services is deleted as a whole." I'll read that article to you 14th. It reads: "If, by the date of entry into force of this law, a supplement is paid in the name of the regress for the use of the annual vacation for 2001, the billing and payment of salaries under the provisions of this law and of the government's act of Article 8 of this Act shall be reduced in proportion to the total amount of the regress paid." So it's projected to take it down proportionally to people who have been regressed to the adoption of this law, to have it abolished by the end of the year. It's one retroactive application that doesn't make sense here. The explanation of why this amendment is rejected, from the Government, reads: "Being in certain public services and units of local self-government, the payment of the regress for the use of annual vacations, if such an amendment were accepted, would lead to the unfavourable position of those employees who did not receive the regress, above all employees.... "and so on. I don't think this explanation stands. There are more reasons why the biovay amendment should have been accepted because of retroactive application, because obviously we have people who would think that life starts with their coming to power and always have one desire, to retroactively apply some laws. It's psychopathology, they want to rule at a time when they weren't in power, and that's something that has to be avoided anyway, because what's going to happen when this morbid law that you've adopted begins the second power of the daukids in that time of yours. I don't think there's gonna be any damage to the workers who didn't get a regression. They're going to get that regression anyway, and these people who got the regression shouldn't be taken away and taken off the salary right now. If that makes any sense, then we need to see who's been getting some less pay than that salary they're about to have under this new law, and then we need to add to this salary for these six months, which they're going to get. It means that the difference now, to correct the wrongs, is making up for it, given that it has a lower salary than before. If he had a higher salary, now let's take him down to correct the injustice, why did he have a higher salary than those who had a lower salary? I think it's one stupid thing, why would people who got that regression get off in the next six months?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9020	The word has Dragoljub Stamenkovic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbian Radical Party MP Branislav Blazic explained the essence of the bill's proposal and the essence of the amendments we submitted in the joint text. I'd just point out that this means reducing the salary to those workers who have received the regression and that it's something that really shouldn't be allowed. Turns out they were looking forward to it for nothing, the ones who took this opportunity to receive the regress, and we're practically coming to give DOS's dinar, and they're taking the bank. I urge you to vote in favour of accepting this amendment, so that we do not reduce that category of workers over the next six months. DOS is the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9022	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 48, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of 18, a total of 187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 15(2) of the amendment. The government and the Administrative Committee adopted this amendment, making the amendment an integral part of the bill. National MP Borislav Pelevic submitted to the 16th amendment. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. The Prime Minister does not accept this amendment, and the Administrative Committee has also not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 40, against 122, two abstentions, were not voted 24, a total of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular and the decision on amendments, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to help us not to adopt today a law that cannot be applied, I suggest to Mr. President of the National Assembly that, under Article 93(2). The National Assembly, interrupt today's session in order to carry out the necessary consultations and I will explain it very briefly. Namely, by accepting the amendment of Dragan Marsicanin, Article 11. The bill, its first and second positions, should they be applied, will come into conflict with the amendment to Article 3 submitted by Mr. Martian. I'll read you article 11. "The elected, appointed and appointed person and employees of Article 1 of this law shall have the right to compensation of salaries and other receipts in the amount established by the Government act, if the special law is not otherwise laid down." Today, by accepting the amendments, we decided that the President of the Republic, the MPs and some others do not belong anymore to those whose government act will set the basis for payment of the salary, but rather to the act of the Administrative Committee. Since there is no other law that regulates, I think that we must decide today, or at the new session what will apply, whether Article 3 will apply in the section that we have adopted by amendment or will be subject to Article 11 which has not been amended by amendment, and the amendment promoter to Article 3 should also read that part of the bill. And, of course, Article 15(2) remains, in which some of the provisions of the law, which are intended to be deleted, are now to remain valid, and in particular Articles 6, 8a and 8a of the Law on the receiving of the People's MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, are to be deleted, and in fact regulate the matter regulated by the amendment of Mr Marcianin and should not be deleted, these members of the Law on the receiving of Members of People's Parliaments in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia remain in force. We're adopting a pointless bill that you won't know how to apply. Of course, you can always learn that we do not have the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia and that the Government will now decide for itself what part of the law is in force, but thus introduce into the legal order and legal traffic something that has never happened in the Republic of Serbia that citizens, that those to whom the law applies do not know in every particular case which part of the law and in which way it will be applied. Please, Mr. President, it costs nothing to consult with the Secretary of the National Assembly. That could be five minutes, and I'm guessing it's a legal consultant for the president of the National Assembly. You also have a representative of the government who doctored the rights and maybe he could say something about this bill at last.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9024	Thank you for your suggestion. Some consultations we actually carried out. The government and the secretary have been consulted. Let's read it one more time and remove any doubt. (Cite the apostrophean member. ) This law determines exactly the intervention in Article 3 which are the exceptions from the persons listed in Article 1 and that is exactly what it is. (To the objections of the Messengers of the people from the ranks of the Radicals.) There will be no problem in application. Last time there was a real problem, now it's undoubtedly all clear. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Does the Proposer's representative want a final word? He doesn't want to. ) I put to the vote the draft law on salaries in public authorities and public services in general. For 132, against 52, a abstentioned one, did not vote six, a total of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on salaries in state authorities and public services. That ended the second item of the agenda. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Single Tax Law on Extra Income and Exterior Property You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: Vera Markovic, Pal Shandor. Sladjan Mijailovic, Borisvoje Mijatovic and Velimir Simonovic. Lazar Marjanski, Tomislav Nikolic, Dragan Marković, Nebojsa Jović, Hranislav Perić, Slobodan Janjic, Stevan Kesejic, Slobodan Tomović, Dragan Tomić, Petar Jojić, Branko Ružić, Stevo Dragisić, Stevan Gudurić, Milan Janković, Miomir Ilic, Zarko Obradović, Zoran D. Nikolić, Đura Lazić, Natasa Jovanović, Bozidar Vujić, Božidar Vučurović, Ljubomir Mucić, Djordje Mamula, Radojko Petrić, Borislavić, Dejan Mihajlov and Đorđe Mamula, Dragan Todorović, Cedomir Jovanovic, group MPs, Branislav Kovačević, Teodor Vlahović, Ratimir Svilić, Karolj Širčević, Karolj Kermević as well as well as well as well as well as well as a member of the President of the Krastrest. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic untimely submitted eight amendments on 8 June at 8.35 p.m., i.e. at the end of the deadline for the submission of amendments set out in Article 138. The Rules of Procedure, so these amendments are not to be considered. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9025	Mr. President, Madam Vice-Presidents, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, today is an extraordinary honor for me to propose to you, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a very specific law, as specific as the times in which our country has lived in the last 13 years. This single income tax law and extra property acquired by taking advantage of special benefits, Serbia is the only country where there is a base today, and such a wide base and basis for adopting such a law. And because of that, it seems to me, unlike all of those, at least those laws that I've had the honor of putting up with you so far, and probably many of those who will come into the future, this one simply has no economic background, but a deeply moral one. And for that reason, I hope that this debate, which you will see, and great openness to all those amendments that go in that right direction, which is the direction of justice, will have one fundamental, good, objective discussion of what happened, what hit the country, and in what way this law, this tax can correct to some extent, so I say, to some extent, a huge injustice that has been done to our citizens. This law simply follows a people's proverb that says that the greatest injustice is when someone of someone's own use is. And today, before you, he proposes that we apply this folk proverb to correct the ugliest things that have happened in the economic and financial sphere in the last 13 years in our country, to this day. And that's what I wanted to mention very briefly, because I hope that we will have more opportunities to discuss this, although there have been different amendments, but to mention only three things. First, today's proposed law is essentially an emergency law. Secondly, I'd also like to say that this is also a real tax and I'm going to point out why I'm talking about real tax, unlike someone regular. Third, I would like to point out that this law, that is, this tax, is deeply fair. And that's why I suggest you adopt him today after the debate. First, this is essentially an emergency law, an emergency tax. That's why he's single. There wouldn't be this proposal, there wouldn't be this discussion if our country hadn't experienced something that no country, either Central or Southeastern Europe, or Latin America, or Western Europe, has experienced. Indeed, there were similar laws, especially after every war, when they are born under such circumstances, war profiters and our situation is not so far from that comparison. I must say that we have encountered several such plans, here there has been one problem since the First World War, because of various extraordinary situations in our country, that what is illegal, as is the case in this law, what is unfair, whatever was done at that time, as it is unlawfully corrected. It is extraordinary because Serbia has been so extraordinary in the last 13 years that even what happened during World War II in some countries of the West, in some American countries during some dictatorships, it cannot reach Serbia, because it is a combination of various types of muggings of people, none is original in the sense that it has never been seen elsewhere before. But what's unique in our situation, it's exactly the combination and concentration of all these kinds of muggings by a minority, which was deeply connected, closely linked to one elite, so this law is unique to its kind, as far as we could find out in the legal practice itself in the world. So this is the answer to some extraordinary times, the extraordinary times in which our country was found, and that is why we have to apply extraordinary measures. If you look at what has happened in the last 13 years -- simply, a list of different species and pauperization would be too long, and in this respect our country was unique in the 20th century when a country lost 60% of its wealth for such a short period of time, which led to this pauperization. And the second component, the country that was fastest in the history of humanity in 1949, is uniquely left in a situation where a third of the people are below the poverty line, with so many unemployed, that we have people who have escaped from the country, tens and hundreds of thousands, and often the most valuable and educated ones. We have a vast majority of our citizens, who have become very poor, and at the same time there has been a wealth of a small minority. If we look at various types of wealth, you'll see that the base for one-time tax is a variety of just because they're unique. We have the use of gray money emissions, which was accessible only to some and not to others. We have foreign exchange purchases in the official course, while the market rate was different, and only one elite, and only close to the regime, could access foreign exchanges at that price. We've got foreign exchanges on advance payments, which weren't coming back to the country afterwards. Imports, distribution of excise products, have incredible events for those who have today received access to the statistics of the Federal Customs Administration, import, export, in the contiguous regime, use of the legal person's funds, which is not paid, prescribed public taxes, supply of goods reserves, compensation, availability of budget funds in a non-purpose manner, abuses in privatisation, purchase of apartments, use of credit for the purchase of abnormal, not market conditions, business of assets, when there was no legal basis, etc. Believe me, the analytical base for applying this tax requires a very complex and very comprehensive analytical approach. Because I repeat, you have an emergency law, an emergency tax, because we're trying to get out of an emergency time with him. At the same time, this tax is, and must be, one time, because we have to clear up with the past, and once, and in the right way, and at the same time, we have to admit that, as is the definition of DOS, the private property of the sea, and that which is acquired in the right way, in a fair way, is protected. And that is why it is important to note that this law only happens once in our legal order. He will be voted here, if you vote for him, for 2001, and he will not be present next year, which does not mean that the application of this law will not be extended to the next year and to those years, until it is applied, and in steps. However, as important as it is to draw a line with the past, it is just as important that our investors and foreign investors know that this country is behind private property and that behind what is fairly acquired it stands and will protect it. So that's one extraordinary tax, one single law, that's in front of you today. Also, because it is extraordinary and one-time, this is one real tax, and what is meant by real tax - a real tax differs from one regular tax, because, given that the property and income that has been obtained in an incorrect and unfair way, it will not be taxed at normal rates, but at a much stronger rate, from 30 to 90%, and thus comes the reality of that arrest. Because it will penetrate the constant substance of what has been acquired in an unfair and unjust way, and it will not be settled in some regular way, such as the situation, and as it should be, with the normally acquired assets and the normally earned incomes. As for the way in which we have this tax, you will see that in the very text of the law, including some amendments proposed by the MPs, and the Government has accepted, and I hope you will adopt them, we have also introduced some accelerated procedures, and we have ordered an accelerated process of real estate collection. I have a message for those who have been wrongly enriched - do not believe that you will stay long in your villas if you do not approach and collect what you owe this people after the tax base is established. The state will confiscate it. And next, you'll see by much, precisely because this is a one-time and extraordinary tax, and the procedure itself is specific and then adapted, not only for what we see, but for those who have sinned against their conscience and their people. [[Applause]] And finally, what I'd like to say is that this law and that this tax is deeply fair. Because, as I mentioned, if we're unique, he's adapted to this very specific situation, he's covered very broadly all kinds of unfair wealth, overnight, in our country. We are also very open to any amendments and several have already been proposed, and the government has accepted them. If there is some kind of inappropriate wealth, which has been missed and which the Commissions have failed to catch, we are very open to justice being comprehensive this time and that it passes. Thus, you can see today that we have as many as 20 aspects of this inappropriate wealth, because simply, in extraordinary times, even what is legal at first sight, can be so unfair. And finally, I want to say, and that's where I'd like to conclude, and hopefully again, and for the third time, that we're going to have an appropriate discussion, appropriate to how inappropriate those times he was referring to. Simply, when we came up with this bill, we were thinking, of course, about the present, but also about the future. I would simply like to tell you that, by voting for this law, you will not only send a message to our citizens today, but this is a very deep message and future generations, to those who perhaps in some, don't give God, again to irregular situations or extraordinary circumstances, who want to be rich overnight, breaking all the principles of justice and sinning over everything, your family first of all, and perhaps, even worse, about their entire people. Let this law be a lesson unto them: let there be a lesson unto us; let there be a lesson unto them, and let there be a lesson unto all the generations that are growing this day, which shall grow up, and in the coming decades shall be the backbone of our land. And it didn't happen again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9026	Do the officials of the committees want a word? ( They don't want to. If not, the first of the presidents of the parliamentary groups, Mr Pelevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9027	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Serbian Unity Party welcomes the idea of adopting a law on taxation of extra profits and extra property. Indeed, we believe that all those who have made a fortune in the past in a way that is not legal, that is, by taking advantage of special benefits, certain privileges, abuse of official office, or even some criminal acts, which have not been sanctioned, precisely because of this privileged position, we believe that such persons must be taxed by this tax on extra profit and extra property. We welcome the idea of passing such a law, and we cannot welcome this bill's proposal, since we think there are a lot of shortcomings that I would like to point out in my first report, just a few of them. I believe that, despite the fact that this law is really useful and needs to be adopted in one modified form, there are several shortcomings and the first of them is crucial. Article 2 states that extra profits and extra assets are taxed from 1.1.1989 until the date of entry into force of this law. Does this mean that before 1.1.1989 there was no abuse of position, privilege and wealth based on it, and the acquisition of extra income or extra property in this way? I think that was before and that this law should also apply to the period before 1.1.1989. Does the promoter think that after the entry into force of this law there will be no abuse of position, use of special benefits and abuse of official position in order to illegally enrich, i.e. to gain extra profit and extra property? I'm not sure that's gonna happen. No government on this planet is immune to the use of special benefits. My proposal is, indeed, well-intentioned, that the amendment responds to this law and that this period extends to infinity. I think it's necessary, because no one can guarantee us that the new government will not take advantage of the special benefits it has. For example, if a person today, from the day of entry into force of this law, buys an apartment larger than the one that belongs, does this mean that the provisions of this law will not apply to that person? It is automatically brought to a more favourable position than those under the influence of this law. So, one principled principled remark. In addition, it also coincides with Article 13. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of the equality of all Serbian citizens. The other two remarks refer to some of the benefits provided for by this law for taxpayers, or taxpayers. Article 9 states that if a tax debtor obtained income or property under several different conditions, that is, on a number of different basis, he can conclude an agreement with the Director of Public Revenue on the level of the established tax base. Please, who guarantees us that there will be no subjective approach to solving this problem and that this director of the Public Revenue Administration will not get, for example, bribes and that this person who is obviously wrong, because it has obtained a certain income, i.e. property, using special benefits, will not be adequately sanctioned by taxation. I don't think that's good. Although it is said here that the director of the Public Revenue Administration will have to receive prior consent from the government in order to conclude an agreement with a person who, on a number of different grounds, acquired extra property, extra income. I think it's a flaw in this law, and I think it also violates Article 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which places certain persons, i.e. citizens, in an unequal position. I believe that if that person has already acquired illegal property, then the state does not really have the right to give him any privileges and to conclude with him a contract on some of the benefits that he will receive when paying taxes. The same applies to Article 13, where the taxpayer is said to have the right to reduce the tax liability of 35% if it states in the tax declaration credible data. Well, I guess anyone who submits an application is required under the law to provide credible information. If he lists false information, then he falls under the law. That's why I don't think this can be regulated at the point of this law, because that's what we're really putting all the citizens of this country in an unequal position again. Because why would a taxpayer who's obviously guilty and who needs to pay taxes, if he listed the exact data, then he's denied 35 percent of the tax base. I don't think that's right, and that all those who have acquired wealth in a way that is not legal, which is not correct to the citizens of this country who have suffered for years, and others who have made a fortune on his spine, it's not right to give these citizens expedient circumstances even at 35%. That's also contrary to Article 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I therefore propose that the Proposer bring certain additions to this law, where all citizens will be placed in a position that is equal and where there will be no benefits for those who have used their position, who have been privileged, who have abused the official position and who have misused everything that has enabled them to do, and have committed criminal acts to enrich themselves, and have not been punished for living in such circumstances, where that position, which has been privileged, protected them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9028	There's a word from MP Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9029	Ladies and gentlemen, once in my youth, as a student, I listened to an anecdote about Stuck and Pasukanis. They were the greatest Bolshevik law theorists. They were told by the anecdote that they were saying that courts and state authorities should always act strictly under the law, unless the interests of the revolution dictate otherwise. Here we have one procedure that is not in accordance with the Constitution, not according to the federal tax law, and it would have to be. But the interests of the revolution require. Why? All the heritage fairies were decommissioned in 1944, 1945. Tito, his generals and his ministers picked it up. And then, over the past 10 years, there's been crying on Dedinj, and new fairies have been built all over the country. Came DOS to power, to Santa's all taken. And now you have to sort of redistribute. As soon as the government arrives, fairies will be shared again on Santa. That's the essence of this law. The law shouldn't be passed just because it's unique. This is a miracle for the world's legal theory. That a minister boasts that he has proposed to the National Assembly to pass a law that no one in the world exists. That's something you can't see. And that law is contrary to both the Constitution and the federal tax law. Because the federal tax law is strict. He prescribes which taxes can be introduced. This one can't. You did something once, you showed that you could. There's no Constitutional Court. You can do anything. And then the Federal Assembly subsequently changed federal law so that somehow yours who was brought in before time could be put in charge. And just because a federal law was passed doesn't mean yours is legally valid. Anything that's fast, it's short. What is fair and just here? Of course, any abuse should be punished. There have been all these abuses listed here in the law. But almost all of these abuses represent a crime. Only if those who have committed these crimes go to court and are convicted will they come to order and sanctions and confiscation of property acquired by a criminal offence. It's the only right path from the aspect of the Constitution and the law. Why are you avoiding that right path? Because then it cannot stand a provision that Aleksandar Radovic can settle with any potential taxpayer and say how much who he owes and how much he will be reduced and added. It's a provision of this law and it's unique in world practice. It wasn't seen anywhere. It can't be like this. Anyway, anyone who's committed a crime is punished. There are many former officials who have taken 2, 3, 4 apartments. There are cases like this. Here's one in Vladan Batic's party, Aleksandar Stefanovic, though he had to restore both to the insight of the then-president of Vracar municipality, Mr. Marsican.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9030	I'm sorry, I'm not listening.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9031	You should listen to me. It's interesting. What else can't happen here? No matter how unconstitutional this is, what I've drawn your attention to, you know, many have used credits from the primary show under very favourable conditions as a certain privilege, many have come to foreign exchanges from federal foreign exchange reserves, foreign reserves of the National Bank of Yugoslavia per course, at a time when the real value of these exchanges was 2, 3, 4 times higher. First, on this point, I agree that a detailed investigation has to be carried out and to determine who won when, in what time period. He can't -- ever since Milosevic came to power, as you would like, so you can paint Milosevic more on this bill. Anyway, over the past 20 years, it's an absolute obsolescence. Or, if the legal regulations impose a narrow time limit of limitations, in that time limit, obsolescence. Don't forget, under the federal bond law, all obligations are out of date for three years. You have recently voted (we were against), the Tax Act, where if someone is three years late in paying taxes, his tax obligations are written off. Minister Djelic came out here with this legal project. You now write off all tax obligations older than three years, and introduce new 12-year-old tax obligations here, since Milosevic was first elected president. It doesn't make sense. You've put Milosevic in jail, and you're still passing laws that are strictly against him. It doesn't make sense. As for the money from the National Bank's reserve, the foreign exchange, you first need to see which companies and individuals are involved. There's got to be a register. Well, social firms. Many social firms have justifiably received that money, especially the state. Sometimes, the electricity industry got to get equipment, sometimes the oil industry, for the intervention of oil imports, and so on. You can't punish the current director here now, and the former doesn't punish the former governor and so on, and there's no crime, it's all in the hands of the state again. So, when it comes to state firms, there's no basis. The state can't punish itself. When the state punishes a state firm in this way, it punishes itself because it is a state-owned company. I can't punish my horse, I can maybe hit him, but I can't cut off my horse to punish him, because I'm punishing myself. It's my fault my horse doesn't have a leg. That's the logic you're ignoring. So social and state-owned companies can't be considered. Can I have some private companies? Private companies that invested in production and received loans from the National Bank of Yugoslavia could not be considered because Governor Avramovic himself paid a billion credit marks in 1994 and then split the value of the dinar. He gave both private and state-owned companies from the primary show. If it went into production and it really is now being produced thanks to this loan, what does that mean? Seven years ago, they got loans, and now you're gonna take away what you think you should take away from them. He can't. If someone credited the store, if the privates were getting for the store, then it's really a crime. To get money from the primary show or to get money on the course of the National Bank, because of its commercial or similar transactions, it's a crime and it should come under the influence of the law, but not like this, but someone far smarter. There are some other provisions here that simply cannot survive, which you'll have to spend with kidnapping. What does that mean? A man bought an apartment according to the law. It used to be a few marks, 50-100 marks, as much as it was 1993. The one who bought the apartment legally acquired in a tenant's law at the time was buying it under the law. The law prescribed a value of 100 marks, and the salary was 2 stamps and less than 2 stamps, you can't give him an extra price. You can't go to the market today to buy an egg for one dinar, and tomorrow you go back to the market and the eggs are expensive, the egg is five dinars, and that salesman makes you -- give me four more dinars, yesterday you bought me eggs per dinar. Where's the logic? Is there that logic in France, Djelic? When it comes to privatisation, you and the Socialists have already returned the privatisation to the original state in 1994, the famous Djindjic law. Will you return to your original state again? The workers got shares under the past law, and you'd be taxing them now, because if it's a better company, they get really serious value and now let's pay the tax. If someone had told them at a time when they were buying shares that they would later pay some new imaginary tax that is nowhere in the world, no one would want to enter the privatisation process. How can you convince someone to go into the privatisation process? Make this precedent -- the power changes by the New Year -- and we, by your law, begin to kidnap these companies that bought our businesses at the time of your government. (President: Time) Could be another ten minutes, another call. As the power shifts, the fairies are taken away on Dedinj, so everything is brought into its original state, so the new abduction is created. He can't survive that law for that reason and he can't be in legal traffic. This law provides even a penalty for those who do not report, or do not report their obligations to these provisions, that they will be forced to charge him a fine of double to ten times the amount of the tax owed. What does that mean now? How can you do that? How can this criminal provision remain in this law? How, when it doesn't fit any of the other violations, first of all, the Law of Infringements? This kind of fine can't survive. This fine is more severe than the death penalty. Next, you say, a taxpayer who himself declares his obligations under this law has a 35% discount at the beginning. What does that mean? (Kedomir Jovanovic: no) How is it gone? I'm talking about the bill, I'm not talking about the amendments to Chad Jovanovic. Only later will we see what the amendments are like. You're here in the legal project foresaw it. So, someone who goes out and reports their tax obligations neatly gets a 35 percent discount. If it's an obligation to report tax burdens, then there can be no reward for someone who fulfils their obligation. A reward is given to one who does something right beyond obligation. He didn't have to, and he did. Instead of that tax you're predicting, he pays twice as much. That's when he can get a medal. However, here you cannot reward someone who has come to do his duty. If you pass the law, it turns out to be a duty. Furthermore, you have here the obligation of the taxpayer to file a tax application within 30 days of the entry into force of this law. Is the law clear enough to file a tax return? Does that mean that several hundred thousand citizens, who bought their apartments at the time, should now all be subject to tax obligations, so that you can account for them - you have to pay for more, you don't have to. What's the matter? (President: Mr. Seselj, don't have a dialogue. Go on. ) It is a very interesting dialogue with these MPs of yours who know nothing and are still proud to know nothing. You know, this legal project is very inspiring. I have to admit that. He'll leave a mark and in law science, I guarantee you. I was adopted, not adopted, this is what legal science will be called about. This is something that really deserves maximum detailed analysis. As for carrying out foreign exchanges on the basis of the advance payment, so the non-import of goods on the basis of that delivery, it's a criminal offence. Someone can't pay taxes under this law without being held accountable for a crime. A crime has a primate against the obligations of this law. What's a crime must be placed on the wallpaper before any other law is applied. That's the point. First, he has to be punished, and then the court finds that he has to return everything that has damaged the state. But it must be the result of a criminal prosecution, a criminal conviction. Next, you have another nebulose here -- when someone has state or social money, so trust, for example, a bank to place it, or since you don't have any fences, that applies to private legal persons and stock companies, and so on. Now you're saying, if the bank were to place that money at greater interest than the one recognised by the depositor, that the difference had to be compensated, and you know, then all the banks would fail. The bank only has the purpose of being there when it collects money from its clients and depositors at a certain interest it pays them, and then pays that money at a higher interest. There was abuse on some other basis. I remember the situation when various ministers trusted different banks with state money. There is a possible suspicion that it is also of some personal interest, but it needs to be investigated, to prove itself, and in the future to correct itself by the state concentrating all its money in one or several banks, but it will know exactly which banks, rather than -- how the government changes, as the government changes in municipalities -- so changes the bank with which the state operates. That's the problem, and that problem should be solved in another way. Then you have an unintended use of funds allocated on the basis of the solidarity logs. If that money was unintendedly used, it's a felony. We know that there have been such cases, especially in the Colubary County, that many whose houses have not been torn down have raised new houses thanks to these money. That was still during the last power put on paper. It's not dressed to the end, and it can be discussed why it's not. There are cases like this, and it has to be held accountable. Furthermore, there are cases that credits have been used in a larger amount than could be obtained, especially those used loans outside the market banks for certain purposes, for the purchase of apartments, for construction, etc. All of this can be determined and this must come under the influence of criminal provisions and compensate for damage to the state. All of this is what you've listed here, and it's justified to withdraw as a problem, which is justified for the state to be compensated. It can be implemented through the existing criminal code, through court engagement, in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, so that the Constitution is not touched, not to be touched by positive legislation, but by existing legislation. If you think you can exercise justice in this way at the expense of justice, then you're wrong. You know, every modern legal order is based on constitutionality and legality. Constitutionality and legality are objective categories that can be proven, and what you stand for as justice and justice, are quite subjective categories and hard to prove, are hard to follow under the legal norm and that is the problem. This law was supposed to work for a good lawyer, not someone who was burdened solely by political interests. You're, I understand that, a power that loves precedents and you've introduced a lot of precedents, but make sure that those precedents can be broken in your head someday. The precedents are very dangerous and everyone has to guard them and stay away from them. The way you're doing it now, someone's gonna treat you tomorrow, and maybe worse, because it's gonna keep getting stronger until there's a shooting. Here you need to withdraw this law nicely, and to activate that commission that you formed in the Serbian government, not to replace the president of the commission whenever one of the DOS officials gets two apartments, he gives his son an apartment, he gives his daughter an apartment, and so on. Well done, we'll back it all up. That and that got from the state apartment, and already had his own apartment. Don't call it because you know how to make it up. So all of this can be implemented under existing laws if that commission works objectively, because these standards of yours, quasinores, don't matter at all. It is important to register all those who have sinned against the law and thus become rich. That's important. First, to establish all the names, not by the grandmother, not by the uncles, that the list is published with descriptive findings, and so on, because the publication itself is a very significant sanction, and then to go from one to the other towards the severity of the cases and to the court to make appropriate measures. Only it can be successful, only it can be educational, only it can be useful to the state. If you exercise your awesome justice like this -- Minister Bozidar Djelic suggests in the Law Assembly, the Assembly adopts the law, and then the law ominously implements this one of his Alexander Radovic, then he negotiates, then I will cut you off this much, so much, they will ask one of them for money, maybe some real estate, from the third they will ask for who knows what and we have experience in these affairs that are going to go to the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9032	The People's MP Branislav Ivkovic has the word, followed by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9033	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, surely you have come to an understanding of the citizens of Serbia, as well as of those of us in this room, the fact that you haven't shared fate with us in the last ten years, and that's probably why you're wrong when you're talking about thirteen years. I know that you know that the harassment of this people by the potential introduction of the embargo and the introduction of the embargo itself in May 1992 essentially began nine to ten years ago, and the freezing of this people's assets and this economy in fact in the last ten years. To avoid dilemmas, the idea of adopting a special law on one-time income tax and extra property acquired by the use of the particular benefits of the Jedi that the Socialists support. And how they support it, even though they themselves are in the dilemma brought forth by the predecessors behind this pay phone. The fact is: it is clear that many of these activities defined as a possible motive for additional taxation are activities which are a criminal offence and which are punishable under positive criminal rules. However, there are absolute activities that are not included at all in the proposal for a single income tax law. In fact, of the five different categories of extra income, unfortunately, the bill promoter is defined for only one single income, which is the institutionalised extra income. This essentially points to one potential danger and one potentially very bad motive when proposing this law, if you decide to pursue extra profits, to tax extra profits and extra income created only through institutional frameworks of the system. And you know that you lived in a country whose companies and foreign currency and even ships and planes, in order to manage the will of this people, to freeze and take away, to introduce an embargo for this country, to abolish banking flows, to abolish the possibility of importing legal repromation and exporting goods; in a country that had to sell its goods with Macedonian and Bulgarian stamps. Then you know that this country had to have an area of gray economy. It is very interesting that the legislator of this law, otherwise an exceptional expert, as I read in the 12th newspaper in Europe, forgot about the grey economy belt. It is our estimate, and certainly many, that one third of the capital goes through legal flows, and two thirds go to the gray economy. If the Socialists make any remarks to propose such a law, the remark is that it is false. He only covered the institutional frameworks of the system and did not cover the gray economy. You don't have a single member to say -- this and that have 500,000 marks acquired in the last 10 years and has to prove the origin of those 500,000 marks. My dear gentlemen, if we believed that you wanted equality, that you wanted to tax those who had become rich in other people's coat of arms, who had trained children about the cost of the state, who had avoided paying taxes and contributions to pension and health insurance, who used the water and sewerage systems that others had built, as well as all other benefits for the lives of Serbian citizens, without paying for decades of their participation in it, then you and Serbian citizens would have shown that you had indeed decided to pursue those who were truly unwarranted and in difficult conditions, when part of the international community led by the US administration imposed on the people the difficult conditions of life and to resolve the issue of their bases in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, the idea of passing such a law is an idea that the Socialists welcome and are defined for, but the very text of the law is disastrous, very targeted and gives reason to doubt. If you already want to pursue an extra profit that is real in an institutional way of creating extra income, then don't leave it to the country's judicial system to do so. And you would then turn to those who, by means of the gray economy, acquired a house, for example, 250,000 marks, and did not pay taxes, or were cobwebs in their lawyer's office or in their private medical practice, so they have to prove where they got those 250,000 marks from. Then a campaign would be created that would be understood and supported by Serbian citizens, as many Serbian citizens had had a terrible hard time living. And you know very well how that inflation came about. This inflation was created because the Kragujevac flag lost 50% of its exports, and this is about Croatia and Slovenia, it would have 90% of the market. But someone wanted to destroy the former Yugoslavia, by system -- divide and rule. Therefore, the idea of passing extra profit laws would be remarkable and remarkablely realised, that we are proposed a law that will act on the creation of extra income on the grey economic market, so anyone who has done so should prove the origin of his property, as he has acquired in the last 10 years. A member of the government of the Republic of Serbia cannot report that he had 500,000 marks and has not spent any day working abroad. Then where did he get so many marks? So, the idea is remarkable only isn't properly implemented. Because in this law, you're chasing something that belongs to the so-called. institutional extra income, something that was created only in the legal state bodies of the banking system. If it was bad at the time, it could be punished by criminal law, and if you want to take it with you, then you're creating a thesis for another story. And that other story says this law is unsustainable. It is unsustainable because it violates essential legal principles, the principle of legality and legal certainty. It's a matter of retroactiveness. Then who's gonna invest the capital here when he's got that in mind? Secondly, this seeks to establish a single-party system by introducing subjective assessments and rights in the hands of the leaders and enforcement officers of the DOS regime. Because if you're putting it all together, in the government, that you're assessing it all yourself, whether someone should pay or not, then you're giving cause to suspect that you're doing it on purpose, that you can use force to some people, and others to be cooperative. Furthermore, this law is inconsistencies. It also comes from some of the regulations being incorrect. So who's the one who has the right to judge it and make a difference. Those who have failed to comply with the rules in force should be pursued. Otherwise, who can be placed above the Serbian Parliament that passed the law and says -- yes, it was legal, but I do not think the law is correct. So they take the right to judge for themselves, and to judge for themselves. They take for themselves the right to assess whether the law that was in force, by which someone was working, was correct. So a group of DOS leaders in the Serbian government gathers together and says -- the 1995 law is, it was valid, the man was working under the applicable law, but we don't think he was correct. Is that justice, is that legality? As a result, there are no real frameworks for comprehensive and automatic law enforcement. The result is this: due to lack of automation, it is reasonable to assume that there will be selectivity and arbitration in the application of the law, which can be translated directly into citizens a very recognizable term - party resemblance and revenge. There's obviously a rabbit in that bush when it comes to the text of the law. To repeat, the Socialists absolutely support the idea of passing a law on taxation of extra profits, but this idea must be comprehensive, that it be a movement in Serbia that will force anyone who has created funds in the last 10 years, primarily through the gray economy and by participating in it and acquired a large asset, so they need to prove the origin of capital, to prove whether he paid the corresponding taxes when he created such capital, and he used all the benefits of this state. However, this law goes to another. It is taking away part of criminal law and giving appropriate DOS leaders the opportunity to assess the similarity of those who in the institutional part have potentially generated extra profits. The only thing that is subject to automation is extra resources for force and pressure, but also for forgiveness and co-operation with financially powerful individuals and businesses. And we're coming up with a fantastic position. They are the ones who, past the legal systems, have made extra profits in the institutional part to assess who is guilty, who is rightly, who is like and who is not, then the rich individuals, not to say now companies, will be in a position to constantly co-operate and work with DOS participants. Why is that? Because the methodology for determining and quantifying cases has not been worked out, as well as many of the things that Mr Djelic has suggested, began with the budget, where the country has three billion dinars in so-called. The social fund, and today nobody knows what the criteria are for spending those funds. Is the congregation considering that? He's not thinking. Like 6 billion or 4 billion separate for energy, to encourage industry. Who divides those four billion, by which criteria. That's not gonna happen. So there's no methodology here for determining and quantifying cases, and that methodology isn't worked out. Who's going to work it out? The one who decides. So, cadiya's suing you, cadiya's judging you. Now one part, which is related to the knowledge of the economy -- the similarity between the CKKKJ Executive Bureau, which launched a similar action in 1972, and DOS politburo is obvious. Because DOS uses categories of socialist goods in this bill, such as income, extra income and extra profit. To remind ourselves, socialist self-government - economic relations did not know the categories of extra profits and profits, but they knew the categories of extra income, income and extra profits. Perhaps that is why you refer only to this previous period, which began 1. 1989, according to you. I'm saying, it started the moment this country's first assets, individuals and businesses were frozen in American banks, and you're not asking for it to be defrosted today. But I have to say that the truth is just the other way around -- it's just a period that broke up with the mentioned categories of the socialist self-government system, started the transition, which is still going on, introduced parliamentary democracy, market economy, and affirmations, among other things, private property, and about the properties of different forms. This is the period since 1990, when a multi-party system was introduced, when a multi-party first assembly was formed, this is the period when private property and how it jumped. Nearly 400,000 companies, small, medium and large, are private. So there's 10 years behind us of a violent development, no matter what 10 years of heavy harassment of this people, which you often forget to say, by those who invented the Markales, to introduce the embargo, who invented a lot of things, to harass this people. (Lowers from the O.R.: Theme. You should have asked Minister Djelic what the topic was when he gave a political speech in the opening statement. And as for the category of extra profit and extra income, I want to tell you that the profession and theory know the rationalization extra income, know the technological extra income, know the conukturous extra income, extra income based on modern market structures, extra income on the basis of the basic natural circumstances and institutional extra income. Unfortunately, Minister, you've missed the chance to really do a bill that would satisfy the people very much. It would mean a lot to the people if they really said that anyone who has had has to prove it, at least to describe how he gets the funds to have an apartment of so many and so many squares, a house of so many and so many squares, a production of so many and so many capacities. Well, then that would be a real story. However, you have defined yourself to punish what can already be sanctioned legally in the judicial system, to extract it from the judicial system, which still provides good resistance and is quite relatively independent, except for the prosecution, which is effectively doing, and you take it upon yourself to assess, without methodology, without criteria -- who has achieved extra income, how much extra income he has, how percentageally he should pay, and perhaps some, calmly wealthy, and wealthy enterprises, and to forgive, and thus achieve exceptional co-operation with them. Since I have another 10 minutes, I won't use them, at least for the time being, I want to say to those who may not have understood how serious it is to run the state, that the results of the legal projects that you, Minister Djelic, have proposed are catastrophic. I was at the Smederian Palace yesterday. "Gossa" almost stands. Many companies stand, business production is 10% lower in April. Tell me how much lower it is in May than it was in May 2000. Exports did not reach exports from September 2000 until March, and in April 305 exports fell from March to March. Thus, they are disastrous indicators of all difficult interventions in the tax system. Running a country is a very serious thing. In these institutional extra profits, which you have seen, many Socialist MPs will speak examples. What I'm saying is, you can't see in the same way if someone has achieved the rights of the primary show, or the right to buy 6 dinar currency, if they've developed one part of Serbia, developed small and medium-sized enterprises in the country, kept the population, employed the population, substituted the imports of goods with domestic goods, and gave rise to our production. These are a lot of serious things and a lot of serious tasks you took on yourself. Therefore, we are for this idea, but the text is disastrous, and we will vote against it. However, if our amendments are accepted, we will vote for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9034	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9035	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, seems to me that, at the shortest, a comment of what has been said so far, in support of or against the bill we are talking about, is exactly the comment made by Minister Djelic - it did not happen again. I tried to record carefully those who spoke critically of this proposed law before me. It seems to me that there is not a bit of understanding in them, nor a rational attitude, and, among other things, through such a relationship with what we are talking about here today, has confirmed everything that is the fundamental motive with which we are going to Parliament, proposing this law, which comes from our need to bring this society closer to justice. As you don't know who this law is going to apply to, you didn't even know how to stop all the things that led us to talk about this law today. You mentioned situations in which this law would be applied and applied to the Code of Criminal Procedure, while fully, knowingly or unconsciously, but badly, you ignored the fact that this same law on criminal proceedings sanctioned those two-thirds of the country's economic life that you spoke of as a life that took place in the gray economy zone. These cases will not be dealt with, nor will any member of this law allow anyone in this society to avoid criminal responsibility, if there is a basis for this criminal responsibility, nor will anyone from the MP majority of DOS support a law that will introduce us into rematchism and that will put our society in a situation where 50 years ago, when people were tried for wearing a hat or a coat in a closet. With this law, we are trying to ensure the elemental satisfaction of citizens and our society, which has fallen apart rapidly, while individuals, who formally represented it, at the same time had catastrophicly bad consequences. I do not expect that by applying this law it will be sanctioned to the extent that the behavior of those people who have abused our misfortune and the circumstances in which our society has lived has gained certain benefits that they must think about today, first of all, as a moral mark. If they did something wrong, they'll answer the Code of Criminal Procedure and we don't do it this time. It has been said that this law itself is a law that puts hundreds of thousands of citizens in danger who have apartments. But it's nowhere in this bill. Because there weren't hundreds of thousands of citizens in functional positions. This law will sanction only the actions of officials who have taken on themselves something like compensation for silence and head-to-sand for the policy that has been conducted in this society for the past 10 years. I will also read to you Article 3 of Article 12, which speaks of apartments and those who are to be afraid of this law: "The purchase of an apartment larger than the criteria for the assignment of the apartment established by the act of the competent authority by the elected, appointed or appointed official, functioner of the political party, director or member of the managing authority, legal person in the state, social or mixed property with the excessive participation of social capital". They shouldn't be afraid of house owners or apartment owners, but this law will be sanctioned by those ministers, those government presidents, those directors of public enterprises who left behind kilometre lists where people are looking for apartments. And they solved their own problems. And, finally, you have the right to say that someone can assess the importance of a single politician in the state administration, the importance of a person in a public enterprise, and in line with that, to solve his housing problem. But this law will see if it's settled the way it had to be solved. And, if so, there is no criminal charge, but it must be responsible for everything that is the accompanying circumstance that has nothing to do with anything that is said in support of the criticism of this member of the law and this particular part. As for the primary show or the situation that we're going to destroy social and public enterprises by applying this law, that's not true. It is the member of the law allowing the possibility of an agreement that is a member of the law that has been considered in advance of situations in which members of these committees, the Government, and we as MPs, will have to talk to workers in social enterprises, employees of the "Such" who, if they paid for everything that comes from this law, because of the misbehaving of their directors and business executives, would no longer have anywhere to work. So this deal will remain because this arrangement protects society's interests. But it will not be possible to agree, nor has it been insisted, when it is assumed that a voluntary announcement will free someone from 30% or 35% of the tax. On the contrary. We've changed something like that. If it was a practice somewhere in the world, it's not in Serbia. For he who is guilty cannot be freed from his responsibilities just because he has admitted such a thing, but he was obliged to admit it when he did it. So, we've removed the amendment here, I can't say a major anomaly, but the incorrection of our society. No one who applies in themselves will be free of such a relationship and such restrictive measures, because he has no right to such a thing, since he is obliged to respect this law as any other in society. I've noted that there's a question of arbitration. Apparently one of the greater wise men will be sitting, a secret committee that is not known about, and when it comes to the responsibility of certain members of the committee, then it turns out that everything is known. The famous reports of the commission that are allegedly under wraps, are strictly confidentially deposited somewhere, and are published in the daily and weekly newspapers. The Commission has 21 working groups. It's run by the most responsible people of today's government. It's no secret who they are and it's no secret what they've done so far. None of them thought of taking charge of the court, nor did anyone in the government think of it like that, nor would they support it as a parliament. The Supreme Court will be the place where the foundation of those who feel that they are not subject to the provisions of this law will be checked. The Supreme Court, not Zoran Djindjic, Kostunica, Batic, Duško Mihajlovic or Djelic. Not the court of this House. It was that institution that was in no way able to deal with these problems when it had to deal with to prevent the disaster we're talking about today. To this day, we have failed to make a list of all those to whom the law will apply. Not because we didn't want to, but because these last three or four months are too short for a job like that. However, we have reached all those who are the paradigms of the time we have lived in the past 10 years. No great businessman in this society, who acquired capital and wealth in time until the state collapsed, has been bypassed by the work of today's commission. I have a 50-page report here, and any MP can get that report. Everyone has been treated by the commission in accordance with the Commission's rhythm, and everyone will be absolutely sanctioned if he has committed anything contrary to this law and what we intend to establish as a system of values in society. And, finally, building a system of values is the consequence of this law, which we have to take the most into account. Not by raising funds, because these funds in themselves, however disbursed our society on the one hand, and on the other hand idealized in the image of individuals who have enormous wealth, cannot be enough to cover all our problems. What matters is that through these laws we build a system of values. A system of values that can be described in a sense. It didn't happen again. And whoever thinks he's going through the predecessors that went down that road in 1989, they're going to come across us like the first obstacle, and it's certain that we're going to stop parliament from ever dealing with such topics again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9036	I give my word to the first MP declared for the discussion, Mr Miroljub Veljkovic, to prepare Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9037	It turns out, Mr. Jovanovic, that you are the first state administration to remember to tax extra profits or, as you say here, extra profits. That's not true. We have many examples in history, many countries have done so. I'll look back on that later, but it's exactly what Mr. Seselj says that this bill will certainly enrich the legal theory and also legal practice. Dear Members of the People, I do not question the motives for passing such a law. The previous period is the period in which individuals have become enormously rich. First of all, they used their privileged position. The sanctions introduced to us by the international community and how they favored privileged layers to make enormous profits using these very sanctions and enormously rich. All we can think of is contingents and quotas in foreign trade. How much it gave opportunities for fast and easy wealth. A huge criminalisation of society, a huge corruption that has gripped all the pores of our society, a war in Serbia's environment, all of this has been conveniently soiled by privileged layers to build up their capital. But not just that, Mr. Minister. The state, pressured by unremembered sanctions and war, has gone all the way to endure it. So during that period we had the phenomena of primary and gray money emissions by the National Bank, the unrealistic exchange rate of the National Bank, the payment abroad by illegal means. At first dosed, and in 1993 hyperinflation. All these state measures were girlically designed to help the economy and the state survive. Thus, the primary emissions account for the financing of the sowing, harvest, military needs, residential construction. These funds have been used for financial injections with depreciated economic giants, these funds have been used to pay off budget users, pensioners and who knows what. But the truth is, these funds were used by privileged individuals through their private companies. Then the state allowed individual companies to buy oil, missing chemistry, military equipment, and all that was necessary for the state to survive the sanctions. It is also true that foreign exchanges, through their private companies, were purchased by privileged individuals. With these two examples, I wanted to show that some of these measures, which were legally arranged at the time, were necessary at that time and from the point of view of state interest. Individuals who used these, at that time of legal opportunity, are a special story and should certainly be taxed. But here the question arises whether the state will tax, for example, NIS, because NIS used its primary show and bought foreign exchanges according to the official NBJ course, which was depressed. Or, for example, whether the state would tax the PKK, some agricultural good in Vojvodina, which for similar purposes bought foreign exchanges on the official NBJ course. A month ago, I read in the press a list of companies the state intends to tax because they were users of credit for Serbia's economic rebirth. It was a miracle, People's Messengers. I'll list what companies they are. There's: "The Electronic Industry" Nis, "MINEL", "MIN" Nis, agricultural goods, agricultural cooperatives and so on. Of the 31 companies on the list, only one private one, and it took some minor assets. So the other 30 on the list are in that state, and we all know exactly what condition we're in, that they're not capable of paying any tax, let alone this extra tax. A number of them will probably go into liquidation after this privatisation law. So I agree with the promoter that extreme wealth should be taxed in the previous period. However, the way you think to do it is disastrous and absolutely invaluable. As Professor Jovan Rankovic says, I must point out that he belongs to the DSS Economic Committee, so you Kostunicas listen, Professor. Rankovic told the legislator, Mr Djelic, that he had mixed the grandmothers and frogs. So I can't get a warning, because that's what Professor Rankovic told me. In this certainly worst, in professional terms, the law that came before this parliament, criminal acts are mixed with privileges and privileges. If someone brings foreign exchanges out of the country to pay for the import of goods, and these goods never enter the country, that is, those foreign exchanges remain in a private account, it is a crime that is subject to applicable criminal law. There can in no way be any privilege. You're probably okay with that. Or, if someone on import goods doesn't pay customs, excise or tax, it's a terrible crime. It can't possibly be a privilege. Such people are tried, they are not taxed, and then the court takes measures, as Mr. Seselj said, of confiscation of property acquired by crime. This gentleman from Ariel laughs a lot and throws it around all the time. Madam Chairman, I warn you, he surprised me today, for the first time decently dressed. I've seen it here in my shirts, with sunflowers. I expected him to show up in his swimsuits and in his flip-flops here. (President: Mr Veljkovic, please return to the topic) In this proposal of the law, you have a purposeless spending of the daily solidarity, abuse of privatisation and many other such things that the government baptizes as privileges. However, these are crystal clear crimes that are sanctioned by criminal law. What did the government want? That by this law criminals amnesty for these crimes they have committed, that they are charged with taxes and turkey dots are not valid. For this claim, it gives me, in particular, the right to a provision in this bill that gives the debtor the opportunity to make a tax deal with the government. Such nonsense certainly does not exist in any tax system in the world, or deals with large Serbian bosses have already been made. It's just these two ways. There's still a lot of nonsense in this bill, like the state, if the taxpayer doesn't settle the tax on this basis in 15 days, will take over part of the company or the entire company. Imagine now the poor "Electron Industries" or "MIN" - Nis, the state will now take over the "Electron Industry" or "MIN" - Nis. They can't wait to be taken over. What does the state get by that? They'll get thousands of workers on their backs. That's one full of nonsense, absolute nonsense. In 15 days, such companies can pay extra profits, and there are probably a lot of private firms that will succumb under this law, which I am responsible for telling you they don't have the means to give. You'll take one, I'll say, of a private textile factory because it certainly won't pay these tax rates. The proposed law is extremely unprofessional. Practically, it is inconclusive, i.e. to the powers of the state, providing the possibility of a naked volunteerism in its implementation and harsh rematchism, regardless of what Mr Jovanovic says will not be. The legal provisions themselves provide the possibility of a harsh rematchism on principle - if you run, we won't charge you taxes, and if you don't run, we'll take your company, such a message is given to the bosses. On the other hand, this law is also a kind of state racket, whether you admit it or not, to the market economy. Whoever guarantees, for example, ino-investors, that in a year or so, two of them won't think of taxing some of you again, at that time, extra profits. To recapitulate, it is certainly necessary to tax privileged individuals, who, with the help of privileges in the previous period, have become extremely rich. Mr. Minister, many states have made similar moves throughout history. You've shown one bill of law by one of those states. It means you used parallel legislation. (President: Time. I'll remind you, which you probably know, that De Gaulle, after World War II, taxed war profits. You probably know that. It was also done by pre-war Yugoslavia by law of 1923, the so-called Law on taxation of latent reserves. And you probably know that. A lot of other countries have done it. But it was done in the only possible way, Mr. Minister, by taxing the growth of net assets. For example, the company and that is, for example, the day, you took the base year 1989, 31.12.1989, had a net asset per balance so much and so much. The average profit rate in 1989 was 10% in Serbia. The company on 31.12.2000 has so much net assets, as shown in the balance sheet. So all that's beyond the average profit rate is simply subject to tax. This is how it is done in all normal countries, and that is how all these countries that have passed similar laws, especially after some major accidents and wars. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, that's how you tax extra profits. It's a legitimate, only possible and enforceable way. However, there are examples in the world that you've identified yourself for. Moamer El Gaddafi, when he came to power in Libya, he decided otherwise to tax everything. He said we'd trade money until that date and that date. Everyone handed over the money, and then he said there's no other equivalent. One hundred Libyan dinars each and that's it. If that's what you've defined yourself for, and you want to do it in a similar way, then you want to do it. (President: Please conclude. ) I propose that the bill be returned immediately to the Government, that it is simply so bad that we cannot fix it by amendment. He's inconclusive, he's just going to give people a chance to do it, to make a volunteer decision -- this one I'm going to charge, this one I'm not going to charge for.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9038	The People's MP Dragan Jovanovic has the word, followed by MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the people of Serbia were looking forward to a law titled - a bill on one-time income tax and extra property acquired by taking advantage of special benefits. There is so much impatience in the people that no law so far has caused such expectation. Unfortunately, however, the Serbian people have before us one piece of paper that is all but the law. He can be anything but the law, depending on how he's interpreted. It's for someone, for good lawyers it's a humorous text, because they laugh sweetly when they read the members of this law. For honest people, it's a tragedy, because they see what kind of power they have, they know what's promised, and they see what they've got now. For political analysts, it's a political pamphlet. For me, this is an election platform. So, you found somewhere in the warehouse something you promised the people in the election, and if it was still good, if you'd prescribed it, you'd have mutilated it to that extent that it couldn't be rewritten. You promised the people in the election, you created a black white painting. You took advantage of the opportunities created by various circumstances, you used opportunities to tell the people about his poverty and the suffering that the people had suffered, to create a black white picture of some people who were in power and around the government, some parties, that all of them were rich people, some of them unfair people, and on the other hand DOS are poor people, honest people, and that image managed to prevail with the people, and you got power. When you came to power, the situation changed. Now you are in the window, and now the people expect of you; there is a long memory, and the people remember what you used to say. Since you couldn't escape the election promises, you tried to move on in that rhythm, so, since the main story was bribery and corruption and taxation of extra income and extra profits, you formed a commission that was about to make some kind of list now, who would pay extra taxes and extra income and be subject to sanctions. But you made one mistake and not a small one. For the President of the Commission, you brought in a man who was a soldier, and the soldiers saw it rightly, he didn't understand it, you took the man seriously. He didn't understand that he had to make a list of some who were in other parties, that it was political persecution, but that man went straight and honest to make a list. When the material came to the government, with those who wanted to see it, people found themselves in wonder. They panicked when they saw lists of those who needed to succumb to the anti-corruption law and when an article was published on the front page -- many ministers of the current government will be hit by law. I knew that man was gone, but you panicked, you didn't know how to proceed. You have now found a quick solution, you have replaced the President of the Commission, but that is not the end. After that, you couldn't get away from the law, because you promised the people and then there was this ridiculous text of the law, meaning a law that had nothing to do with what you promised. You have now watched as under the law do not come those who should come under the influence of the law. I'll tell you a whole series of arguments. So, as the laws now come to you, you've seen the lists, you've seen that most of you, by your side or by your side, are from those people who have great wealth. No Electronic Idnistry, no Machine Industry, it's funny and pathetic (SIMPO) and there are no people who expect it. You've now suffered a great deal of pain, how to make a law, not to embarrass yourself without that law touching those you can't touch. I don't think you're going to apply this law the way you won't apply it. Why won't you apply it? Because you're going to put all those who are with you and close to you. The Socialists have no one to defend, because among the Socialists there are no more of them, because others who may have fallen under the law now with you and near you. So, the facts say, if we go from member to member, you've made a very ignorant law. First, if you wanted what you imagined in the pre-election campaign, you wouldn't have put an item in order to guess the administration of income with someone who had crushed big capital. You saw who it was, so you say now -- let's make a deal. Imagine a criminal law that has a member to make a deal with a prosecutor or judge how much he'll be convicted. So, the first member you've entered, which is amazing, to settle who's earned extra profit, who's made a fortune, to settle with the director of the income management, Djelic's godfather, came from France, to settle with him how much it takes to give him money. It's the first thing that suggests that you ran away from pre-election promises, that you have no intention at all of making the law the way it's supposed to be. The other thing is, whoever acquired the big capital, and reported it voluntarily, you gave him a 35% discount, because he was a lifesaver, so he admitted to doing it. The third thing that will amaze the public of Serbia, and it has already appeared in the newspaper, and it is also in the law. Imagine you from all the stories, the hickeys, the media, the newspapers, you have a member of the law that predicts keeping secrets of those who will pay taxes on extra profits. Since when do you love your former government so much that you keep a secret who paid for it? So the very principle of keeping it secret shows the citizens of Serbia that something is not normal. Until yesterday, one story, a hickey, a newspaper, and when there is and when there is no, and now suddenly the principle of secrecy. To be clear, the Socialists are in favour of passing a law like this, but a law that won't have a guess, it won't have a secret either, there won't be any forgiveness of debts, a law that will embrace a gray economy in its entirety, a law that was expected by Serbian citizens, the law that all the rich people would be put under the bat of such a law. This is what the citizens of Serbia expected of you. No one is expected to put the Electronic Industry, the Machine Industry, the Chemical Industry "Prahovo" and the others. So, Serbia expected the law you promised in the election campaign, and you gentlemen gave it up further. We've tried to make a large number of amendments to try to fix this, but this is how you formulate it, after everything and after knowing what you've come up with, it's not repairable. This shows your desire not to pass the law at all, because you have made a law that is not applicable. A law like this if we adopt, it's not applicable to anyone. Maybe you'll apply it to the electronics industry, and the other entities are not subject to this law. Therefore, I would suggest that, by adopting all amendments, you correct the text of the law, give it the meaning of what citizens expect, give it the meaning you promised the citizens in the election campaign, otherwise this is not even a cartoon of a serious law on extra-profit tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9040	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, followed by Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9041	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposed bill should not be accepted because it violates the essential legal principles, the principle of legality and legal certainty, and thus challenges the survival of the entire legal system. The whole bill has a return fact, not just the provisions of Article 2. 3 and 8, as stated in the reasoning of the legislator of this law. The promoter stated that only certain provisions, Articles 2. On the 3rd and 8th basis, with a feedback, he probably wanted to declare that the draft law is in line with the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, calling for these individual provisions with a return fact motivated by the existence of general interest, so that you could compromise the provisions of Article 117(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and of Article 121. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. These constitutional provisions prohibit the return of the law precisely because of the existence of the principle of legality, and hence the legal certainty of citizens, who must count on certain regulated social relations at the time of their operation. In fact, it cannot be approached by a single-krant taxation back more than ten years from the adoption of the law, because the taxpayers at the time of business had in mind then existing rules on income and property taxes, which they had to enforce and which they had implemented, and thus their obligations towards public incomes for the period in question cease to exist. Due to the backdrop of the entire bill, and not its specific provisions, this proposal is affecting already acquired rights of natural and legal persons, which is absolutely causing violations of both legal order and legal certainty, the principle of legal certainty. The bill is in general with a return fact, because all its provisions work backwards, although at that time there was a whole other tax regime for natural and legal persons. In the concept, it is as if natural and legal persons were taking advantage of special benefits, legal and illegal, under which they acquired property and earned income. In doing so, it ignores the fact that a subsequent comparison cannot be made, as the law does, for those natural and legal persons who have realised their income and acquired their property according to then applicable positive rules, which means that they have not violated the existing rules of conduct. If, according to earlier rules, certain financial transactions could be carried out and if those regulations were applicable to all those who met the conditions for inclusion in these financial transactions, it cannot be said that this objectively constitutes a privilege for those which are designated as taxpayers by this law. In other words, there is no clear criterion for determining privileged persons who have been in a position to take advantage of special benefits in their business according to previously applicable rules. Non-compliance with the fact that one is a situation where business is carried out in accordance with existing rules and that the other is when it is not operated in accordance with them, and yet that does not mean that there is no distinction between the permitted and the illicit behaviour. Each legal order makes the difference between the conduct in accordance with the law and the conduct of the anti-law and, consequently, provides for sanctions of any criminal nature, whether civil law. At the same time, political parties, individual lists, media, NGOs financed from abroad are not being punished. You have not touched any of the provisions of this law at the core of the problem -- that there is property acquired under the law and there is property acquired by law and that there is property formed by the political parties DOS and NGOs, as well as so-called. independent media and individuals, as well as other DOS parties, in an illegal and irregular manner. That's why they're not subject to taxation under this law. Legal certainty, as one of the basic legal principles, requires certainty regarding the acquisition of assets. If certain activities are carried out in accordance with the law, and are later qualified as taking advantage of the specific benefits arising from such regulations, then legal certainty is fully threatened, since it is not known what can be considered in the future if later and what has been legally done is sanctioned as illegal. The provisions of the law lay down the subject matter of taxation and states that this tax imposes extra income and extra property acquired from 1 January 1989 until the date of entry into force of the law by taking advantage of special benefits, on which one natural and legal person is given the possibility of obtaining property under conditions which have not been available to all citizens. Those provisions do not say at all what conditions are available to some in order to create the criteria that citizens should be considered privileged. This remains an open question, as well as the question of how, in any particular case, an individual natural or legal person, under the law which is now in front of us, will be designated as a taxpayer, or a citizen who created income or acquired property under the conditions that were only available to him. This norm is undefined and allows when it is applied arbitration, creating exceptional conditions for its abuse in application. It is necessary to specify precisely in the provision the appropriate legally relevant conditions available to some citizens, and some do not need to submit a register here on the basis of which we will be able to determine which companies, which are the natural persons who will come under the influence of this law. I guess the government, motivated by submitting such a bill, established the exact list of natural and legal persons to which the law applies, probably did not prescribe anything and only later investigates who these are natural and legal persons. One little thing in Article 3 will be taxed on privileged payments, frozen old foreign exchange savings and savings in banks amounting to more than 10.00 German marks per savings role. Why not 5,000, why not the amount of 500 marks when in 1993 the salary was one mark or a half. Where did that 10,000-mark criterion come from as a border? Article 9 of the law is symptomatic - guessing with the taxpayer. You know, this country went through a period where all financial transactions and all public revenues were under the control of one family. The family was called Markovic - Milosevic. We are now re-entering a period of nepotism, in which perhaps once again an extramarital community will decide on our incomes and taxes, Djelic will tax, and Radovic will charge and settle. He'd say the people, one ride, and the other ride. I don't suppose the Tasa's the level that the community used to be at before them. Article 10 stipulates that the tax is paid from 35% to 90% and that the tax is paid in German marks. And why not the French French, since the Minister is more available. How did the citizens of Serbia make German stamps? How come our legal faces are German stamps? Please imagine now if someone is, using privileges, although there is crime here, and suppose someone has acquired a million marks, they will pay about 370,000 marks based on basic tax and this part of the tax on the amount of over a million marks. That's about 45% of his taxes. If someone, according to the amendment that started to circulate here, has a 45 square-square apartment, on those five squares they'll pay 95% per square square. So the one who took the people of a million marks and the one who took the five squares aren't in the same position. You are mistaken for political reasons and you immediately punish those five squares with 90% of taxes. For you, 90% of the taxes are for those who have kidnapped citizens, only for the income of more than 10 million marks. It shows how the legislator approached this law. He simply approached to try to find former regime politicians who could charge anything at the same time to fill the budget. She won't, she won't accept the government's acceptance that some of the funds that were damaged from this are being settled at a time when extra income was obtained, extra property. It's not even the government's pension fund, it's a health fund, it's just trying to make an extraordinary budget income, and maybe the ovary year would somehow close. What about next year? And let me just finish. I ask you to provide that the appeal delays the execution of the solution, because many social enterprises will be shut down, which we helped stay at the time when it was most difficult and when we gave the goods from the stock reserves, close down all the factory halls if you take over the property immediately after the solution if they have no money to give you. And then you'll access the privatisation of these facilities, and here's why this law is being passed -- that our social enterprises lose total value, that they become debtors of the state, and that then the state, without any burden, without any obligation towards employees, sells our businesses, and that ends the story. Obviously, DOS is the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9042	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9043	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in its tourist tour of Belgrade, Minister of Finance and Economy, Bozidar Djelic has offered us a legal project, which is, in fact, contrary to our legislation, above all to the federal Law on the founding of the tax system. We had in such an experiment his case, to be made, and unfortunately he was from a time ago and valid from 13 days ago, and the Tax Act on Use and Wearing Certain Goods. And, I remind you, in his fantastic experiment he has incorporated into the provisions of the law and that even a motorless boat is taxed, and all of this, the entire tax policy of the current DOS government, and the policy of a resolute minister, is hard to hit already the impoverished citizens of Serbia. We're just waiting for the day when people in the cities, who are already now (one of them is Kragujevac, from whom I come) will be timed by social bombs, to start going out into the streets. Or, simply, to those who, by the provisions and this law, and everyone else, come and say -- I am forced to charge taxes, to take matters into their own hands, in the way that they solved it, believing what you declared in the campaign last year and voting for the majority coalition so-called. The democratic opposition to Serbia. Now he's going to change his mind, and that's what he's feeling right now. However, what is recognizable, and what is seen in another member of this law, and what is seen at the beginning of the government's reasoning, or the motionary -- it is said that the government is calling for a period back 12 years, and they can't do anything else, but to find out what we all saw on October 5th, when you made a coup and revolution on the streets of Belgrade, that this is just a continuation of the eighth session, that now some other people, Stambolic's faction in power, that they want to deal with their political opponents, with those with whom they have calculated back 11 years. There is one interesting anecdote about one famous communist, this man (he was from Kragujevac) went to the eighth session and had two speeches - in one pocket a speech for Milosevic, and in the second for Stambolic. I'm counting on a man -- I'm going to watch the session run, and I'm going to define myself -- which pocket I'm going to grab, and what speech I'm going to give. The same is now the case with the directors of many social and private enterprises in our country, with many who, starting on October 5th, are ahead of an attack, terror, fear that you and these tax laws, as well as through your entire operation, force them into the bones. They're starting to defect, and what they're saying is we better go to this side, so we can meet up on that list of similars. Article 2 of the Law states that bonds of a one-time tax have been made by a natural or legal person, who, in a period and manner referred to in Article 2 of this Act, made extra income or acquired extra property. You are, therefore, bound to this period of time, and yet I must remind you of something recorded in our infamous history, at a time of difficult communist dictatorship -- that time I do not remember because of that small number of years, but the people who survived it under Joseph Broz's dictatorship said much about it that there was so-called. The state Commission for the Investigation of Origin of Property, and of course, the state commission selectively then taxed and examined the origin of property only to those who were opposed to the communist regime. What he said, as a representative of the parliamentary group, which today, unfortunately, makes here most of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, coincides with his elementary ignorance of everything that needs to be contained in a legal project and how tax from a taxpayer can be settled. He said the MPs, and already tried themselves in this role on March 31st, would negotiate with those who would be subject to this legislative experiment, that in agreement with them they would see how much and how much, in this progressive rate, between 30% and 90%, to tax them. Indeed, the misbehavior of the resolute minister and the government of the Republic of Serbia, that you are announcing a reporter, after the shift of Vuk Obradovic, who scratched where he shouldn't, told us that it would be Djelic, who suddenly, as a phantom, appeared here today. It is indeed incorrect that you have not delivered to us what has been published by both Sunday and daily presses, and that is the report, the Commission's current report -- which are companies, which are companies, which will come under the influence of such a back of a speciality. The fact that you call on the Constitution and say that anyone who is obliged to pay taxes and other taxes established by law must do so, that's something that I said at the outset, that it conflicts with the federal constitution and with the provisions of federal law, which most precisely regulates it. It is simply amazing to me that about the way we do business, the way we do everything possible, in the situation of unprecedented pressures and sanctions by Americans and his Western allies on our country and on our people, on our economy, on the employees of these companies, says Bozidar Djelic, who, after 15 years from Paris, from the white world, after the failed experiments in Russia, in Poland, in the Czech Republic, where he is banned, came here to make experiments like this with us and to try to completely break our economy, which is in a difficult situation anyway. Perhaps, further, in this regard, the appointment of good, not to say close, friend of the Secretary-General, and the new Director of the Republic Public Revenue Administration, Aleksandr Radovic, at the head of the Commission. It is truly incomprehensible that someone from such a position should be at the head of the Commission who should investigate abuses and corruption, and the Commission who should really, objectively, impartially do so, I guess should control how Mr Radovic now, from the position of the newly appointed director of the Republic Public Revenue Administration, is doing the job. You said what my colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group mentioned, which is a provision of the law, that the tax will be charged against German marks and that it is a foreign exchange market course published by the National Bank of Yugoslavia. You weren't, Mr. Djelic, as much as my memory serves, for a month and a half in the Assembly, I said, ever since you put MPs in front of you, and your majority adopted that tax code package, which, directly now hits our citizens' poor pockets. You agree with Mr Dinkic, who also has the skill of hiding it, that to a significant extent, the mark course has changed, that he is no longer in real terms 30 dinars, as you are artificially holding him, but 45, because we have had a blow to the prices, because we have a sales tax and because we have an inflation that is not what you predict and we will unfortunately have it at a much higher percentage by the end of the year. It won't be 30%, we assume it might reach 100% by the end of the year. You said in your statement that, like the committee responsible in the assembly, you were very open to the amendments. That's not true. Over 70 amendments have been tabled by MPs from opposition parties and mostly by SRS deputies. When we speak in principle, we will see that one of the first amendments is the one that is the initial chapel for much greater tension, political, economic and any other that will take place in our country, and that is the amendment in which the Vojvodina County Assembly asks you to make 50% of the income from such a lex specialis, from this way of covering, as you said in the budget deficit, goes to the duke's register. These appetites and all that the autonomists of the province's Dukean Assembly require will cost us a lot, us as a state and as a people. And as for this deficit, which you said you had to fill in this way, and so you will destroy many social enterprises in our country, you promised us Mr. Djelic and put it in the proposal of the most important legislative project, in the 2001 budget, that you would cover the budget deficit of 30 billion dinars with donations from abroad. And if you will, deliver to The Hague tribunal, we won't get a single dollar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9044	The word has been made by MP Jovan Todorovic, People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, to be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9045	Dear Presidency, Mr. Djelic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us one law that most say needs to be passed from the point of view of the goals that such a law should achieve. But the life that will follow after this law is passed will most likely show us that many of the provisions contained in this law will not be properly applied, justly or justly. Let's get in line, first of all, just the name of the law. So, the bill on one-time income tax and extra property, some have already spoken about it, is somewhat controversial and problematic for me. In the old days, when I started a professional career, extra income was considered to be the income that was made in the process of getting above the average rate, profit or income, for that branch or group. That definition obviously doesn't apply when it comes to the title of this law. I'd rather say this could be an extra profit bill, which is more appropriate to all of our regulations that we've passed in the meantime. Then, the period to which this law applies, I hope that we can agree, that it is very difficult to start counting some time since 1.1.1989. Why is that, ladies and gentlemen, controversial for me? Dispute for a number of reasons, and I'll only list some. First, I would remind all of you that in that time, in 1989, Mr. Djelic, there was another country called SFRY. That in the state's constitution, the republics, independent states of Slovenia, Croatia, BiH and Macedonia were still seceded today. That this country, the SRJ, was created by the 1992 Constitution and that at that time there was another legal, economic and economic situation. I don't see what it was to motivate the promoter to take exactly 1989 as the year from which it would start. If we wanted to talk about it and in a political way, then I could ask the question of how DOS accounts when it basically does not recognise the continuity of this country's SRJ with the previous one, because to acknowledge it would not appear with a request from the Security Council to reaccess us to the United Nations, when it conducts succession procedures in one different way than it was imagined in the original variant, and in this law it returns to that period of 1989. I wouldn't say other reasons, but I think those who think that way, who think seriously about it, have to agree with this subject. Secondly, Article 3 of the Law says: "Transactions from which the subject of taxation arises... "so that's one chapter and now we have a Article 3, so in it so many and so many points. And I will now comment on how in life, so in practice, it will apply the provisions of points 1 and 2 of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take an example like this, he says, "By using primary and gray money economies in financial transactions." I remind all of you that we have witnessed this time that in all these years since 1991, we have used, to this day, for 10 years, the primary emissions for different purposes. But the most frequent users of these primary emissions funds were just state-owned enterprises, where the founding state is, with reasons to ensure that these funds ensure price stability and prevent the impact on the country's citizens' standards. Take, for example, the financing of the electricity industry, the example of the financing of the metal-processing complex, the example of the financing of the food industry, the storage of the prices of milk, bread, etc. Let us assume that there have been abuses that are institutional, by law, which we today consider to be taxable. But I'm asking you, ladies and gentlemen, how we're going to treat one of these cases. Directly ahead of NATO, the bombing of H company was credited with the primary emissions of millions of dinars. According to a German mark course on March 23rd 1999, a rate of 10 dinars per mark, higher than the official one, which was 6 dinars at the time, amounted to 100,000 marks. Due to the bombing and the duration of the bombing, the company returned the loan in 2000, October. That's when the brand course was 40 dinars, Mr. Djelic. Today is the official course of 30 dinars. A million dinars divided by 40 dinars for a brand is equal to 25,000 marks. It would be said that the difference between 25,000 marks and 100,000 is an extra income or profit to be taxed. Is it? Is, ladies and gentlemen, at that moment a privileged course of 40 dinars, and that is a course declared by the National Bank, which is another great absurd -- it will tell us which courses were on the day we took or returned the loans. I'd ask Mr. Djelic, you probably weren't in this country at the time, but in 1993 the course changed from hour to hour that we didn't talk from day to day. When you were granted a loan in the morning, at 8 o'clock, if you got it through the PDO at 12 o'clock, it was already 1/3 of that loan. And when you managed to place those purchase funds for which the loan was intended, it was 10% of it already. I'm talking about an actual state, gentlemen, how you're going to apply the law. I'm not talking about the political responsibility of those who, eventually, made some wrong decisions, I'm talking about the other side of this law medal. How do we apply that? Please, what course, street, jury, squishy. We have today, one of our colleagues mentioned, the fact that it is a higher course in transactions than it is in the official course of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. Is there any extra income and extra profit? We must answer these questions in life and in practice so as not to make new injustices, if we already think that this law corrects something that was an injustice in some previous time. So I'm not against the law, I'm talking about the weaknesses of this law. But whoever proposed that law, he had to take care of it. Let's say, let's take the next example - dots 12 and 13. I can give you a lot of examples. Think about it and you'll see it's life. Two companies have two different acts on the belonging apartment or the corresponding amount of credit for certain workers, directors, officials, board members and so on. In one company it's 80 square meters, and in the other company it's 100 squares. In the first enterprise, they approved a loan or purchase of an apartment or a purchase of a 100 square-square apartment. Mr. Djelic, the difference of 100 squares is according to this law, extra profit. In the second company, according to the acts, they have just granted a loan or a purchase of a 100-square apartment. There's no difference. Both directors, public enterprise official, political organisation or elsewhere, both received the same area. Is there justice and equality? Think about it. So, correct the law in that part to be applicable. Next, it's about the founder's responsibility. Gentlemen, in the past time, privatisation began. We have a mass of shareholders. Stockholders appear today as founders of the company. Will your shareholders be responsible for what now arises as a result of the application of this law? Please, how can it be logical to talk about extra profits, and that the company went bankrupt and that the liquidation mass cannot appease the funds needed to settle the tax for so-called. extra profit or income under this law. One more thing, the responsibility of members of the managing authority, director and so on. I remind you that at that time the ZUR, the Law of Joint Work, was in force. We had members of the labor council and working councils. Mr. Djelic, are the members of the workers' council from 1989, 1990, until the adoption of the Company Act 1997, responsible for any transactions and taxpayers' obligations under this law? So these are questions that we must answer previously so that we can apply this law. (President: time. President, I apologize, just one more thing to say. If you're late in paying this tax... Gentlemen, don't mind the truth. I am for the law, but a law that can be applied. If I have to, I'll vote, of course. Let's say the interest question -- we found everything in the stamps. Is this brand being introduced as a coin or currency into our payment system? We've established the interest obligation in the dinars. What's the difference? If it's a hundred thousand tax marks, which should have been paid in some time, then it's 100,000 marks when it's paid. If you say -- that's 100,000 marks times 30 dinars, it's equal to that much dinars, so the interest is tightened on that, so when the period goes by and you divide it again by a course of 30, it's not the same number at all. I understood the meaning of the law that everything is accounted for and accounted for in stamps, precisely to preserve the real value determined at the level of the tax under this law. Of course, I'd have more on it, but I don't have time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9046	The word is by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, followed by MP Dragan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9047	Mr. President, DOS MPs make me say DOS is the worst, and when I say DOS is the worst, then you give me a warning. I won't say that. Ladies and gentlemen, I advocate that anyone who has illegally acquired any wealth will be punished for it. Not only him, he must be punished and he who has made it possible to gain wealth in such a way. It's not enough to just pay taxes. What does that mean? Somebody gets 400,000 marks, pays 135 grand, and he's got 265,000 marks left, and I tell him, "Lopino," and he says, "I paid taxes, I'm very useful to this country, I'm clean." How much did you pay your taxes? Other measures must be made in accordance with the law. For crime, you have to go to jail. Everything must be taken away, not just part of the illegal property acquired. The head of the DOS parliamentary group, Ceda Jovanovic, says the law does not deal with criminal responsibility. If he's not involved in criminal responsibility, if there's no criminal responsibility, then what are we taking people's money for? Let's find out who did it, who stole it, who illegally acquired it, and then take everything and plus to prison. Otherwise, I'd like this law to live. I'd like to see Dusan Mihajlovic take everything away. You don't think one of the D.O.S. MPs thinks he's got everything he's got now legally acquired, do you? But we need to pass a law that has a feedback. I read the Constitution, in Article 117. It is said that if this requires general interest, the feedback can only have parts of the law, and certainly not the whole law. We need to act in accordance with a law that's anti-constitutional. Why does the bill treat the period from 1 January 1989 to the date of adoption of this law? For example, since July 1, 1982, or February 14, 1959, or any other date? Why is it limited on the day of the law? Are you suggesting that the wealth of some people, close to Milosevic, began on that very day and ended with you coming to power? Do you think you're innocent? Many who were not close to Milosevic have become rich in a similar way, through connections, ties, bribery and any other way. Many are now in DOS. There are also some who sit here and work as MPs, who have become rich in this way. Do you think it's enough to charge for the racket, take what it takes and then say - now you're honest, now you're honorable? That's what classic rackets do. They never take everything, they never destroy it to the end of the one they recruit. And when they need money, they demand it again, and you will probably extend the law, according to Minister Djelic. You say, "Whoever volunteers to make a little bit of ash, "it's down 35%." Okay, you're changing that with amendments. But the question is whether the amendments will be adopted. A citizen should, as our minister's advisor said, what a counsellor such as the minister of police, a citizen should rat himself out. What happens if the courts refuse to apply this law? In Article 96. The constitution is said - courts are independent and independent in their work and judge under the Constitution and the law. What happens if some brave judge refuses to apply such a law that is not constitutional? Or do you think by setting up the president of the courts, you'll be providing support anyway? And we don't have a Constitutional Court. Mr Popovic, who tells me if I recognize myself, will recognize you too, Mr Popovic, your time is passing. We Serbian radicals don't get hit by this law. We weren't fans of the regime, we were usually arrested for political reasons. We're just warning, the law will fall in the Constitutional Court, eventually. Once we have to have the Constitutional Court. I doubt this law, if we adopt it today, will apply objectively. There, until yesterday's Deputy Prime Minister and President of the Anti-Corruption Commission Vuk Obradovic said he was removed at the time he reached Lutra and Dusan Mihajlovic. He says he got a signal and that signal applies to everyone else. They don't touch Mihajlovic, they don't touch Lutra, they don't touch those who are near Djindjic or Djindjic, they don't touch those who have funded and helped DOS, they may also buy their car and apartment leaders. Do you think Chad of his student scholarship could buy two jeeps and be saddened when they destroy them, just like that? Will political parties come under the influence of this law, so-called trade unions or those NGOs who put money in cash into the country. We stand for legality, not lawlessness, but now revolutionaries leave guns, bring quasi laws to seize what's left. There are children among you of first fighters and generals. You learned from your fathers how to kidnap and rob, and the ones I'm looking at right now are the children of the first fighters. Serbian radicals demand that, after a court case, if guilty, misappropriation and robbery are proven, on the basis of a verdict, they take the law of the prescribed measure and that someone who has thus robbed the people and the state be punished by prison and not only by taking part of the profits. In principle, this law will be implemented by a couple Djelic-Radovic, and we do not trust such couples.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9048	The word is made by MP Dragan Pavlovic, and the next is Dragisa Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9049	Ladies and gentlemen, as a colleague has said, our time is passing and I quite agree, both our time and your time is passing, but it is important that in this passing behind us there remains something for the younger to remember us by. It's better for the good and for the good, not for the bad. However, I think the citizens of Serbia expect this law to at least partially correct the injustice we have been living in in recent years. I think it is especially expected by workers who have received a warm meal and a half instead of pay, that parents who haven't had a child's allowance for years are expecting those social cases that haven't long received help, to say the same thing, most Serbian citizens expect. As a Assembly, we have the responsibility to pass a law that will eliminate this injustice and, at the very beginning and when it is proposed, we are aware of the fact that it is not entirely possible to satisfy this justice, precisely because we are bound by the principle of legal certainty, but we hope that in the most extreme cases and the greatest forms of crime with the people's money, this law will satisfy that justice. I am always fascinated by the coldness with which the representatives of the former authorities openly speak and acknowledge the existence of cases of unfounded wealth, abuse, crime, and then, elegantly from that coldness, they go on to criticise the principles of theoretical debates that may take hours. I really think that not only legal science, but political and economic science, and perhaps medicine for a long time will be involved in what has been going on in the last ten years, for a long time, studying how it was even possible to trick their own people so many times, with so many different models of robbery and hoaxes, and how it could theoretically survive. The arguments of critics are quite contradictory, because they criticise because of the retroactive application of the law that this law puts legal certainty at risk, and the same one makes arguments in favour of each property and every fortune being questioned. These two things are opposite to each other, because if each property were to be investigated, it would be just those party commissions to examine the origin of the property. The legislator, the legislator here, has limited himself to precisely recognizable, i.e. possible forms of privilege, which can be established and which can be proven. That's why these cases are taxing. On the other hand, it has been said that criminal law could have dealt with this. If it could, then the question is why not, because if we admit that there are reasons and it could have been prosecuted, why wasn't it prosecuted? One, too, is that social enterprises are users of these privileges and I hope it will be interesting to monitor the flow of money that has come into these social enterprises. Finally, the opportunity was taken to scare the citizens again that they would be forced into a great deal and I just want to repeat that the citizens who bought the apartments are not subject to this law, that it only refers to appointed persons, officials and directors in enterprises that, in addition to the criteria foreseen by the acts, used and received apartments, which means a very limited number. In the end, I want to say that I would like more Serbs from the white world to come with the knowledge and the reputation they acquired there, and that as little as possible, the Serbs are standing in front of the embassy and going to the white world.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9050	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9051	Injury of Article 80. The Rules of Procedure, in which it says that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists if more than half of the total number of MPs attend the meeting of the National Assembly and says that the quorum is further determined by the application of the electronic voting system. He says further - if the MP raises doubts about the existence of the quorum, he may request that the quorum be determined by the calling of the MPs. I'm expressing my doubts about this electronic system, and I'm sure I'll ask for it to be determined by a roll call after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-13-0.u9052	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask that we determine the quorum. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 128 MPs attend today's session. To determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards. Dear Members of the People, we have 120 identified Members of the People. I see six MPs who have failed to comply with the obligations set out in Article 130. Rules of Procedure. In order not to receive a warning, I ask them to carry out their parliamentary obligation. I'm detecting another MP who hasn't been identified. I'm asking him to do it. Mr. Seselj, I give you a warning. You have not identified yourself as the Rules of Procedure, Rule 113, which violates the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning in accordance with Article 101, last indent. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the meetings of the following MPs: Radomir Naumov, Aleksandar Popović, Vlatko Sekulović, Veselin Janković, Vladan Jovičić, Milan Milosavljevic, Rodoljub Šabić, Milutin Sverčević, Zoran Novaković, Dusan Golubović, Miomir Tadic, Milan Radulović, Milos Radivojčević, Vuk Antonijević, Ratimir Svirčević, Vasilije Pavić, Mihajlo Jagodić, Zoran Boskovic, Predrag Stojanović, Atla Juhas, Ljubomir Slavković, Karolj Kermeci, Marko Jakšić, Boško Ničić and Dragan Šormaz. Only in the morning is Gordana Komic away, and in the afternoon Dusan Petkovic and Predrag Bajčetic. I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to be attended by the President, Vice-President, Minister and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. I would also like to inform you that the sittings were invited to attend Nenad Canak, the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and Dr Predrag Filipov, vice-president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, as the authorised representatives of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, who submitted amendments to the draft laws on the agenda of this session. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON A SINGLE ISSUE ON EXTRA REVENTION AND EXTRA IMPROVED USE OF SERĐA Popović, followed by MP Branimir Trajković.
