ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5561	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. Please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have reported the absence of the following MPs: Ljubisa Djokovic, Mihajlo Marković, Željko Tomić, Ratimir Svirčević, Milan Radulović, Dusan Budisin, Zivica Peredoev, Jakov Stamenković, Dragan Janjic, Meko Omerović, Natasa Milojevic, Dragan Milentjevic, Jelena Milenković, Olgica Kircanski, Branko Gligorić, Aleksandar Vatović, Vukosav Tomaševic, Mujo Mukovic, Rodoljub Šabić, and Radomir Naumov. In the morning, Pal Shandor and Stanko Kovacevic were away, in the afternoon Dragan Vuksic, and the delay was announced by Zoran Nikolic. I would like to inform you that the sittings are invited to be attended by the President, the Vice-President, the Ministers and the Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: - Proposal for an Amendments and Complementary of Employment Law and RESERVATION of the Rights of Unemployed Persons (Resumption) The People's MP Dragan Tomic has the word Dragan Tomic, and after that, the National MP Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5562	Dear People's MPs, there's no government again, so there's no one to defend the law. I've got a few people laughing at me in Machva, says it's raining dwarves, so there's going to be berserks, no matter what these laws are on the agenda. I'd like to start with the aim of these laws. Indeed, a man wonders what the goal of these last few legal solutions is. I was lucky to see the draft law on privatisation, and I'm only now clear. Definitely the sole objective of these laws that we're talking about is one significant lifting and eradicating employees' rights, so in all these laws, when we started from the Labour Law, what we're going to talk about these days. That definitely shows we'll see it in the privatisation law. This law obviously has a goal as well as the previous ones, and those we're going to talk about, to erase, reduce workers' rights, and definitely has not consulted any unions, workers or any other group, because I guess the minister is enough to represent both trade unions and government, so that's enough to know what rights are and what the will and desire of workers is. I've had a chance to talk to several groups of employees from the economy these days, people who are about to be a technological surplus, people who are likely to become technologically excess under the privatisation law and definitely experience a violent reaction from all these people to the abolition and erasure of their rights. What does not exist either in the Government programme or in these laws, or in the perspective, is what will happen to these large groups of employees, and above all from some major economic areas which, due to sanctions, because of the environment, because of the lack of conditions for serious production are located on the lowest branches of production. First of all, I mean the textile branch, the meditative complex, I mean the large systems, the provision of services in other areas, let's say, furniture producers and so on. What will happen to these groups, and it will certainly happen that most of these workers will experience Article 1. The law, which says - 24 months if it was secured (worker) for 25 years and more. After that, after these 25 years of work, they will be paid in two years and the practice will be completed. That's why I think the previous legal solution made sense. Maybe that thing seemed to be holding back some kind of solution and someone's right not to work. That's not true, because because of everything that's been happening to us, it's been taking care of those people who are out of a job. Today, this practice means that someone who turns 27 at the age of two will be out of a job. There won't be any conditions for requalification. Employers have not shown significantly the need for persons who have 27, 28, 30 years of experience, because they are people who already have a certain degree of disability and their working ability are significantly reduced compared to younger people, their idea chalk, those are people who simply fall into ideas and creation, and that is normal biological time, simply, no longer able to create. So maybe it was by law on working relationships, changing and putting there, who turned 45, or 50 years of life to retire. So at least this solution would be clearer and conditions would be created if people didn't have about ten years of vacuums from which they wouldn't know what to do. There is one solution to cross agricultural producers, to pay pension, this astronomically in some six or seven years of their lives. It's the only way they can try to get any pension. What this law certainly does not provide, which is a problem at the base of the large systems, does not change one thing, remains in the legal framework, that when a man gets a pension right he has the right to use, that is, he is obliged to calculate the ten most favourable years for his internship and from those ten years, which are this year between 1980 and 1990, and mainly that period was used, the pension basis. So that raising this base to 3,033 dinars to 12,724 dinars on this scale means nothing when it comes to a retirement internship at this point, and it's likely to mean for generations of people who need to be employed now, but that's a perspective for about 20 or 30 years. At this point, that doesn't mean, because we can't draw political or economic points here. What's true, most of the corporate collectives that have to, and he paid for the 283, or the last of the 470, certainly won't be able to pay for that base, because he didn't even have a gross billing, which is these big systems, these are big trading houses both in Belgrade and inside Serbia that are left to live, big auto traffic organisations, transport companies and what I was talking about before. So they're going to have to pay off a base of 3,033,00 dinars, whether or not they're going to pay off a net and one dinar. If we calculate that there are thousands of workers in one of these companies, that means 3,033.00 million dinars should be paid for social contributions. Today, up to 3,000,000 dinars are extremely difficult to come by, and perhaps before that, restructuring should have been done in new forms of production, trying to get these companies to work in another way. With this exclusive approach to pay up to 30 for the previous month, with this criminal provision that says you can stop the company from working for up to 90 days, I don't understand that provision. What does she mean? Does it mean that some kind of inspector comes to the door, locks the lock on the company, seals it up and says, "Go home, in three months, come back to work." Indeed, it is a provision that does not belong to this legislation. It belongs to someone else, but not this one. I think that when it comes to this provision, there may be a series of abuses. In practice, I definitely appreciate the importance of income management as a positive act, but I have the impression that income management is expected to be now a gravedigger of the Serbian economy. The administration of income has never done so before, so I ask why the PDOs, which in the last ten years have been discussed and requested their restructuring, various funds, pension, disability and others, which have not introduced any reconstructions in business, in a way, in the performance of their functions, other than well-paid work, finely allocated funds for their own needs, for investments, for building solid facilities, business premises, and for the rights of workers and other rights, no serious reconstruction has been done in this area. So I have the impression that there is now even less planning in this area to do something, and I expect that they will have enough money for themselves, and what remains for the working class will already be a question for themselves. I don't think there's gonna be any more money in this way, because it's gone. We can't make it up just to print it. We can't even give it to companies if we don't have production. Therefore, if these amendments proposed by the MPs are not adopted, if this is not taken into account by opposition MPs, do not ask us later or ask us that we have a critical approach and that you criticise us for this critical approach. (President: Time. ) Because, definitely, both trade unions and employees, and many employers will ask you in the next two months what to do, will come to the doors of both governments and resolution ministries, and various republican funds and say - give us money for the workers. Without production, there's nothing, and you can't get money out of something that doesn't exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5563	The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5564	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, listening to individual ministers who have had the courage to visit this House, it is evident that they and the creators of the laws adopted so far are a disgrace. Most likely, they do not appear, or avoid attending a meeting of the National Assembly. I see the front row is empty, no minister, and all invited. (Glass from the O.R.: Theme. Mr. Chairman, don't let the soft gentleman out of the corner. Or these laws were written by someone from abroad so they don't understand what he wrote and they don't know how to defend these laws. Only ignorance or high pressure from external factors can force the parliamentary majority to vote for such destructive laws. Most of you vote for these laws without even knowing what the laws are on the agenda. You're asking us in the hallway to vote today. It's a shame. Gentlemen, not so long ago, in the election campaign, you made a lot of promises to the citizens of Serbia. After winning the election, instead of the promised prosperity and development, you focused your energy on the adoption of this kind of law. All the laws adopted so far, and those you will adopt by the end of this session, are a prerequisite for large layoffs of workers with significantly reduced labour rights so far. This is all an introduction to the privatisation law, when DOS will put an end to the robbery. You'll sell everything that's worth it, and what's not worth it will be ruined by itself. The laws that are passed, essentially, will leave a lot of workers out of work, a large part of the economic operators will be closed, along with very small government obligations towards fired workers. Gentlemen, where are your pre-election promises, $6 billion donations to the democratic government, the return and employment of hundreds of thousands of young people who fled the country from the non-democratic government and had no prospects, allegedly, with the previous government? Now they seem to have it. What about 700-800,000 workers who have been on the labour market for tens and more years, each day joining new thousands of redundancies, who are fired by the new authorities because of party incompetence? The example is 300 fired high-level workers at the National Bank of Yugoslavia. Suddenly 300 more workers. 75 market inspectors in one day are surplus, without one of them committing any kind of violation. They were doing their job safely. What perspective awaits those of others who have not yet established a working relationship, if the employment period, or waiting on the labour market, is an average of 10 years, with a tendency to be 15, due to a large inflow of workers who will be fired in the coming period? It seems, gentlemen of the DOS, that for you fired workers are just numbers, not fosterers of families, parents of students and young children. How much you're paid for this dirty job, say, so let's give you that money, and get out of the way. Do not be fooled that this power will last until autumn. Very soon, some new government will demand the account and responsibility of all of you, who sell their people and the state for a handful of dollars. Turn your head around and you'll see your crisis headquarters and party fighters throw out thousands of people just because they think otherwise or they're members of opposition parties. In particular, hypocrisy is expressed by the Government in the explanation of individual members of the bill. The case is Article 1. - "According to the solution so far, an unemployed person who had been insured for 30 years has been entitled to cash compensation for employment, i.e. to the achievement of pension rights. This solution did not stimulate unemployed persons to seek employment." A man with 30 and over years of work experience, in his old days, when he's already retired, down, sick, so much he needs to show off his energy and look for a new job. Should we leave people like that out of work? Each of you has hundreds of unemployed citizens next door who will join thousands of others in the next few months. Aren't you ashamed to meet with those citizens of ours tomorrow, whose laws take away what little rights they've had? I, who do not participate in the vote of this kind of criminal law, am ashamed of these people. I don't know how you feel.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5565	The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and after him, the MP Vladimir Garčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5566	Ladies and gentlemen, I have several concrete objections to this draft law on amendments to the Employment Act. My first objection refers to Article 1. The proposal introduces another restriction in relation to the existing law. Thus far, the Law provides for persons who are jobless and who have 30 and more years of insurance (employee), to be entitled to receive compensation until new employment or to qualify for retirement. With this proposal, this provision has been abolished, i.e. it has been reduced, and that is important, so that with this proposal, all persons who are jobless and have 25 and more years of insurance are entitled to receive a 24-month fee. In light of this proposal, it says that these faces will be stimulated to seek employment so as not to work on black. I have one dilemma and I have a question: do we in this country have a labour deficit, so now we are chasing those who have 30 and over years of employment to seek employment or the situation is different. In fact, we all know that in this country we have thousands and thousands of unemployed young people, with colleges completed with high schools, our goal should be to get these people to work as soon as possible, to provide them with jobs. I think it's smarter for people who are 30 years old and lose their jobs, to pay until retirement, and to provide places for young people who have finished school and have been waiting for years to work. In other words, I believe that it is necessary to destimulate this measure of people who, at the age of 25 and over, lose their jobs without taking jobs for those who are just beginning their working life. As for their work on black, this government has enough inspection bodies, enough taxpayers, so it can very quickly and very easily introduce order into that sphere, work on black. The second objection concerns Article 3. A proposal setting out the minimum basis for calculating the contribution. It is evident that these foundations have been increased by more than 100% compared to the existing ones in the previous, or still in force of the Law. It explains that the reason for this increase, the introduction of gross earnings, i.e. the introduction into the basis for calculating contributions and a warm meal, and the regression and some other incomes that workers are receiving today. At first glance, it is clear that this gross profit per new system has not been increased by 100% compared to current net earnings, so it is clear that the proposaler's intention is, in fact, to fill in the budget that was designed for this year as quickly and as easily as possible. The second article also provides for a cap on the upper hand, i.e. I will now quote "the base cannot be higher than the average of the average monthly earnings per employed in the Republic". I do not fully understand whether this means limiting profits in the Republic of Serbia and on the top. If that is the case, I find it unconstitutional, and if the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to limit public service, public administration, public enterprises, I support it. However, if he wants to limit profits in private businesses, in private employers, then I think it's unconstitutional and it's not a good move. In my previous presentation on the previous agenda, I asked the minister, who was not in this room at the time and is not presently present, a question that required a concrete answer. According to the current method of calculating contributions, the employer, with 4.217 dinars, could pay the worker with the first and second degree of professional training, is currently equal to the lowest basis, which is 1,634 dinars. In addition, another 1,000 dinars of hot meal, which is now untaxed. In other words, with 4.217 dinars, as far as the employer provides, a worker with a first and second degree professional training gets his hands on 2,634 dinars. My question at the time was, how much will a first and second-degree expert be able to achieve, that is, to receive hands of 4.217 dinars, when a new way of calculating contributions under this new system is applied. To be honest, employers will not get any more jobs by applying new laws, or they will not have more funds to pay off workers than they have already had. I'm afraid that these new bases, so increased, and this new way, will be mostly at the expense of workers, in fact, that the amount that will be available for the payout of workers will be much lower than so far. The explanation of this article states "the introduction of a gross system has established a single basis (gross) for paying taxes and contributions to compulsory social security from earnings... , and the reduction of the contribution rate creates conditions for reducing the fiscal burden, i.e. the employer's obligation." There's an idea and the thesis that the rates of the contribution will be reduced. However, this has not yet been specifically announced in public, it is not said how much these new rates will be. We already have one experience with profit tax, the profit tax rate is not reduced, it remained as before, in the same amount, and the base is expanded by applying the new gross system. I am asked whether these rates of contributions have already been established and, if so, why this is not disclosed here, why has not been made public and why, in the end, no precise account has been carried out in one particular case, so that we MPs, and the public at all, can make sure that this new accounting system is in favour of the workers, as the government representatives claim. If the contribution rates remain at the same amount, I would argue that it will be at the expense of the workers. On the other hand, although these rates are shrinking, the funds remain short sleeves, i.e. the funds will not get any more funding, and we all know that the funds are in extremely difficult condition, both pension and health funds. In Article 5. The proposal, in paragraph 4, states that labour, finance, health and social affairs ministers (adoptedly) prescribe a way of calculating and paying contributions. This is exactly what I just said, that (they) mentioned gentlemen should have done the exact math and convinced us here on one occasion that this new system of accounting and calculating contributions would be in favour of workers, not at their expense. In the end, I have an objection to Article 4. The proposal, which established the employer's obligation to contribute by 30th of the month for the previous month on the lowest basis, whether or not the employer paid the profits. I think this is another blow to employers and employees, because the employer will have to be threatened by some punishment, to commit to the state, and for the workers whether they will stay, whether they will, whether they will be able to do so, the state is not interested. So, the goal of the state is just to fill the budget, regardless of whether or not it's heard about the existential issues of workers. So the workers will stay and be very deprived of this new way of calculating, contributing and making money in this new system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5567	The People's MP Vladimir Garčević has the word, followed by MP Milan Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5568	Dear President, honourable MPs, I see the minister finally arrived at 11.00 p.m. It's European time, and it looks like that's how we start. I would like to address the president of the Assembly, as he often says in statements that the opposition is obstructing. It's with one of the vice presidents, and I'd be wondering why that is. I suggest that Serbia's public hears this: make laws that are more favourable for Serbian citizens, Serbia's workers and the opposition will not act, they will not participate. It will participate as much as it can contribute to improving it. Any other interpretations are not in line with our approach here and are not in line with what the Serbian citizen feels. Why? In particular, the law that is now on the agenda in its first member is restrictive and it is clear to a small child that after 30 years (work) if he loses his job and cannot exercise his right to retire and protect himself, that this is more unfavourable than it was. Come on, change that. We're going around that member where the opposition proposes to do what is more favourable for the workers. We all meet as citizens, as people, as MPs, however you will in your midst with workers and ask me why it is not accepted, why we have to stubbornly go with something that we do now and come into this situation. I'm happy that we were unique on Friday, and I can also praise Chad for coming out with one tolerated approach to things. Let's do it like that. Then the opposition will be the opposition, which it is, will make its contribution, not constantly in the treatment of this. On the other hand, let us allow the Belgrade Television, the first channel you hold, to allow opposition and position experts to come before cameras and concrete their (arguments) facts in the law to prove that these laws are more unfavourable for the citizens of Serbia. Then the citizens will be able to see it. The twenty-four months offered is unfavourable for the workers. I don't have a firm, but I kind of work as an employer. We're all here and there are people who have companies. I guess I'm talking about most of the young man who finished school, who can contribute. And what happens when Western merchants come and take over companies, what do they do? Should I take it when I'm 30? So they hang themselves in the West, because they don't know what they're going to do. After 30 years, workers have no security whatsoever. What's our citizen gonna do tomorrow? Give him the opportunity to hire young people and then the opposition in that situation such a member of the law will normally support him because he is better for the citizens of Serbia. Next, about the contribution, he says we're going to a single gross base, maybe there's something that's (good) for a while, and it's not for another time. Maybe something isn't for today. It's not worth anything to the worker that the employer will pay the contribution and give the state his obligations if he doesn't get anything on his hands. He has to survive. Maybe this part would be good for some richer time to be offered, so I guess it will come, but this time when the economy doesn't work... It is found that in one city, if business were to be launched, contributions that would be collected from working workers would be far more than will be taken in this way, as companies will be closed. So that's what we should do for a while, and that's what we do today, and we make this law. We'll change it after a year if the economy starts, then the economic conditions are better. We're doing it today, and it doesn't matter if someone gets better. On the other hand, it is said that the ministers, one, one and the other, please give in the laws, will also be law on salaries, and give us additional material from which we see what we are voting. Additional material here would mean that you offered us on a specific case of what it would be, to do one test, if the law was passed to make contributions, pension and disability and all that. As an MP, I get that, I'm having a little discussion with the workers, so we see it there, and then we can decide whether it's good or not. Now you're looking, and that seems to be what every government is asking, to believe everything unlimited, to give the powers unlimited, and we said that as MPs, we want to point out firstly that it is the Assembly that will give and the rights to ministers to decide in a particular segment. From this to a blind vote, to give all the authority, and we'll do so afterwards. Give us examples from which we can see it, and perhaps that item would not be attacked, but would say that it is good, there is an example that it will be so if the law is passed. Furthermore, with the committees formed you have, the board of directors numbers 15 members, and union representatives are on those committees. I'm interested in working as a worker as follows: how are you going to do the selection of two members of that union committee if there are 5-6 or maybe more unions. For example, let's assume that they all count over 10,000 members. Why didn't it say here in the law that they'd get that union that has the highest number of members, not the one that's at the will of the government. Why? Don't ask us now to talk about it that was two years ago, that a certain union was founded. About not discussing it. The workers came to that union or that union and give it to the law. Two members will give a union that has the largest number of members and then we would have a clear situation here, that it is not a matter of goodwill or government, or an individual who will be called to help realize certain things. We know the union must be with the government. We can talk as much as we want, because union leaders are looking for their own home. It's been here, and it's been before. It's the same situation at the top of the union. I believe that in all these laws that go and later offer solutions that are more favourable to the citizens of Serbia and the workers of Serbia and allow us in this way the opposition to make its contribution to what you have imagined. Otherwise, we have to point out that at the age of 30, when a worker stays on the street, it is not and is not good for the Serbian citizen. That's why in that part, I suggest you do it that way. On the other hand, you offered and said experts work and work. I admire Jovanovic. He won't take it as a call to replica, but even if he does, I understand that he has to defend all the legal regulations in this segment, and I apologize, please, and I admire that he has to get involved where he doesn't need to be. Because it's hard for us to know all that, too, and that's why I don't answer, and I don't go out for a pay phone when I don't think I can give anything, but I admire him when he has to defend it, and there's nothing else in the government of Serbia to take part in defending these legal regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5569	The word is made by MP Milan Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5570	Dear Presidency, Mr. President, members of the government, as an MP for the Socialist Party of Serbia, I think that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Employment and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons should not be accepted in view of the negative effects they will have on employees, on those who lose their jobs, as well as on the other negative provisions they contain. The law should also not be adopted because it reduces the rights of unemployed people in a situation that is economically very difficult and which has its consequences, and in the future, an increase in the number of unemployed persons. The unemployed will be more and more, and this suggests a drop in industrial production in the first four months of this year compared to last year. This also points to a very low rate of use of industrial capacities, which is 30%. It actually means that so much industry is working. It also points to the fact that there is a huge indifference of the economy. So there's no pay money. This is finally confirmed by official data suggesting that the number of unemployed is over 730,000 and increasing each month. The number of unemployed will be even higher in the future, as are individual trade unions and individual ministers. This is not only due to the lack of production, but is also the result of the privatisation that is being prepared in Serbia. So it is obvious that the unemployed will be more and more, and what the government is doing in such conditions. Instead of dealing with production and employment, it rather reduces the rights of those who remain unemployed and who have over 25 years of employment. Thus far, persons who had had been working age 30 and over, who had lost their job, have been entitled to compensation from the Labour Market Office until a new job, i.e. to retire. Since few people in those years could find a new job, mostly pension benefits were received. Now, with the new law, the fee is limited to 24 months, so I wonder who will receive the job of workers, masculine women, with over 25 years of work experience, which due to years and poorer health conditions, which can be assumed to be difficult to monitor scientific and technological development in production. It is logical that the employer from the labour market will take to work younger, more professional, more capable persons who can withstand the burden of production and professional requirements. I don't believe that people with many years of work experience, that is, older ones, will get an advantage over younger ones. In addition to the above-mentioned relationship with the unemployed, I must say that the law is restrictive to employees. Because it doesn't oblige an employer to pay employees a salary at the same time he has to pay social security contributions. An employer under this law must be obliged to pay all the contributions to the State, but does not have to pay the employee a salary. It would be fair and fair to pay a contribution to social security at the same time, but also to pay for a worker's earnings, not just one or the other. A worker can't live and support his family if he doesn't receive a profit from an employer, because his social security payment means nothing to him. That's why I think this law should be withdrawn or delayed, because economic and social conditions do not suit its acceptance.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5571	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5572	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have the impression that the DOS gentlemen, that the Prime Minister, Mr Djindjic, will again criticise you for the disastrous defense of the legal solution offered this way. It will be, again, that nothing is right, that you have not defended well, and in essence, the story is that offers are changed and complemented by this law is bad and that it cannot be better defended. After all, let him come, and let him defend it, if he thinks he can do better than you. We've heard here that this defense is going in the direction that he's not reform law, that these are only changes and additions, and that the reform law will be in a few months, so we're practically passing an old law. You find it interesting, and it keeps repeating -- it'll all be in a few months, it just waits, and then something comes back in a few months, according to that story about how Ciga taught the horse to starve and just taught him, and he died. Gentlemen, seven months have passed since coming to power and your promises, seven months have been and women have already begun to bring healthy children into the world, and there is nothing of your promises. You obviously miscarried. What is important is to say about this law, and what Mr. Proposer Milovanovic explained, as the minister I understand, because he has a lot of problems, he also has lectures, exercises, test deadlines in June, and now he has to bring a few proposed changes and supplements, and now he's spending days here with us, all the time he needs to learn and pass exams, because, normally, he wants to graduate 50 years ago, and he's about to be 50 years old. It says in the biography -- it's almost almost, so I don't know, I apologize, if it's -- it's just in the meantime, then it's another story. But surely he could have done some better things in life, let's say during this period, he could have in the international exchange of students to exchange, to try to protect the interests of students, and not like this to defend the interests of workers, as he defends them from the position of the former, or until now, union president. So it's essential, or the essence of the law is, when the employer shows up, who will come and buy the factory, that you will say--you there, you there, you there, you there, you go there, you go on the street, and they here, you stay to keep working. Now, since those out there, going out on the street, are going to be a lot, and usually there will be people who are 25 or 30 years already in a working relationship, then it will happen that the state is trying to get rid of these enormous burdens that will come suddenly if this goes on as this law predicted. And, let's say, by law, after 30 years of full-time work hours, a man is protected by being compensated for giving him a salary. So it won't be now, and the justification is that it's kind of stimulating, that these people who, after 30 years of being technologically surpluses, are being stimulated to look for work, because they've been destimulated so far, and now this government is going to stimulate them and then it's asking a clear question -- and where are they going to find such a stimulating job when we have a huge number of young people waiting for that job on the desk. It is certain that each employer will sooner receive a young man than receive someone over 30 years of employment. What's interesting is that Mr. Minister even goes against himself with this law, which in some way shouldn't be critical, because what he's going to do tomorrow, he's 50 years old, gets that degree from a graduate degree in engineering, which is a difficult college, with all due respect, and he's going to show up in front of the employer and say - here I am done. This one's going to say 50 years, sir, so you don't even have a job experience, what am I to take you in, you're going to retire in 10 years. And what's going to happen -- it's going to happen that we're still going to put one man, who was worth his life, trying to fight for workers' rights, in a position that he can't even be union president anymore. The government will fall, fall, as they have always fallen. He will lose the post of minister, he will not be able to get a job, given that under this law he will in some way be a technological surplus or be in years that will not be interesting to the employer. And what we've got now - nothing. So there's also a serious problem, which the minister obviously didn't think about. So, considering this point, that really many people will get into a situation, and two years will pass quickly, that they won't have a job. Those years are tough, they're years when a man loses his life's safety, when he can't work out all the demands. Therefore, one piece of advice in the end, just for human reasons, what is purely human -- to want impossible and to be insensitive to other people's problems, are two serious mental problems. Think about it, gentlemen, and about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5573	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5574	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want to worry about the Minister and his college, he's taking care of it. This speaker has been told a lot of things, that the law is restrictive, inhuman, anti-work. There were many questions and few answers. The minister tried and tried to answer some questions, however, he did not answer those questions. I think, as is said, it's not good that after 25 years, a man can lose his job and so on. Once again I ask Mr. Minister - are these laws that come as the predecessor of the property transformation law? I think it's the crown of everything, of all this work, of the law of ownership transformation, of immediate validation of new firms, of many people being afraid and many of them running out of work, and that's when the law on ownership transformation will be passed, and then the companies will be sold for a little bit of money. We have people abroad who already have a list of our firms, and how much they cost, which our government delivered to them. I can deliver that to you. Mr. Minister, if you are unable to answer this question, direct me - who is able to answer this question? Is this the predecessor of the property transformation bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5575	There is a word from MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5576	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, here is another proposal from the expert team, one law that is the result of an unreal budget adopted, one deficit budget, one adopted set of tax laws, then, the Labour Relations Act, and as a finalist, the Employment Act, which is all but a law on employment, but can also be called a non-employment law. Mr. Minister, the proposed law, defended the fact that he was talking about some other law or law. the law, the privatisation and how this law will improve this law. That's one absurd. The draft law on employment and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons is on the agenda, and the law on privatisation is a whole other topic, so I don't see any reason to involve it here. What is characteristic of this bill is that it is restrictive and rigorous to both employees and employers. Rigorousness towards employees is seen in the fact that Article 1 changes Article 14 of the previous Law to the damages of employees, so that a new category is introduced - 24 months are compensated if it has been ossified for 25 and more years. It ceases that this member, who refers to an unemployed person, who has been insured for 30 and more years, is entitled to be paid a fee up to his employment. Why does the government change this member - because I don't think this entire government has 30 years of work experience, and he doesn't even know how these workers, who have 30 years of internships, are left on the street. The next Article 2 changes Article 20 again restrictively, by reducing the level of monetary mass from 70% to 60% and taking as a basis not the previous month, but the average of three previous months. Normally, it is another restrictive and rigorous measure towards employees. Then, the cash mass is increased by not being at least 100%, as it has been so far, but being reduced to 80% of the average wage per employee. As regards the restrictiveity and rigorousity of the employer, it shall be examined in Article 3. thus changing the basics on which taxes and contributions are calculated. And for the lowest categories of employees, it means for those who have the lowest professional equipment, it is 3,030 dinars, up to the jobs for which a doctorate is required, when 12,724 dinars, so that it increases, and what is characteristic is that the employer has to pay that salary, must pay these contributions on these bases, regardless of whether he paid the salary to the employees. What creates a misunderstanding in this set of labour laws, in these social laws, is the lack of knowledge of the amount of contributions and inability to determine -- how much more or less the worker will receive, we can also see in this member who is changing, so that the minister, responsible for work, the minister in charge of finance and economic affairs, the minister in charge of health affairs and the minister in charge of social affairs, consensually prescribes how to calculate and pay contributions. So, once again, the possibility of arbitration is left to one team of ministers, who will at times prescribe these rates of contributions, so that the working man, nor the employer, cannot know with certainty -- how long it takes to separate it for the state, and how much will remain to be paid to the employees. Furthermore, there is a dilemma around the board of directors -- which is a union that has more than 10,000, and there are probably more, and there will be a narrow circle of people deciding -- which union will be represented on boards or supervisory boards, as proposed by this law. Finally, restrictive policy also applies to the criminal policy of this law, by re-suming the range of fines 1:100 and as many as we have voted. There is a possibility that a company that has 10 to 20 employees will have to, on the basis of a few of these adopted laws, or by this law, pay a fine of up to a million dinars, unless it is able to carry out its obligations to the state. The disputed provision again remains, which is the closure of the company or the ban on the performance of the activity. Thus, with this ban, there will be a shut down of the company and many people will remain on the street, as a consequence. What this government wanted with this set, both tax laws and labour laws, in fact, neglecting the needs of workers, the needs of Serbian citizens -- is to prepare a field for the adoption of a new law, which will be called - a law on ownership transformation, or a law on privatisation, so that future employers can make it easier and better conditions, but normally, not conditions in one market economy, but conditions such that it will be all to the detriment of our citizens, who will remain on the street, following the application of this set of laws. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, a gang, gathered in a group called the NATO Alliance, despite warnings from the National Assembly, continue to commit their crimes. A few days ago, Dejan Milovic was killed in the vicinity of Kosovo Mitrovica, only because he is a Serb. Apparently, they claim he was opening fire, and eyewitnesses say he was killed with three bullets from his back. So much for those who have come to carry out a peace mission in Kosovo, and in fact they are doing a criminal mission, which continues from day to day, and there is no end to this mission. I hope that even more rigorous views in 10-15 days, when the Assembly is in session, will oblige that mission to stop killing innocent Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5577	The word is by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, followed by MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5578	(from the O.R.: a, I criticise the minister). Well, I'm criticizing the minister, so the minister returned it to me immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the bill most strongly defended by the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia. I think that at the wrong time and with the wrong law, they went into a pre-election campaign, because by adopting this law, and I have no doubt that most will adopt this law, many workers will be damaged, and that is precisely those who spent 25, 30 years in a company. Here, I see that these days many members of the Serbian Radical Party are fired, and some other workers are fired, and on the other hand they are employed by wives, ministers' sister-in-laws and DOS officials, so I have carefully studied this law. We have referred to this law a number of amendments that we will explain and try to convince the Government, and above all, the Minister of Labour and Employment to accept them. Since all the amendments relate to the improvement of the status of certain categories of workers, and especially those for whose work the need has ceased, we expect the Minister of Labour and Employment, and the former president of the Association of Free and Independent Unions, to support our proposals, because for him as one of the founders of the union, a union activist, a shame, probably, that such a law should be brought to life and that, as a consequence of the application of this law, many people in the 50s remain completely unprotected on the street with a uncertain ability to establish a new working relationship, to be employed or to start working for years with some private initiative, to enable themselves to survive. It's hard for me to believe that our union minister forgot what he said in the election campaign, and I watched him a few times in Nis, too, when that barrel was brought in and invited citizens to throw electricity bills, to refuse obedience to employers, to go out into the streets. This was done by the workers of the "Electron Industry", a constant traffic blockade, promised to be better, to be expected for a brighter future, and only in the elections to round up the regular number under which the Democratic Opposition of Serbia was registered. However, perhaps the minister could have forgotten a lot. It's easy to forget about "audia 8," "Mercedes," you know, there's 500 out there in "audia" 18, 190, pleasantly cooled and then you say, "Be patient, people, it'll be a little fresher for you too, it just takes time to pass." Mr. Ministers of Labour and Employment, and former union president, in the Law that was applied while Serbian Radicals participated in the government, a 30-year-old worker, in determining the termination of the need for his work, to obtaining a new job, employment or to obtaining the right under the pension law, was paid what -- such material compensation and it was in some way insufficient, but the worker was nevertheless provided for some minimum needs, to say that he could at least survive. However, it was a rotten, backward, undemocratic and unnatural government. (Minister Milovanovic, from the post: Correct. ) It is true of the Ministers. Now, Mr. Minister of Labour and Employment, and former president of the Association of Free and Independent Trade Unions, your fresh, advanced, democratic and people's power pays two years' wages to a worker with over 30 years' employment, and then goes to the street. We paid only until retirement, and you for two whole years, and that's an important difference, and that's something that you've brought in as a newspaper and something that increases the level of protection of workers, especially those whose work has stopped the need. I honestly don't believe that you have read or perhaps not read it carefully, so there are 23 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party persistently trying to remind you of some points of this law, some members, who are going to significantly worsen the status of workers and we are trying to influence you as a unionist, so that you can stand up to the government's session to say - I can't do this, the people trusted me, I became a minister because I was the union president, because I promised people that they would get better and because I honestly believed it. This way, Mr. Minister, and the former president of the union, everything you said in the election campaign falls into the water, and on the basis of your example, the people sees that everything DOS promised in the election campaign is not possible, that it was a false promise and that you do not intend to make it happen. Can you, as union president, as a working mother, break your promises and propose a law that is truly harmful to the interests of most employees, especially in the process of the upcoming transition and privatisation, when indeed a large number of people will be out of work, and currently in Serbia there are about 750,000 workers who are jobless. About 50% of them are 25 to 35 years of employment. I'm saying I believe that you haven't read this law, or at least you haven't read it carefully, because let's say you read it carefully you wouldn't let a man at 52, 53 years of age walk into the street. You seem to have more fun with your party buddies than listening to the presentation of MPs. However, I ask you, if the MPs of the DOS do not disturb you, so that you will closely monitor this and intervene on the creation of employee status. There can't be anyone stimulated by this law looking for a new job. What a man in his 50s is going to do in a few years, maybe open a trade, open a small shop, but before that, you've made sure to destroy the taxes and that hope and people's will to do some other business. And here, we'll soon have the most likely, in maybe a few months, to sell "Cementare" in Old Popovec. You created conditions for a future strategic partner, or one to buy cement, to lose a large number of workers, and above all those who have 25 and more years of internships, to get cheaply what has been invested in years, and that those who have invested and did so are on the street and out of work. After all, I think this law has been set up by Batic. Because Batic has nothing else to do with this government, but by creating, by trying to harm some political parties, and above all to the Serbian Radical Party. And, Mr. Minister of Labour and Employment, and former president of the Association of Free and Independent Unions, I'm very interested, that this law, you're proud of it further, I'm very interested in what your union, as you trade unions say, the base, thinks about this law. Have you spoken to members of your unions, have you heard the opinion of these basic union organisations? Have you explained to them all the advantages of this law? Have you explained to my peers, I'm approaching some fifty years, what it means when they receive 24 months' benefits, and then they're waiting well for about five or six years until they're entitled to retirement. Do they agree with that? What I managed to talk to these people for a short time, I don't think they accept what you're offering this law and that it really significantly reduces their rights already achieved. And on this bill, Mr. Minister of Labour and Employment, and former union president, you confirm that DOS is indeed the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5579	The word is from the People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic, followed by MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5580	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the happy Serbian people or the government in refugee or exile, as many call it, has given us another in a series of brilliant legal projects that will make the citizens of Serbia so happy that, as David Strbac would say, "From the great mileage they won't be able to breathe." The draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Rights Act is the principle of the work of the new DOS government and represents a crucial legislative project for several of the following reasons: this law is called the Employment Law, which, of course, will not be, on the exercise of rights which will also not be, of course, the unemployed persons who will be. The minister himself noted in his statement that the law was passed, among other things, and because of the risk of unemployment in the upcoming privatisation process. I don't agree with the minister here. There will be no risk of unemployment. There's no such thing as a risk. There's a certainty of unemployment. All legal projects go towards it, not to prevent risks, but to reduce spending to the state and leave empty factory halls to the strategic partners abroad, to make it cheaper during the privatisation process. With a set of tax laws, you've taxed everything and everything. You have increased budget revenues, both nominally and realistically, or at least planned them at such amounts. But that's why you've barely nominally, and in no way realistically, increased the allocations to the beneficiaries of the budget. There are no higher salaries in public services, no social benefits, no unemployment benefits, and you've already produced over 100,000 unemployed, and you've already closed down almost all the factories where something was produced. You, Mr. Minister, have managed to perform a miracle. You have managed to come up with a proposal for a legal project that is equally bad for both employees and those who will be jobless and for employers. For employers, because you have increased the base on which they are calculated and paid contributions to employees. One, for employees and for those who will be jobless, because the employer after the payment of the contribution will not have the money to pay the workers a profit, under two, for reducing the percentage of the cash compensation, below three, and for reducing the time period for which the fee is paid. A special story is intricacy and illiteracy in the very text of the law. Again, the numbers of members of the old and new law are mixed, again some members of the law are deleted, and then as such, even though they are already out of legal traffic, they are mentioned again in the further text of the law. The other thing, which is amazing, is basic ignorance of a simple account. The basics are the same for a whole set of laws in this package regarding work, employment and social assistance to unemployed people. Here's an example - the basis on which you count and pay contributions to jobs for which you require expertise acquired by a doctorate is 12,724 dinars. According to data from the day before yesterday, in the teaching process, as teaching staff, 9,740 teachers are currently working at universities in Serbia. Even if we go down with total contributions to those 70% to 80%, as you promised, monthly contributions are only 124 million dinars for teaching staff, and times 12 months, that's about a billion and 500 million dinars, just for teaching staff. And with the budget, two billion 360 million dinars are foreseen for salaries in higher education and higher education. It won't be enough to cover the total salary contributions. What happens now? Those people who are 25 and 30 years of employment, before the law enters into force, will normally either resign or settle with employers to fire them and thus maintain their rights under the old law. The army of people will be on the burden of state and unemployment funds. Who's seen some benefit to the state, if she's going to pay pensions and benefits and contributions by the time these people leave? Who smartly remembered to erase the attitude of a law that would really refer to a smaller percentage of workers? So it's not about the state's interest. It is the interest of strategic partners, who will buy factories, and what they pay the state, the state will spend on unemployment benefits. This brilliant way of destroying and destroying the state could only come up with DOS power. Another pearl of this law is the closure of the company for 30 to 90 days. Now, one very practical question -- who will and how will pay this and all the other contributions in that period? Where, in addition to the M4 or M4-k form, a copy of the Accounting and Payment Office is required to be provided as evidence of payment of the contribution. There is no copy, because the company doesn't work, and the payment of the contributions is not back because it allows it legally. And when he's gone, then there's no social, no health care, no retirement, and there's no reward for the unemployed. So, I really think that what you've delivered to us for consideration, and what I can call a lazier than a legal proposal, must be withdrawn immediately and prepared for a serious bill. Because there's a serious problem with overall unemployment at the dock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5581	The word is by MP Marijan Risticevic, followed by the people of Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5582	Dear viewers, you who later joined the program, these rights were given to us by those who today complain that they had no rights. There were several opposition MPs in the last meeting, and it was not a good will for the voters who chose them to hear them. With the circumstances, because of the boycott of the election of other democratic forces, there were several of us. We haven't said a single bad word to the commentators, we haven't complained, we're not legal on a pay phone, we're not like savages pulling microphones. Today, those who have all rights to the former opposition are usurped, complaining about some of their rights and wearing yellow ribbons. What these gentlemen left behind: for twelve years they ruled with the help of their court servants, I hope that many will be recognized here, 12 years ruled, destroyed the state, and should only say that the external debt... (Serbian Radical Party ambassadors earn) the country's $12.5 billion. Internal debts are $21.5 billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5583	Don't throw it away, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5584	The external and internal debt is over $30 billion. According to economic theory, when the external debt of a country crosses 80% of the gross social product, that state is bankrupt. You've left us a country that's been bankrupt three times. These are the main reasons why unemployment is high, why labour employment is small and those who are employed, half of them are fictitiously employed. What did you leave us? Something in between. You left us the state and you didn't leave. The state exists and doesn't exist. You left us the boundaries and didn't leave. We have an anthem and we don't have an anthem. We have a flag and we don't have a flag. We have a coat of arms and we don't have a coat of arms. We have holidays and we don't have holidays. We have a business and we don't have a business. We had employees, now we don't have employees. You, gentlemen, sent 12 years ago to work in factories, and then by your politics and policies, you made your factory assistants social institutions. In those factories, workers worked and didn't work. They got paid and they didn't get paid. They had a job internship, and they didn't have a job internship. You took jobs for the workers. You told them -- well, now we're gonna fight, if we didn't know we were working, we'll know we were fighting.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5585	Please still focus on the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5586	I'm talking about the draft employment law and I'm talking about the reasons that led to huge unemployment. So, you've shared your rifles with your employees instead of your jobs. They fought, the workers fought, and you maimed them. That's why they're unemployed. Instead of jobs, you gave them guns.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5587	Don't throw it away, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5588	Now you're sorry. You're the one who got the workers busy without getting paid. This law aims to know exactly who is employed and who is not employed, what is the earnings and what is the working time, whether there is a job internship or not. You have workers without a job internship. A thousand workers don't know they don't have a job internship. Pension and disability contributions are paid only for a retired worker. You are objecting to us today, if there were shame and shame, some MPs from the former ruling parties would not go out for this pay phone at all. You've taken jobs for the workers, you've led to the situation - rip grass, disguise yourself. Like you said, we're going to eat roots, etc. You are representatives of cave Serbia. I only object to the government for not going to the end of economic and political reforms, to make two basic tracks -- the country's political order and the country's economic order. I resent the government for not going faster into investing foreign capital in this country, for workers to reach jobs. It's the right way. Your path, the way of hate is not the way. Your path has shown that workers are left without jobs, without houses, etc. So don't talk about unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5589	The word has the People's MP Bora Stanimirovic, followed by Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5590	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Minister, if you would look, given that every day we mention that there is no government, that there are no government members, they've probably abdicated, but I wouldn't talk about it. We need to understand both the representatives and the members of the government, we've been discussing the laws for a very long time, and I don't think they could or would have time to attend this session all the time. But I would ask that when a law is discussed, to be a representative, or minister and his team, of the law from his portfolio. If that is not available, there is no minister or his assistant or deputy, or team, I would suggest that the law be withdrawn from the procedure. Secondly, last time I spoke, when it came to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Law, it was necessary to practically pass new laws, since we change everything, change the system, change socio-economic formation, enter the initial accumulation, enter into some new systems, and if so, and yet we haven't had it before in Serbia, but after everything that's happened, it's changed. Take an example of this law, article 1, which changed over several years, so look, in 1992 we have three changes; in 1993 we have two changes, during 1994, 1996 and 1998, and then we come safely to those remarks that we heard the other day that a member of ð, j, k1, 2, 3 and so on. That is why I propose in the future that this assembly and the President of the Assembly, affect the legislators in the future, given everything we've done, we have refined laws that we can discuss. This is all a waste of time, because in a month or two or three, we're going to have to bring these laws back together. Secondly, when it comes to Article 3, I would just mention this base that's constantly being mentioned, and I think that's why we've changed these members, because that base has changed, and it's normal that then everything has to change. But what falls particularly into the eyes, which is Article 27j, is changed and attitude 4, and says, "Minister in charge of Labour, Minister of Finance and Economy Affairs, Minister of Health and Minister of Social Affairs, agreely prescribes a way of accounting." So this is a triumvirate and I'm not counting on this fourth minister, it's not going to have any impact, but this triumphate decides how the contributions are going to be calculated. Not only that, but they also predict the content of the form in Article 3. Whether it will be done by the ministry, whether the government's portfolio will work, but in no way triumph, no ministers -- can decide, and we have repeatedly criticised it in other situations. Furthermore, much has been discussed when it comes to the selection of the board of directors. Article 33 is amended and reads as follows: "The Management Board of the Institute has 15 members". This is about the Republic Institute, but it will refer later to all the institutions in the Republic. And it is already noted at the beginning, if the board of directors, i.e. the president and members of the boards of directors of the institute appoints and resolves the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then exactly how many members, i.e. two members of the unemployed, by two members of the union who have more than 10,000 workers and two members from the employer's association, will decide. It is a total of eight members, and seven members are appointed independently of this criterion. The government of 15 has guaranteed 7, and those remarks that we have just heard that two delegates, or members, are proposing a union that has more than 10,000 workers, and we have already mentioned during the discussion that these will likely be 10th, then the government and the Priory will have a majority on the board and will decide. We were saying, say, when we passed a law on the university that it was a non-civilization law because the government also determines boards, directors, Deans in schools. Now we're practically going back to the same. The government is now deciding, because it has an absolute majority. She's got seven members of 15, and she's got two guaranteed. So every decision, Mr. Minister, nothing's funny. (Dragan Milovanovic: How can seven be most? ) It is exactly the 7th majority, because one indent says exactly that the government is likely to propose these two unions. It's going to be more than 7, it's going to be 9. I'd like to ask you to explain that later. You can explain that in math. Next, we're going back to what's already been criticised, and that's article 27j-1. This is what we criticise, that it is necessary to pass a new law, if the employer does not pay the earnings no later than 30th of the month for the previous month, it is necessary to make contributions to the lowest basis set out in Article 27j, position 2 of this law. For God's sake, a man can't manage here. It's like someone was deliberately trying to make everything so complicated, because the essence of this law cannot be understood, and no one cares who pays for it. So taxes and contributions have to be paid, even if they don't pay the workers. In order for the government to survive, no matter what consequences it would have for others, let's say for workers, for employers, for businesses, and so on. If she's not thinking about the repercussions that come out of it, then she's into futurulology. However, our only acknowledged futurologist is Mr. Milan St. Adversary. He predicted exactly when and how he could become mayor of Belgrade and how many days he would perform the post. As soon as he arrived in the United States, he had not yet handed over his credentials, asking journalists what he thought of NATO's aggression in Yugoslavia, he said he correctly hit that aggression would last 78 days. Just a few days after that, he said when Mr. Slobodan Milosevic would be arrested and was precise. He hit an hour's arrest, but in American time. Mr. Protic can guess how much someone will live.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5591	There is no Mr. Protic in this law and I ask you to move to law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5592	It's a big deal. We'll see about that later. He reported from Washington not only how much Mr Milosevic will be convicted, but also when he will end his life in prison. It would be good to have Mr Protic predicting how many days he will remain in office as ambassadors to the United States, because it will be the best indicator that significant changes will take place at the time on Serbia's political stage.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5593	The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic, followed by MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5594	The Honorable Presidency, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, allow me only in the first sentence to express a complete misunderstanding for applause because of a destructive speech, which he gave to this speaker, a colleague from the DOS, because only in his statement was the law we are considering today. Although a number of legitimate objections have been made so far to the proposal for this law and amendments to the Employment and Rights Act, I have the need to present some more facts that I would like eventually to list the ruling majority of DOS to accept at least some of the amendments that we Socialists have offered and offer along with this proposal, as well as the amendments that we will consider later. Since, on many occasions, it has been pointed out by DOS representatives for this speaker so far that the ruling majority is very important that, in some ways, the working class is being approached by this speaker -- me socialists, here I say, that is certainly not so. It's not like that when it comes to me, I mean, here, I'm not going to mention the workers, I'm going to give up my employment background, but I need to ask Mr. Milovanovic a question. Where, according to Article 1 of the new law, where is the fee paid to an unemployed person for 24 months, if it has been secured for 25 years and more, will college-educated people who are technologically surplus and who are starting to get even more? You know that the Technological College, which I've graduated from, could be the fastest in the 24th and the year of the army, it's in the 25th year and a man can start a working relationship. Who's going to take to the job of engineers of any 50 or 55-year-old profession today? Who will receive a doctor, teacher or teacher at that age, because they remain and will be out of a job. It's for this category of employees, the abolition of the right to receive after 30 years of work a fee for employment or to go into disability and retirement, which is, I'd say, a real crime, because these people really have nowhere to work and have nothing else to do. To take my example, I spent 30 years in the chemical industry dealing with very beautiful products, very nice cosmetics production, what could I do if I lost my job? The only thing I'm stealing is the factory secrets of the Neven Chemical Industry and selling them on black. This category of employees through its 30-year work has just singled out and singled out the most funds for the unemployed, because the separation was done at a unique rate, and it is logical that the admissions of university educated people were always higher than others. Therefore, dear colleagues, I think it is logical that this proposed amendment of the law in Article 1 is not accepted, as much as this remark had the Council of the Union of Serbia at the meeting following a 5 April strike of warning, and this was presented as an amendment and by Minister Djelic at a public session of the Council in the House of Trade Hall, and he was under the impression that the amendment was by Minister Djelic. When it comes to the fact that the Jablani District, from which I come, has about 30,000 unemployed, that Leskovac municipality has 20,000 unemployed, then the question is rightly asked, when will future employers after the privatisation process, who will inevitably come very quickly and match probably with the application of this law, when will they hire people 50 or 55 years old, when they have a choice of people in the 20s and 30s? Dear colleagues and colleagues, I cannot complete my presentation without calling on Article 3. The bill, although the basics for payment of contributions have been practically adopted and to say that these are the basics, based on the talks I also had at the Employment Office in Leskovac and on working organizations in the economy and non-economics of the Jablanic district, is practically an illusion of the government. It will certainly be the unfulfilled dream of the ministry and the minister. Because when it is known that the area of the Jablani District has 2,415 cash compensation users and that about 10.5 million dinars per month are allocated for these purposes, in the current law, that these rights will be transferred further, and that the users of these monthly fees in Leskovec have not yet been paid in January, and we are already deeply trampling in May, then the most serious question is, how will the new law be implemented at all. True, its consequences for beneficiaries of monetary compensation will begin to feel only in October of the month, if this delay of four or five months is compensated in the meantime, or only in early 2002, if it remains in this delay. According to the ability of the economy to objectively allocate funds for these needs, with all the legal threats that will be passed by this law, it is unrealistic and unreal and the government's expectations are that what this law provides will be fulfilled. So I would be free to say that the ministry should go out with the amendments, that those employers who pay guaranteed earnings and contributions from this area should pay only from the beginning of 2002, or that for other foundations they lower to 50%, as already suggested by one of my party colleagues. Finally, not only do I criticise, in the opinion and experience of people working in employment offices, the first position of Article 2 of this law offers a better solution to determine the amount of cash compensation, as it takes into account the earnings of the last three months, preceding the month in which the worker stops working, preventing possible abuses that occurred only by the last payout of his personal income prior to the termination of the employment relationship. However, when someone offers you a legal proposal that damages both employers and workers, because the employer will single out more and the unemployed worker will get less, then, respected colleagues, the man still has to vote against adopting this proposal without any doubt. Because when you follow logic if the employer sets out more, it would be normal for the unemployed to get more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5595	The word is by MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5596	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, today when we are having a debate on the proposal, I would like to present a few of my views on the Law on Employment and the exercise of the rights of unemployed workers. First of all, I understand the power, the new power, which wants to change things, of course, wants to change for sure for the better. It's her wish, and I don't think there's a government that rules, which doesn't want the citizens to be okay, that everyone's okay. I understand the pre-election promises, which must also be fulfilled. I know it's the key to getting the economy going, because material production is an alpha and an omega of everything. Without material production, there are no taxes, no contributions, no budgets, and when there are no budgets, there are no funds for upgrades, means for education, for culture, for sport, for health care, for judicial authorities, for the state administration and so on. There's no progress in any country. However, I feel that all these laws being made, that is - the Labour Relations Act, the Employment Act, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, are adapted to making it easier to carry out the ownership transformation of capital. There have come young people who have forgotten or forgotten that time is passing very quickly and that, gentlemen, you who are young, who make these laws, will have a very fast 43 to 50 years and have some right, or conditions, that you may be declared a technological surplus, or that it has ceased the need for your work. You forget that and we go from extreme to extreme. I am for the creation of conditions for ownership transformation, I am also for taking care of workers and, since I've worked in the economy for 40 years, I know our workers very well. These are neither Romanians nor Bulgarians nor Hungarians, our workers are extremely good. They are highly professional, possessing both knowledge and manual skills when they are in production. I don't think there's a lot of workers like that, and that's something we can boast about. After all, all our workers who find themselves abroad, because they are well paid, show the best results. We will now have great conditions under these laws, we will have a low capital price, so that any strategic partner who decides whether it is from Serbia or the international community, means it will have favourable conditions and, as far as the country is concerned, it will have much more favourable conditions for his investment to be protected. It will have a good market and cheap labour, and I don't see that we need to make such a ownership transformation that the new employer pays off his investment in a few months, or a few years. Let me give you an example. Please, this is very interesting because this example is very controversial, and this is the sale of works by Telekom Srbija to partners, Italians and Greeks, that it has been determined from sales, and this is also by the Oditrian international companies who have had the experience, that in Telekom Serbia should not work more than 6,000 to 6,500 workers. The previous government has conditioned that Telekom Srbija must have 13,500 workers and that a technological surplus should not be established within 5 years. That's one benefit for the workers. It was calculated that this company was going to develop, and it was developing, which one day you're going to see for yourself, they had good profits, that they could simply prepare for some technological surplus. Today, a technological surplus is already being established in many companies and workers are being fired. I don't want this government to get into any trouble. As a citizen, I want the citizens to be okay, that there are no social tensions, there are no social unrest, but I'm afraid by law one out of I don't know how many hundreds of thousands of workers, who will be 43 to 55 years old, will lose their jobs and be paid only 24 months with a minimum of 40% and a maximum of 80% of Serbia's economy. I suggest that this law be postponed and not applied for three years. When I propose this, I suggest for the reason that, when the ownership transformation occurs, these companies will start to function, and they will start for sure, then these workers will also have bigger personal incomes after three years, or profits in those three years, and they will be able to get through this problem much easier. Here, there's already a law on ownership transformation here. Strategic partners should be conditioned not to determine the technological surplus of workers for a certain period of time. I think we need to make sure that strategic partners come to us, and we also can't forget the workers who have spent their whole lives in the creation of these companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5597	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5598	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another law, as Mr. Minister says, which is in the interest of workers and citizens. So far we have listened, according to Minister Djelic, who also claims that his tax regulations are in the interest of citizens, and now they call him from the mercy of "God's Derikoza". In view of this law, you can see (an ambassador from the O.R.: this is an insult)... This is from the people, no offense, we're MPs, gentlemen, we didn't come from the West, at least we from the Serbian Radical Party. As far as this law is concerned, I can see that he is extremely coordinated with Djelic's legal regulations, that what little is done, and what few are workers, who can work today and make a living, are sent on forced vacations, paid, actually unpaid leave, or fired. If that were the case, it is most visible from Article 3 of this Act, where the basis for paying for contributions for workers is determined. If I don't talk about the fact that this law doesn't predict that profits have to pay off, so I'm going to give Mr. Secretary a simpler example, I don't know if he can figure it out. But to tell him that the largest number of workers in Serbia today with medium professional training, where there is a basis for over 5,000 dinars, in particular 5,262 dinars, and to charge taxes. Now I'm going to show it to him on one case, a small independent trade store, which has one owner, and by law, two workers, as it goes. If the employer is obliged to pay off contributions to this amount, he needs to make a turnover of 35,000 new dinars, gross traffic, if there are two workers, it is 75 thousand new dinars, and since the law provides that the employer himself must charge his own salary, we come up with a figure of 105 thousand dinars. If the employer dares to pay the wages, we come to see that it takes 210 thousand new dinars for one of the most ordinary independent shops, which can hardly make a gross turnover of 300,000 dinars today. During all of this, we did not take into account all the other charges that come with it, which are electricity, municipal taxes, transport costs, maintenance of equipment and so on. With which means the employer will manage to make up for it - he has only two options left: either to close his STR and fire two workers, which is certainly not in the interests of the workers, or to increase his prices. By increasing prices, we're coming back to that part called inflation, which I've already told Mr. Bozidar Djelic, I don't think this minister will understand. Now, if we put ourselves in the position of producer companies, so, not commercial, there is a technological and technical process of production that requires a much larger number of workers, not to mention that they are looking for special accounting. Or, to put ourselves in the place of large businesses, and even companies, which, because of these and similar laws, have to draw an extremely large administration, where even workers have to be with higher and high professional preparation, we come to the conclusion that everything in Serbia that remains of the store will be closed. Now, I don't believe that this law, frankly, could have been written by a minister who is so humanely capable, I believe that this law is written somewhere outside of this country, that even a little bit of what it has would have ruined, so that their owners and owners of DOS would get in here quite nicely and automatically and have all the economic and natural resources that Serbia has. So, Mr. Minister, this law that you've passed cannot possibly be in the interests of the workers, and you're always talking about representing their interests. How do you represent their interests, when the workers of this law will be fired? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5599	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5600	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Rights Act is extremely important because of the fact that, according to the Labour Market Office in February 2001, around 736 000 are unemployed, and given the trend in the decline of industrial production, there will be more and more. Compared to 2000, the number of unemployed rose by 4.5%. Already now, industrial production is lower by 1.2% in January-March 2001 compared to the average production in 2000, which suggests that soon the number of unemployed will be enormously higher, and all of this before the entry into force of the provisions of the new tax laws package, which will further worsen the situation, according to reports by all trade unions from new businesses. Many of the current workers will soon be in a position to be bound by this law and to be bound by it, meaning that they will, in practice, be out of a job. In the proposal for this law, the right of an unemployed person, which has been secured for 30 and more years, shall be abolished on a fee paid to his employment, i.e. to meet the conditions for the exercise of the right to retirement. At the same time, a provision is introduced that the right to cash compensation can be achieved for a maximum period of 24 months. As a reason for such a solution, the unemployed were not encouraged to seek employment. In my humble opinion, no matter how small a man in his 50s or 60s life is stimulated, or rather forced to look for a job, he will hardly be found, because no employer will receive a worker of those years, when there are already so many young, unemployed people. I think this solution should be thoroughly reviewed before such a law creates tens of thousands of hopeless social cases in Serbia. In terms of the amount of that cash compensation, the solution so far has been 70% of net earnings, and it is now proposed to be 60% of the average unemployment income achieved in accordance with the law and the collective contract, in the last three months, preceding the month in which he ends his employment relationship, increased by 2% for each year of his employment, and that cash compensation cannot be lower than 40%, or more than 80% of the average salary per employee. The explanation is that the amount of cash compensation in the nominal amount will remain the same and the percentages will change because of the principle of gross earnings. The promoter therefore considers that a warm meal, a regress for vacation, a field supplement, will enter into account through gross earnings, and overlooks the fact that employers already announce that they will not have any interest, nor will they be able to pay the above-mentioned benefits to workers. What I could do in this law, possibly, to welcome is to tighten the payment control of contributions, because indeed many, primarily young people, have worked without payment of contributions. It may have been necessary to avoid the complexity of the process of notification of payment of contributions, since there is also the Office for Accounting and Payment, and the Tax Administration, and the Pension-Inhabitation and Health Insurance Office, but this is a technical question, however, not so irrelevant, which may be corrected in the next period. There may have been a need to avoid the complexity of the process of notification of payment of contributions, as there are also bills for payment and tax administrations and the Institute for PIO and health insurance, but it is a technical issue, and not so irrelevant. It can be repaired in the next period. Since the application of the gross earnings accounting system begins already 1. This year, as soon as possible, a precise and clear method of calculation and payment of contributions, as well as the content of the form itself, should be established, in order to warn even in this technical sense, which, in addition to the existing ambiguities, may arise. That's what technical preconditions for the creation of chaos are all about. Essential reasons are essential, and therefore, given the economic strength of most domestic operators, it is unrealistic to expect them to be able to pay contributions in the amounts provided for in this law. I don't want to remind you, you all know very well what your sums are for medium professional equipment. So somewhere more than 5,000 dinars. I have to remind myself that they didn't have the number of economic operators, and especially from the textile industry or agriculture, they were freed from the payment of the share or the total contribution, precisely because of poor economic power. First, it is not true that the basis for the gross contribution remained at the same level and on which they were established in the net amount. They're much bigger. A huge number of business operators and employers will either not pay them, which could lead to the collapse of the mandatory social security system, or will fire a larger number of workers, which could lead to major social unrest. Because of all of this, I feel that this law should not be passed, and let me end up having a little dyscram against the agenda, since the minister is here, and it's about a man who's been very connected to him. So, about his colleague, Bratislava Đurić, because he was extremely engaged in events in our easternmost municipality, in Dimitrovgrad. To remind all the MPs, to the shame of all of us and to the shame of the entire legal system of this country, there is a situation that is still working in Dimitrovgrad, despite the fact that there is no majority. She doesn't have the necessary quorum to work without our government responding to it. Representatives of such an illegal and illegal congregation of the municipality continue to maintain contact, perhaps by reputation of some of their predecessors from neighboring municipalities...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5601	Mr. Todorovic, I warn you it's not a topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5602	They keep important contacts with some neighbouring countries. Thus, the government does not react to an eclatanical violation of the law, and it also introduces a forced administration in the municipality of Bela Palanka in addition to the lack of conditions for this. I'd like everyone to pay attention and pay attention to that fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5603	The last registered candidate for the discussion is MP Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5604	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the Honorable Presidency, in the exposé of the Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, this problem has been given more space and more attention. But it must be noted that its exposure, related to this problem and the draft law on employment and the exercise of the right of unemployed persons, represents two substances diametrically contrary to each other. In his exposé, Mr Djindjic notes that one of the burning problems, which must be solved, is unemployment and a low standard of living. According to official results, around 2.2 million people were employed in Serbia, with around 820,000 unemployed, which is about 27%. However, not only is there a huge number of unemployed, but we also have problems in the structure of employees. About 500,000 people work in enterprises that are permanently inequitable, so we can treat these employees as people who don't have a job in fact. That's an extra 15%. A total of over 40% unemployed. Out of the total number of employees, around 400,000 people are paid out of the state budget. It is no doubt an excessive number for the format of our economy, because everything should be added to the obligation of regular payment of about 1.3 million pensions per month. No wonder the system fell apart. The new government's intention is to restructure the economy and transfer the employment structure, so that two million employees have stable and high-quality jobs. The number of employees in the state administration will be reduced by at least 20%. However, it is not enough to improve the structure of existing employment. Our task is to enable new jobs to be created by attracting investment. That is why it is necessary to restore technology and restore the qualification structure. Technology will go where people know and want to work. So, the strategic priority is to educate the workforce for the new economy. We shouldn't regret old technology, we should turn to the challenges of the future. We have to be prepared for them, which means qualified and trained. That's why big investments are needed, but these are the most just investment, investments in people. It's our chance for young people, for all people who are young by age, or with spirit and energy young. Also, we will seek to bring back as many of our experts who have left the country as possible by improving the conditions of life and business, which we have assured ourselves is the return of Bozidar Djelic, the current finance minister. We'll try to stop the further drain of our brains by decisive action, and our top experts will be right back as soon as they have a decent job. Ladies and gentlemen, what to say after this, it's all too high. By passing a law like this, Mr. Zoran Djindjic's exposé falls into the water. The government wants to free itself of surplus labour, with less compensation for workers, with as little responsibility as possible. It has once again proved that the pre-election promises of DOS authorities are filled with great lies and fraud. I always point out behind this pay phone that every law regarding employees and their fates has not been consulted with the social interest organisations of the citizens of the unions. In the Law on Employment and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons, according to the solution so far, an unemployed person who had been insured for 30 and more years was entitled to a cash compensation for employment, i.e. to the exercise of pension rights. The current Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Law on the exercise of the right of unemployed persons to a cash refund may give rise to a maximum of 24 months. This is a serious problem to deal with. Gentlemen of the DOS, you insist that so far the people who have been at the Bureau until retirement weren't encouraged to look for a job. Do you wonder how a man can have optimism and will to look for work, follow ads, go to talk to his employer? In a country where most companies do not work and where there is an army of unemployed young people who are the employer who will rather hire a man who is several years ahead of retirement but who is 20 years old. A new law on the privatisation of social enterprises will leave a lot of people out of work. At my mineral fertilizer factory, with the lowest internship, there's a 15-year-old intern. Most of them are the ones with the lowest education. Will they ever get a job again? And among them there will certainly be persons with an insurance internship for over 20 and over 30 years. But you don't have to worry. When all these laws enter into force in Serbia as of 1 June, except in state services, they will no longer be employed. Everyone who worked in the company will be on the labour market. Systematic identification of the overall reconstruction of the fiscal system and the introduction of the gross earnings system require changes also in the area of compulsory social security. Under mandatory social security, employees exercise pension and disability, health insurance and unemployment insurance rights. The principle on which compulsory insurance is based is that the scope of the rights depends on the volume of investment of each employee. Also, in this system there must be a principle of solidarity. As we've seen, the lowest base is 3,000 and the highest is 12,724 dinars. The introduction of a gross system establishes a single gross basis for paying taxes and contributions to compulsory social security from earnings. The gross earnings now include other personal incomes that the employer must pay on the basis of a working relationship, such as a food allowance during work, a regression for the use of annual holidays and a field allowance, which extends the employer's obligations and reduces the contribution rate. Mr. Dragan Milovanovic, Minister of Labour and Employment, as a metal man and student before the end of the study, is unable to process and defend the law. I can tell you this myself because I'm about to finish my doctoral dissertation and I feel a great freedom to assess Dragan's abilities and ability to solve this problem. I therefore propose to the Assembly and the President of the Assembly that this law be withdrawn from the procedure, that it be re-adjusted and explained by a qualified person, because I believe that this law is unfair, restrictive and that it should not be accepted as such. In the end, I'm going to leave a little bit of a topic, today our representatives of the government are overrun by the whole world, as great Democrats, they're torturing their people with promises and destroying the economy, selling their country to Serbia. It's called DOS' democratic power. At my place in Capco, they say, the dog's changed, and the chain's the same. I read the other day that Minister for Business and Privatisation Restructuring Aleksandar Vlahovic announced and sold the factory for one dollar. I don't know if it's his father-in-law or his grandfather-in-law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5605	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Law on the exercise of the right of unemployed persons in question. For 116, against 40, with no abstention, no vote of 10, a total of 166 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. National MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Bozidar Vucurović, Radojko Petrovic, Miomir Ilic, Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept these amendments. Do the applicants want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5606	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am convinced that we and in the debate in principle have explained enough this amendment and other amendments, but we should remind you, too, who were once again not enough to vote on this law, so you had to quorum to provide through those of us who voted against, which is clearly seen from the results of the vote. We now have to remind you once again, especially you who will vote without thinking, of the fact that certain rights that workers have so far been denied to this Article 1. We can discuss many laws one way or another, to interpret what will happen, and to be convinced by the government's representatives that we are wrong, to say that people will be out of work, and you can say that they will not remain, but here it is quite clear -- the one who is left out of a job will have far less rights than the one who has so far lost his job. I really didn't expect a left-wing government to endanger the interests of unemployed workers with its bill of law. This government is left-wing because I see her president in Germany at the left-wing party. Today you convinced us, and I listened to the Prime Minister on TV the other day, that this slowness in lawmaking is only at the expense of workers, since there is no law on privatisation. To God, the law would have been passed long ago if it hadn't been for obstructions in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I must now say to all of you, it is possible that you who represent the majority in this assembly have in the hands of the Privatisation Bill, but the MP group of the Serbian Radical Party still, as official material, as an act, as a proposal, even if signed by this Vuk Obradovic, has not received a proposal for a law on privatisation. The law did not enter the assembly procedure, and at least at least it is fair that the Prime Minister does not mention a law that does not exist in the assembly procedure and does not accuse the opposition of not passing the law. It would be good if we had a representative of the government, and I'm not counting on the minister sitting in the bench today, but just one real representative of the government, to come out this morning and tell us what's going on in the Serbian government? We really left you a building almost completely reconstructed, and it was hit by a NATO bomb, we left you professional employees in that building and a democratic and human atmosphere there, and now I hear you're hanging around the government with your pants down. Serbia's public has the right to know what the government is doing in the government building of the Republic of Serbia, what are individuals doing and what is the government's responsibility for what is happening? (Glass from the O.R.: Theme. The theme is really serious, only you won't admit it. If you really wanted to build the society you're telling us about and these laws, so far the Prime Minister would have come out for this pay phone and done something. I know what he should do, I don't know what he would do. But still a serious Prime Minister would go out for this pay phone and say, "Citizens of Serbia, it either happened or didn't happen, it's happening or it's not happening." (loud from the O.R.: He's not here.) All right, there's going to be a rally of leftist parties, and the Prime Minister will be back. I really ask you not to endanger the interests of employees in the Serbian government building. You didn't win the election to force the crowds of employees working there. It's an inhumane, inhumane attitude towards employees. Then it's completely proven our claim that you don't think of employees by this law either. That's why I tried to amend a law that didn't work, so that part of the old law that was working and that would still work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5607	Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5608	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't even know which way we're meeting with, less - the same situation. The opposition criticises the authorities because the government cannot offer citizens of this society more than what society has in reality at this time. This is a good proposal and he, in fact, existed in the Law that, by adopting this law, would cease to apply. But this proposal cannot be implemented by this government. The government cannot provide the funds it would be obliged to provide. What this government will do is contained in the bill of law that we went out with. For those of you who remain, for reasons we don't have to talk about today, and we can, at least because of the privatisation law, and much more because of everything that's been going on in the last few years, so to those who are out of a job, and who have more than, as the sixth position puts it, 25 and less than 30 years of work experience, we will provide 24 months of budget funding. That's what we can do. I'm talking about what we're proposing. So, I'm not talking about what we're going to do, and your proposal is that whatever our limit is, we provide these funds to obtain pension rights, but where do we get these funds? In a country where 735,000 people don't work, and 770,000 people just work fictitiously, they actually spend their working lives on a forced vacation. In a country that rests on the economy and on 25 billion marks of each other, in a country that owes a new 250,000 marks each hour to a foreign country on behalf of interest. We're talking about what our real options are. The law that will cease to apply, I am convinced, by supporting the government's bill, has been amended several times. In 1992, he was changed three times, in 1993 he was changed twice, and in 1994 he was changed once. I hope that we will soon be able to change our relationship in our society, to build a stable economy that will be able to meet that social obligation, which has certainly arisen as a need that we very gladly, already at this moment take on ourselves, so that we can say who will provide it to those who are unemployed and where these jobs can withstand such burdens. Unfortunately, there is no such thing at this point and we are obliged to tell the citizens the truth. For twenty-four months, this state will be able to bear that kind of obligation at this moment, and we hope that within the next 24 months we will be able to re-change this law and say that those rights that existed in the previous Law are coming back, among other things, and the rights that you insist on in your amendment. I don't want to talk about everything that's been mentioned, under the form of an explanation of this amendment. I think everything that happens in Parliament is a picture of the country we live in and, unfortunately, all the events that we observe in Parliament are in some way a replica of what we are demonstrating here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5609	Mr. President, you've seriously hurt the Rules of Procedure. I can say what a debate should look like under which member, but I don't know by which member you gave Mr. Jovanovic a word over the line, to tell you which member was injured. It is known very well that amendments are being discussed by amendments, representatives of parliamentary groups and so on, but there is no right for the president of a parliamentary group to get word over the line in the debate on amendments. You - I'm talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you called the applicants of the amendment, you asked them if they wanted a word after the amendments, we answered the word, and after my discussion you gave the word to Mr Jovanovic and asked him if it was a replica, and he said it wasn't, and you still gave him the word. You've severely hurt the Rules of Procedure, as you've done so many times. I will have opportunities to discuss amendments to respond to what is important in what Mr Jovanovic said, but I ask you not to discriminate against the applicants of the amendments when it comes to the discussion of the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5610	You're right in that part, it's just not about discrimination, but it's about the moment I assessed it, when I returned Mr. Stamenkovic, giving the word to Mr. Jovanovic, convinced that it was a replica, and he confirmed to me that it was not about the replica, but about the presentation and when I had already returned the MP to the post, I thought we could continue in this way, because it is not essentially an obstacle to the work, but a mistake was made in the best interest. The words of course are proposed amendments. Mr. Stamenkovic picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5611	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People so far, Article 14. The law on employment and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons states that an unemployed person who has been insured for 30 years and over is paid for his employment, i.e. to meet the conditions for the exercise of age pension rights, in accordance with the rules on pension and disability insurance. The amendment of the law now provides that the right person for whose work the need ceases, and it has been secured for more than 30 years, enjoys 20, so about two years some supplement and then goes to the market to work. We asked that this amendment, Goran Cvetanovic and I, delete the article and that until further notice, the old article 14 better protect the interests of those persons. It is said that this government cannot provide more resources than the bill provides. That's what Mr. Jovanovic, who didn't rule, says, is the head of the ruling coalition's parliamentary group, but you didn't promise that when you fought to come to power. You promised investment, then you knew that 750,000 people didn't work, that it was so fictitiously employed, but you knew we had $100 billion in war damage claims. Now you rule, all your friends are around, happy to receive you. They're about to give money, use it to protect the rights of all those who are going to be out of a job. That previous rotten power was as it provided, and the truth, it was small funds, the truth with the delay, but it provided them. This fresh, full friend, he can't do it or he doesn't want to work. This is the last chance, Mr. Minister, when we cross Article 1, there will no longer be a chance for us to fix something, and this is the last moment to say whether you accept these amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party MPs, to delete Article 1 and that an old legal solution applies, under which workers from over 30 years of retirement and insurance will enjoy protection until they receive a new job. And this is the last moment for you to come forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5612	Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Vučurović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5613	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very instructive to delete article 1 of this law. I tried to explain to you a little while ago that nothing will be won by the fact that the right of the workers who remain unemployed is limited to 24 months. Ask around the employment offices, how many people these days, that age, and that average job experience, have already broken down the working relationship with their companies. By June 1st, when this law begins to apply, you will have such a terrible blow to funds that are due to pay the unemployment benefits, that it will be terrible. I'm not saying this government has the money, to wash out the old solution, I know it doesn't. You should have told people before the election that you wouldn't have it, not now. And if you're going to have, then keep this article from the old law. It's abnormal to expect someone to hire a man 25 to 30 years old, and there's nowhere to hire that man, and this is how we leave them on the street. Gentlemen, before you took power, you should have said-- these people will be on the street. Then you knew there were as many unemployed as there were, and then you knew that there would be even more unemployed and it's perfectly normal, there's no transition that didn't produce the number of unemployed but there was a need to secure funds, not to withdraw those famous 6 billion, to just withdraw our debts to Europe and the world. How much do Europe and the world owe us? How many of our couples have been blocked, but how much is the interest on our money? How many billion have they destroyed by bombing, and they owe us nothing? You go around the world, and as our people say, you ask the Church to survive. She would have asked Milev from Obrenovac more than all your ministers and members of the government have so far. You're looking for yours, ours in fact. You don't have to pray or beg. We're looking for what's ours. We're looking for our blocked assets abroad, we're looking for what the world owes us, we're looking for war damage, the criminals did to this country during the bombing, and we're not looking for anything else, and when we get it, there's not going to be any unemployed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5614	The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5615	Dear People's MPs, as the People's MP of this assembly, I have tabled an amendment and have submitted a proposal not to amend Article 14 paragraph 1 point 6. Employment law and the exercise of the right of unemployed persons. By changing and supplementing this member, all workers who are after 25 and more years of work, with paid pension and disability insurance, who have lost their job for bankruptcy, liquidation, technical surplus, factually due to the termination of business and other cases, according to the proposing's intentions and in the spirit of this law, remain on the labour market with no real opportunity to provide for themselves and unemployed members of their family until one of the conditions is met, now the only one, for retirement and 60-year-old men and 55-year-old women. The proposed solution so far, that an unemployed person who had been insured for 30 years and over, would receive a cash compensation for employment, i.e. to the achievement of pension rights, proposed to amend it. The promoter pointed out as an explanation that this category of persons was receiving cash compensation, that they were paid a contribution for pension and disability insurance, that they were working on black and were not stimulated to seek employment. It would have been better if the bill promoter had measured the reverse arguments. It is an age structure with accumulated expertise and experience between 45 and 60 years of age, with already impaired or initial health, i.e. health conditions due to current conditions and lifestyles, but also because of the functioning of various factors at work or in terms of work. The employer's motivation to receive such workers is weak. This category of workers in this age is mostly a category of non-employed family members, whether students, students or unemployed persons, and the situation is even more difficult when it is assumed that their unemployed children have children and the like. When it comes to the retirement of these persons according to the current system, it is only the retirement based on disability. When considering, on the one hand, that it is the criteria of a person with impaired health, but not at the border of disability, and on the other hand, criteria, criteria, standards and normative and health services and disability commissions, then it can be assumed, if not concluded, that a small number will be able to be retired. When the employment opportunities or retirement of the category of workers with reality have been faced, and in particular the fact that due to bankruptcy, property transformation, or for other reasons on the labour market, about 200 to 250 000 of the current surplus labour force, one quarter of which is of the age of internship and age of which it is, then with the current status of the Republic Labour Market Office, it can be assumed that there are now at least over 50,000 workers in the employment relationship, but future unemployed. At a time when they are unemployed, until the end of 24 months, how much they will receive cash compensation, from the day of termination of employment to the end of the 60 years of life of men and 55 years of women, i.e. to retirement, which basically means that they will not have any means of existence for three years. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister, did he consider the situation when he was working this proposal along with his associates, would he be in such a situation as he's considering, that three years after so much work experience, so many years of work, he'll be in a position to find himself on the street? I believe that all the solutions that have been given here in the financial policy package with regard to the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law were not some solution to criticise those solutions that are existing, but in the system of changes and additions, which we have had here in the past days, it was only modified to take away from citizens, to fill the budget and to place another burden, one malj on every citizen, on every worker. I hope everything comes back very soon as a boomerang. I believe that this proposal is the most inhumane in relation to all the proposals so far, and that is why I advocate that if you do not adopt this amendment by the promoters, then the Government should withdraw its proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5616	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is Mr. Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5617	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, esteemed ministers, I have proposed by my amendment to maintain the right to pay compensation for persons who are jobless and have over 30 years of employment. This proposal was supported by a large number of MPs, as we heard, during a debate in principle during today and last Thursday, which we had under the proposal of this law. Namely, for the time being, the current Article 14. The law stipulates that an unemployed person, with over 30 years of employment, will be paid cash compensation until his employment, i.e. to meet the conditions for the right to retirement. The cash compensation was paid through the labour market and now the government is proposing to provide these individuals with cash compensation for only 24 months. As a reason for this restrictive measure towards these persons, the government states: First, to these persons, I quote: they were not, or that the unemployed persons were not stimulated to seek employment: "they were not stimulated to seek employment" and second, those persons were "most often working on black". It's hard to take the impression that this kind of explanation has the sounds of cynicism, when it's known how many young and professional persons are now looking for a job, and on the other hand, it's about older workers, who really don't want to get into a working relationship. Knowing that there will soon be a huge wave of redundancy, does this category of older workers leave the street? After 24 months, they have no material security, no pensions, and no other. The amendments to the Labour Relations Act, which we adopted a few days ago, reduced this category of workers the amount of severance paid by employers. Namely, instead of 12 months of earnings, now only 5, indeed 5 gross monthly earnings. However, no matter what gross earnings are involved, we have seen that this is much less than the former amounts that the worker had the right to make if he lost his job. The government said it was defined to help the socially endangered. Did she point out that the social burden wants to exclude the company and provide funds for social security and the care of the unemployed and those who remain unemployed. These definitions are in place and acceptable for everyone, but they are only acceptable if they are actually carried out that way. However, in the legal solutions that the government is proposing, including in this law, which we are now considering, we see that it has deviated from the promises made. It is obvious that workers who lose their jobs are now in a much more difficult position. Earlier, the government of the Socialist Party of Serbia paid much more attention to this category of workers. Because of the above, I think the amendment has a lot of human, economic and social justification to be accepted, to maintain the right so far to workers who remain unemployed and have over 30 years of employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5618	There are no more promoters, he has the word Minister Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5619	Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, it's very nice to stand up for workers' rights, especially to advocate and not have any obligations. It's the opposition when the former government was working all the time, taking care of the workers, and then putting them in the position they're in right now. This government does not intend to lie to anyone, but intends to tell the truth, and this government intends to do what it promises and implement. It's nice to promise some extra pension, make sure someone gets retired when they're 30, and then keep going. That's nice, but it's not practical, because there's no money for that kind of thing. You know very well why there is no money, because you, after all, are guilty of not having the money. But the facts are very clear when it comes to this amendment of yours. You have so far promised that workers will receive remuneration from the bureau, or the labour markets, but that is not the case in practice. These are data from the labour market: the average number of cash compensation users in 2000 was 47,393 workers. On the basis of the termination of the employment relationship, as a technological surplus, the cash compensation was used by 24,417 persons and on the basis of bankruptcy 13.984. Now, you promised them that they'd get that compensation neatly, and what's going on now. Unsettled obligations to the Labour Market Office with 31. The 12 were 921,500 dinars. So, you promised something that you couldn't keep, and in the end it comes down to the following -- that these workers, who are now at the Bureau, didn't get what you promised them. And that this government is doing what it promises to do has shown results from that very labour market. The number of job openings has increased compared to last year by 21.2% or in numbers there are currently 122.931 job openings. During the first three months, 96,709 new workers were employed, which means an increase compared to last year by 20.6%. 66,163 employees have been employed from the Bureau. Which means 20.7% increase. So, my dear MPs to the opposition, you can see that this government is working very successfully and that the number of new employees has increased, and this government is going to make every promise and reconciliation possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5620	Here you go, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5621	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, we are considering amending the draft employment law that should apply from May 2001. We're not considering any changes to the law that should apply in 2000. However, the distinguished Mr. Minister, in his own style, avoids saying the point. I've got Mr. Minister's stenograms here, two of his presentations. Both shows were protected time, so at a time when, after his exposure, no one can answer to deny what he says. In both of his presentations, Mr. Minister claimed that no rights to workers are diminished. He did not again want to say a direct answer to the direct question, Mr. Minister, directly ask you in front of everyone - whether workers, amendments to the draft employment law, are diminishing their rights or not. And I claim here that the pay phone is shrinking and that it is you who are the president of the Union of Independent and Free Unions. That the workers know who represents their interests. But, Mr. Minister, you're protected in special statements, so on television, when you're visiting the Belgrade programme or here you're making statements, you're speaking quite pervasively about the opposition, but you're not going to tell the truth, that you're also telling the previous Labour Law, and now the employment law has drastically reduced the rights of workers from working relationships, and these rights are being reduced, which the amendment applicants have already said, because you have legally denied them the right to have someone through the court to exercise their right. If you want to talk about the success of a government that represents so many workers, I'll think they'll be nailing members of the government at the door of the Socialist Party of Serbia soon and enrolling in our party. The result of your government's work is that in December 2000 and January 2001, 50,850 workers were out of work. That's the result of your government's work. If you want the results of your government's work and your Minister for Labour and Employment, then I must say that the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, fired over 400 highly trained experts at the National Bank of Yugoslavia on Friday. You may be interested as Minister of Labour and Employment, Mr. Minister, based on which he fired them. He fired them by coming up with a test. A test to test people who already have college diplomas for knowledge. Do you know what knowledge he was checking? In the National Bank of Yugoslavia, where dinar and foreign exchange transactions are carried out, the key question was on the test -- what is a cloned sheep. Now, based on that test, Mr Dinkic, while you are the minister and president of the Union of Independent and Free Unions, has fired more than 400 people. I call upon you to answer directly - whether you are reducing the rights of workers or not. I remind you that you have already stated that you are not diminishing, and I claim that you are reducing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5622	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5623	Now that we have heard both government representatives and representatives of the ruling majority, who have felt the need to speak in the National Assembly for this amendment, it is becoming clear that our warnings have been warned by concerned people because it is obvious that there will be many unemployed, whose representatives say they cannot provide the same rights as they have been guaranteed so far. You know, if it wasn't for a large number of unemployed people, you would have written all kinds of rights in law for those who lose their jobs. But since you know there will be a lot of you reducing their rights. Look now, the minister is in the minister's chair for 100 days, and he's already wised up. He says it's easy to talk about workers' rights when you don't have any responsibility. You've done this for ten years, Minister. Here, now for three months, you're worried about whether there's going to be pay, pensions, non-employment, and it's all over your head right now. It is not easy to exercise power, but you cannot exercise authority and act as an opposition. No more, what happened was, you told it in the campaign, you told us that in the last 100 days, we ruined everything, we destroyed everything, there are no more states, you're now responsible for what you're doing in the government. You're not responsible at all for the situation you've found. Just for what you do. And what are you doing? You warn the National Assembly that we owe a lot of money to the West. And we here are constantly warning you that this West owes us huge money. He owes us human lives. I'd ask you, Mr. President, if I didn't turn out to be an uncultured man, that I don't turn out to have anything against this woman's lobby, remind this lady, here, and now I declare that the lady, I'm not challenging her, I'm not looking in her direction, I'm not throwing it at me anymore while I'm at the pay phone. I have a lot of people's expressions, applied to people like that, someone might interpret them, because you don't know those expressions, so maybe you'll even kick me out of the session. It's much easier for you to tame a bloodlock in 176 than for me to fight it here, from this pay phone. Turns out I don't have a lot of work to do. I really have a lot more to do than talk to someone who's throwing it at me while I'm at the pay phone. There's no point, there's no reason. Here, whenever a woman's lobby comes out, I won't say a word, so I don't disturb them in their discussions. So these debts, this war, the aggression, the destruction, the minimum $50 billion damage done to Serbia, you don't mention. You mention how we owe them something, based on credits that took businesses years ago, or on membership in various international organisations. You have to think about -- whether you're going to post those accounts to the West, or not, whether the West is going to keep on the leash of this power continuously, because Carla Del Ponte is going to promise the day of De, when she comes for Milosevic, when she comes for Mladic, when she comes for Sljivancan, when she comes for many Serbs (a voice from the hall: and for Nikolic), and for Nikolic, which, which, so much more to live, I would be happy to be taken there, better than with you here to persecute me in the Assembly. I'm telling you the truth. Because that's where only decent Serbs go. No more garbage has gone to The Hague, only honest Serbs. What's the basics here? The minister said, when he first spoke of this law, he said -- no one will fire people who are 25-30 years old -- they are, he says, experienced, and they can give the most advice there. You know, at one firm, you need one or two such experienced ones to give advice and you need thousands of those who are going to push your back. You can't expect a man who's 32-33 years old to go through his back. The minister says they haven't been paid their rights in 2000. But the ministers, under that law, all waited calmly for the years to come for their retirement. They don't wait under this law. Under this law they only have the right... You ministers can laugh all you want, it's your right, you were a man without obligation until 100 days ago. Now I'm going to ask you, when you go back to the flag -- what does it look like when you're responsible for some segment in society? But these people have been waiting for retirement, and now they're waiting for nothing, they've been waiting for nothing since June 1st. They get fired as someone whose work has stopped the need, 24 months he's paid compensation, and then what's waiting for him, then what's waiting for him in a left-wing society, human, social, run by the left-wing government? He's got a raw capitalist system waiting for him, in which he'll have to hang himself, jump off the bridge, or otherwise end his own suffering.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5624	He has the word MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5625	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, would be similar to the opposition, if we had no courage to say that the economy, which was meant to ensure respect for the rights that existed in the time in which today's opposition was power, was incapable of something like this, as it is today unable to reconcile, was also incompetent in the time in which today's opposition was in power. And therefore a 980 million dinar debt to the labour market, which the government could not cover and could not thus provide the law guaranteeing workers' rights. But where the responsibility of today's opposition, and the previous authorities -- in the fact that she didn't respect the rights that, based on the arguments I'm about to make here today, she had to respect. Budgetary control in the 10 ministries of the Republic government, for the period in 2000, found that the following financial abuses were committed -- that a billion and 280 million dinars were spent without purpose. Only by these means could you undermine the rights of the worker, which you guaranteed, which you did not support, which you left us as a debt. The budget spent 373 million dinars illegally. Two million and 635 thousand German marks have not been paid into Serbia's budget at all, and has been sought on various grounds. So when we talk about arguments and facts, then you'll see that we don't want to do what you did, as our predecessors. We cannot provide resources to workers in accordance with the rights that have only been declared by this law, which have never been applied. We cannot say that for 24 months we will be able to meet the needs of workers and expect that in the time ahead we will be able to build our society in a different way than at this moment, and that this society will be able to meet these needs, as it has managed to settle the needs that have been covered in respect of compensation for other people's care and assistance, pensions for farmers, home accommodation fees, foster care fees, benefits for those who have been disabled during their working relationship, pensions and so on. There's no reason to challenge this society's chance of being different, in the time ahead, but when we criticise, we have to talk about facts. The facts do not contribute to such amendments and criticisms as we are told. We don't want to be the government she used to be, but at the same time we're willing to take responsibility for every move we're making right now. When someone proves that this government purposelessly spent the funds, which could purposely focus on the exercise of workers' rights, we will be ready to do what Mr. Seselj asked us to do, which is to withdraw from the position in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5626	There's a word Mr. Branislav Ivkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5627	Mr. President, the predecessor for this speaker absolutely didn't talk about the agenda point, which is on the agenda right now. The employment law is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5628	It was a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5629	And in the replica, it should stick to the agenda. This is where we found out he was running away from the topic, because the answer to the question can't be given. The answer to the question is, they're reducing the rights of workers. Since that must not be said, MP Ceda Jovanovic has escaped from the topic and has shown that the Inquisitor-Gyrian headquarters is the right one (they do not understand the words). Some MPs know what budgetary control is, which has been sent to find what has to be found, found, and the ministers that are involved, unless they have the honor to write about them in the papers, they have no idea what happened, and we will talk about it when the budget is final, whether it is non-purpose or not, and who has the right to assess what is intended and what is non-purpose, but to know that it was not a subject and that it was not a subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5630	Mr. Jovanovic, in my assessment, spoke completely in line with the subject, which is why he applied for the replica. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 115, abstentions seven were not voted by two, a total of 175 members were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5631	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 and that, in Article 1 paragraph 6, it is amended to read: 24 months, if 25 and less than 33 years have been secured. The reasons for the amendment lie in the fact that we have had the law so far, that we have your bill on amendments and amendments to the law and I hope that we have an explanation of what you are proposing. The reminders for the sake of this, I'm going to point out what's been contained in the law so far, and it's about this category of employees. So far, there have been two items, two categories, which you have united into one and it has been read like this, at point 6, it was 24 months if it was secured for 25 years and less than 30 years and it was added another position relating to employees over 30 years of age, which says - an unemployed person who has been insured for 30 and more years, the cash compensation is paid to his employment, or to the fulfilment of the conditions for the exercise of age pension rights in accordance with pension-inhabitation regulations. What's happened so far, you're changing now that, instead of those two categories, you're joining one, on the other, you have a minimal age limit, in fact, the limit for the exercise of rights per year of training has been 25 years and all the way to full retirement. What you're saying in your explanation, and what I personally think is unconscious, is this: - you say, this solution, the unemployed person was not stimulated by the workload. This applies to persons who have been said for 31, 32, 33 years or maybe even 34 years of internship, and due to the conditions of business in which they are located, the situation has arisen to lose their employment relationship. Now those people who are 33, 34 years old aren't in any way stimulated to look for another job. Even if they did, it's a big question that the working organization, which the economic operator has received from a person who's been missing for a year or two days until retirement, is to receive it purely for social reasons. The fact is, and that is doubtless evidence and that no one is in favour of the state of Serbia, that some 800,000 are unemployed. The fact is that there are about a million employees who needed to work for, in fact, stopped, and they're on the list that get some guaranteed income, and they're at home. The fact is that these are people who can hardly be employed anywhere more, and the fact is that they are persons for whom there is no longer any need for requalification, because of their age and their almost completed working life, and the fact that they may also have to deal with some gray economy, in order to create their own family and their basic living conditions, until the end of their working life, until the end of their retirement conditions. Why do I propose such an amendment? I suggest for a purely human and social reason. On the other hand, you're moving towards European integration. Let's say hello. On the other hand, what you're saying is that a complete restructuring of economic policy is needed in the country. On the side of what you're saying is that you're going to create an environment for the country's economic recovery. On the side of what you're saying, there's some kind of minimum social justice. There's no such thing in this article. That's why I suggested that two categories be adopted there too, that one category be -- that it be granted 24 months in the category of 25 to 33 years of employment. From 33 years of age, full pension will be able to be made according to the law so far, because, by obtaining 24 personal income, those persons will come to that, to gain even the right to full pension. I think it's more humane anyway than what you're suggesting. It's more humane for a number of reasons, and the first is, in any case, it's hard for these people to find work anywhere and where humanity is and where justice is, where there's a social aspect that this government should think about, and obviously didn't mean it. That way these people will have certain security, waiting for that retirement.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5632	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 42, against 99, abstentions 7, there was no 18 vote, a total of 166 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijailovic. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not reached a decision on this amendment, as the same number of MPs voted in favour and against, until the Government and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5633	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on employment and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons. The amendment is - that people, i.e. workers, who have 30 years of employment or more, cannot remain without material compensation, until the first conditions for retirement or re-employment are obtained. I was motivated to submit this amendment, because I believe that people who are 30 years of employment, on average, now have about 55 years of life. They run out of material income, they'd be gone in two years, and then they'd be about 57 years old. These are people who are already with impaired health, and these are also those who have children in their family who are only in school and those children are not yet employed, which would mean that parents would lose any material income, and at the same time they would remain children. They have no material income, nor could parents help children, and children could not help parents. On these occasions normally, we'd have problems and family. When we look at who those people were ten years ago, ten years ago, they were about 45 years old. Then they had 20 years of work. They did their best, and the previous system took everything from them. Gentlemen, he took away the youth and material gains they had, even though they had some kind of savings and that savings had been spent a long time ago, they don't have any savings. Now comes the privatisation law. Normally, they won't be able to participate in that privatisation and have some sort of compensation, and beyond that, they've given a lot of money. Normally, it's not their fault that the previous system destroyed it all. Furthermore, these are people who are not covered by the law or the requalification obligation, which is normal, have 30 and more years of work experience, it is normal not to be covered by requalifications. As a DSS MP, I think this proposal of mine is clever and just, which in my area would add that it is human and human. That is why I believe that MPs of the Assembly should adopt this amendment, for these reasons that I have already stated. Once again, the Committee on Labour and Combat Affairs has simply been unspecified, so it was voted neutrally 4:4, and this means that this amendment should nevertheless be decided by the Assembly, adopted, and I believe that the majority in this House will vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5634	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) I am putting the amendments of MP Mijailovic to vote. For 75, against 76, the three abstentions, did not vote 6, a total of 160 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I bet it's because there's untucked cards. National MP Borislav Pelevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not reached a decision on this amendment, as the same number of MPs voted in favour and against the amendments, until the Government and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment. (Loud voice: no quorum. How there's no quorum when 160 votes. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go, Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5635	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice president, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, my amendment is almost as identical as my predecessor's amendment. Unfortunately, one vote has not passed, and I hope that we will now be a little bit more aware and that we will vote on this amendment. The thing is, it's a really big question, who's going to hire someone who's out of a job if he's 55 years old. If the average of one lifetime in Serbia is 75 years, it will remain 20 or 25 years of life without any income. This is all about the principle of solidarity and the principle of humanity. If this law is passed, this means that the worker will indeed lose any income, although he is hardly ever guilty of losing his job. About 50,000 workers have received this help so far. By the end of the year, who knows how many more there will be. One part of the employers will have to continue to lay off workers because of the excessive base for paying their contributions. So this number will definitely be increased. There's a privatisation coming. Authorities are aware and confirm themselves that privatisation and a large contribution base will force employers to fire workers and that the number of fired workers will increase significantly by the end of this year. Coming out of this situation, the government sees it in two ways. First, that no one will be left without social protection, because funds will come from abroad, and that the donation system will all be taken care of because they are in a state of social need. The big question is how many donations will come and will they come and what purpose will donations go to in the first place? Therefore, this argument by the Serbian government is not convincing. The second argument is, requalification for those who lose their jobs. Please, it's hard to imagine that people from 50 to 55 are sitting in benches again, at their age. It's really not humane and it's really not right, and it's quite certain that this argument of the government is not standing. The government, in its explanation, argues that this member will prevent the unemployed from working on black, while receiving salaries, while paying pension and disability insurance. These workers certainly do not work black because of their desire to be criminals or smugglers, but because of the need to feed their family. Furthermore, the government claims that the previous Law, which contained this member, simply did not stimulate workers to find employment. It's illusory to talk about, because I've already explained, and so has my predecessor, that it's very difficult to find employment with 55 years of life. So I ask you and I urge you, for reasons of humanity and solidarity, to vote for this amendment to be adopted, where it says that an unemployed person who has been insured for 30 and more years is paid for his employment or obtaining terms for retirement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5636	Mr. Jovanovic, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5637	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not this question, the question of humanity. Otherwise, those who do not support this amendment would be people who are inhuman. I don't consider myself that way. You simply have to understand that there are no ones who can make that right concrete. Therefore, who will realise these funds that will fulfil this right to a worker who has lost his job, who could, in accordance with the existing Law, enjoy the right to receive a pension or a new job. The most criticism in the economy was the moment the solidarity daily was introduced. Those who worked felt that they were not obliged to increase their own burden in such a difficult time by the burden of someone who did not work. That's where we made the only possible compromise. We said - 24 months are capable of meeting such a commitment and we expect that in the next two years we too will change the atmosphere in society and the economic environment to that extent that we will be able to restore this legal provision. But at this point, we can't lie to Serbia, we can't cheat on our society and say, you'll enjoy rights, and in a month, two or three, we'll run from the workers from the counter, as it seems today. It's nothing else. It's not a question of humanity. Then it's a cheap political trick. Tell me who these workers are who will be able to raise funds for themselves in this weather, both for their family and for those who do not work. They're not here. That's our reality. The state has found opportunities and has the capacity to withstand such a burden for 24 months. We hope that in the next 24 months we will launch an economy to that extent, that we will also have increased capacity in such a way as to cover the full rights of workers. Not as it seems so far, not with a debt of nearly a billion dinars, but to the last dinar of a paid commitment to every citizen in this society. But today it's not possible. Then let's tell the citizens the truth. Let's not hide behind the fact that someone has 14 or one less vote at the moment of decision. Tell me, who are those who will pay such a commitment? Go to the workers who protest the solidarity logs, who abolished it on the first day they could do that. The laws must be adopted responsibly and in line with the situation in society. Our situation is, unfortunately, such that we cannot accept such a burden, because we have no one to burden. We don't have any more.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5638	The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5639	The basis of each country is that those who work and earn, finance many who do not work and do not earn. If there were such a state that those who work in it only financed their work, the state would fail. At the very least, it's immoral, if this is really the government's position, that the government is asking for her to be admitted that she won't be able to serve some of the obligations she's obliged to serve, and at the same time, nowhere around here says she's going to give up some of her demands because it's clear that those who do can finance everything. You know, you convince us that those who work will not be able to finance those who don't, but they will finance the state and its needs. Then that's something to worry about. Then it's very optimistic to promise this country at all that this government will pay something for 24 months. Then the question arises, how many more days will this government be in power, not months, not years. You're so clear, you're open to this speaker saying that you're going to charge everything, and there's nothing to charge for what you have to give to others, that even for those who have been most faithful so far, it's like a slap on the head. This isn't a story you came to power with. This is a whole new story. The persuasion of this story and its foothold should be checked among voters. But here is a game played by the Serbian Radical Party, and we are wise enough and experienced enough in the Assembly to evaluate each game. You've had two amendments to the Serbian Radical Party here. Most of them voted against them. The amendment of a party in power, identical to our amendments, appeared. Suddenly there is a majority to be adopted that amendment. Now I ask you, if your wish was to be better, doesn't it matter who submitted the amendment? It seems to you that it was your desire for the government to remain resilient in its lack of pay, and then MPs to bring the amendment and interestingly, MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia knew that part of the opposition would vote for this amendment. What's this about? What kind of games are these? It's about fate, maybe hundreds of thousands of people. Why are you watching who submitted the amendment, so you know how to vote for it? Why, so it happened, we first handed over the amendments, why the majority did not vote for the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party, and for the amendment submitted by the party's representative in power, you dare vote, instead of the government saying - we accept this amendment, the job is done. She allows the parliamentary majority to accept some amendment here. These are not correct games, this law is very dangerous, many people will leave hungry, and on the street. You're playing how the amendments will be adopted. What is the difference, please explain to me, what is the difference between the amendments submitted by the opposition MPs and the ruling party MPs. To write in the paper that on the proposal of both the party and the party, the conditions for those who remain jobless have been improved. You still have time to deal with it, and the state is in such a difficult situation. He has the means to make this happen. Don't blind the cabinets, don't drive the armored cars, don't make porn movies in the government, there'll be money, there'll be money for the workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5640	Mr. Pelevic, then Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5641	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no illusions that my amendment will be accepted, since Mr Lunet's previous amendment, which is in the Democratic Party of Serbia, has unfortunately failed. I think my predecessor is absolutely right and it doesn't matter who submitted the amendment. I don't think any of these MPs who submitted this amendment had a bad intention, and at least, I did it for a cheap political trick, as the head of the DOS parliamentary group just said. I think that sentence of his speaks more of him than of me. Let Serbia's citizens, after all, judge it. It is not correct that our desire to fix this law, improve, encounter such resistance and such words by Mr. Ceda Jovanovic, who, unfortunately, is not there now, is gone, but that is his problem. I think we all wanted this law to improve. Once again, I will read my amendment: "to an unemployed person who has been insured for 30 years, cash compensation is paid to his employment or to get conditions for retirement." If this is a cheap political trick, then Mr. Chad won't be able to sleep peacefully, but I'll be able to sleep peacefully, like all those MPs who voted for the previous amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5642	Mr. Ivkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5643	We have been in a position here several times in this assembly to understand and realize that some MPs have the right to special information, depending on how close information sources are or some special inquisition-inquisition headquarters, which deals with evidence, corruption, malversion and so on, all with targeted selective selection of personnel that should be prevented from participating in future elections, which are clearly approaching, faster than others want. In any case, the truth works, it would be okay for the Minister for Labour and Employment to come out for this speaker and inform MPs who should decide, but also the public that the Republic Labour Market Fund is a previous solution that we all defend here, and MPs of the Serbian Radical Party with two amendments, MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia with two identical amendments, and MP of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and now MP of the Party of Serbian Unity, that on the basis of that decision in Belgrade, a January month has been paid, that 2,415 beneficiaries of that right, amounting to 10.5 million dinars today in Leskovac, receive that money. So it's not that late. So it could still be done and those rights should be maintained. I have repeatedly asked the minister to come out and admit, in the opening statement, that he did not tell the truth and admit that the rights are being reduced, the rights are being reduced, and the amendments that are being proposed are trying to retain the rights and those rights that are being exercised. So the Republican Labour Market Fund ended in Belgrade in January. Today in Leskovac, it ends 10.5 million dinars for 2,415 users. So it's possible to achieve that right, even at a time when, under DOS, the economy is completely stopping. As for the vote, we are in principle for this solution and the representatives of the Socialist Party of Serbia had two amendments that did not have majority support, but we supported the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia and now we will support the MPs of the Party of Serbian Unity, because we believe that this is most important for workers in the economy, because obviously, when I think about the privatisation law, it will only be important then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5644	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 82, against 79, one was abstentioned, was not voted 10, and a total of 172 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5645	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, my amendment concerns Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment and Exercise of the Rights of Unemployed Persons and on Article 14 of the current Law. All that MPs have said, above all, by opposition parties, I also believe that persons who are out of work after 30 years and over of working hours should have a cash refund until retirement or to find some adequate employment. The promoter explained why no solution so far, regulated by this law, has been accepted, that these faces have not been stimulated to seek a job. Of course, after this latest statement by DOS representatives, it's not about that, it's about the lack of funds above all. We come here in one collapsion, because DOS is both in the election campaign and to this day, and today he said that all solutions and all problems will be solved effectively and quickly. I believe that this amendment is involved and that it should be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5646	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? If not, I would like to put the amendment tabled by MP Toma Busetic. For 47, against 102, two abstentions, not 10, 161 MPs are present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment submitted to Article 1 by MP Slobodan Janjic does not contain a proposal to amend and supplement that member of the bill, so that within the meaning of Article 138. The Rules of Procedure cannot be considered an amendment. Accordingly, the National Assembly will not be declared on the proposal of MP Slobodan Janjic. National MP Bozidar Vucurovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment come forward for a word? He has the word National MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5647	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked my amendment to remain the previous legislative solution, in which the amount of net earnings was determined by 70%, in accordance with the law, increased by 2% for each year by an insurance internship, with it being less than 50% or higher than the average. The new legal solution reduces these percentages to 60% of the average profit and pays them 40% to 80%. The reason is that it has moved on to the gross profit system, and that is also the reason for the refusal of this amendment, that it is nominally larger. Unfortunately, the nominal users of these funds don't live. They live on reality. That's actually less, even though it's nominally more. Again, I expect that the government's representative will come out and defend the government's position by not having the funds and that 980 million dinars are owed to the Employment Fund. If it is already said to be owed, then it should be said to be a two-month debt to the Fund. Nine hundred and eighty million dinars is a two-month amount, which the Fund pays on various grounds. If someone made that debt to the Fund, then they made the transitional government that you were in. Don't laugh. You'd better read something, not go to class in the morning and take a colloquium out of training. So the transitional government did it, that debt. Even if it's three months old, it's still a transitional government. Those nine months were paid, even by January of the month. It means that the percentage decreases, something slightly nominally increases the amount, but not as nominal as the nominal and real budget is increased. The budget is nominally and realistically increased four times. What you're saying is that 20 and a slightly more billion outside the budget went into traffic, is, but it got into the market for restoring what was destroyed. You're the only government that's been able to devalue the brand. One brand used to buy 10 centuries of bread, three liters of oil, four kilos of sugar, 6 liters of milk for one brand, and now you can buy two loafs of bread, half a liter of oil, half a kilo of sugar for that one brand. That's the difference between real and nominal. The only government that made it. I share your enthusiasm, gentlemen, for the MPs to see me again at this pay phone, but show that enthusiasm when I leave the pay phone. Don't throw it away, you're confusing me. So that's the difference between real and nominal. People don't live off the nominal, they live on the real, and that's why I suggest that it remain a solution to the previous law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5648	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? The word has been given by MP Tomislav Nikolic, as a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5649	I believe that the National Assembly should accept the amendment of the People's MP Bozidar Vučurovic, because it would prevent further erosion of rights provided for by this bill and join all those who call on responsible representatives of the government, the minister, the Prime Minister, from saying from this payphone, to look at the camera and say - it is not the right opposition, we do not reduce the rights of the unemployed or those who temporarily remain unemployed, or say - it is the right opposition, we are reducing rights, but we do not have the money to achieve those rights that they did during the previous government. On two basiss in both positions of Article 2 or former member of the 20th amending, the rights of those who will be more and more, if DOS actually manages to remain in power for some time. Now, the monetary fee is 60% of the average unemployment income, and it was 70% of the net earnings, and the minister in the explanation convinces us that it's the same nominal amount, that we trust him. It was 70%, but now it's taking a three-month average, and then it was the basis of the previous month, the month ahead. In attitude 2, now it goes to 40% as the lowest base, and it was 50% and it goes to 80% as the highest, and it was 100%. All these are reductions in rights, and it's all a sign that we're right when we say there's going to be a lot of these people, and that's why the government predicts that they won't have enough resources to serve their rights under a law that was already in force. That's what is causing us to worry, that's what makes us warn Serbian citizens, that this law is really, is its jinx number 13, I have already warned, that this law will be a source for many disagreements between the government and the government and the unemployed. Whether it's permanent or temporary unemployed, I still don't know. But at a time when we started using that term -- temporarily unemployed persons, people who temporarily lost their jobs because of the fact of aggression, sanctions, they could all expect to get back to work. Now, in your time, there will be no longer temporary unemployed persons, there will be permanent unemployed persons. People are going to run out of work, because it's going to be technology to demand first, and then, how you started to fire everyone who's ever been in any of the parties that were in power before you, it's obvious that a party key, that similarity, that a new kind of fascism will decide again and on who's going to work in factories where there's going to be very little work. So it is our job to try and stop you, to pass this law, of course, by all parliamentary means, because we are convinced that this law brings evil and trouble and great conflicts between those who care for their future, and you, if you remain deaf, what can I do to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5650	Is anyone else applying for an amendment discussion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5651	Mr. Nikolic apparently, now that he's a professional politician, he's lost all ties to work and probably forgot, while working there at that cemetery in Kragujevac, what does that have to do with it? And now he comes out here and says, "Let them come out and say they're wrong." Well, you're wrong, Mr. Nikolic. You're wrong. You stand for the lesser rights of workers. Because obviously neither you nor your colleague know how to calculate something, and I'm here to explain it to you. Currently, the worker receives a maximum on the labour market 4.262.00 dinars. According to our proposal, they will receive 6,502,00 dinars. If it's worse for the workers, then I don't know what's better.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5652	There was nothing offensive for you (it is addressing Ambassador Nikolic, who, meanwhile, is looking for a replica). You did mention it but... Right to the replica of the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5653	You know, when the chairman won't give me the right to the Rules of Procedure, I'll do it myself, and you take...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5654	You can't do it yourself. You're entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5655	Thank you. I would've won anyway. So, even though I included all my intellectual capabilities, I couldn't figure out what "the poet wanted to say in his previous performance" was. If you were to say that I worked as a undertaker, is that an unworthy profession? From that time on, and now I know the dimensions. You'd fit into a slightly smaller grave than a guy's. Since then, Mr. Minister, unfortunately, there are a lot of honest, honest, honest people missing from the face of the earth and the rest of the vagabunds are moving. In these vagabonds I count all those who were both union leaders and fought for power. In these vagabonds I count all those who were immediately after the election, while fighting for workers' rights, moved into ministerial chairs. I'm picking up all those vagabonds and all those who have a member of the government, perhaps the president, brother. In these vaginas I count all those who deceive citizens by bringing...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5656	Mr. Nikolic, the right to the replica doesn't give you the right to insult, so I give you a warning of the insult that you...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5657	I know, but you need to assess whether he feels offended or not. He first needs to ask around what it means to him, whether it's offensive or not, if it wasn't something from a working relationship, if it wasn't something from a union fight, but just to tell you one more thing, Mr. Minister -- when I first got a job in my life, and that was 1971, and I went to Priboy... Oh, are you the minister? [[Comments from the hall are not heard, distasteful]] Because you have to pour some salt into every pot? Is that why a man sent you to this congregation?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5658	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5659	What do you have to do? I know you're thrilled with the appearance of God and my appearance for this pay phone. Hide that enthusiasm until the break, and then we'll take a break there to clear everything up. There were political rivals in this assembly, ladies, who called me to clear it up alone, so I went, so we cleared it up. That's not what I'm afraid of yet, and I'm going into years when maybe I could be scared. But here, let me put you out of your misery. Don't let anyone here, behind this pay phone, especially those who don't know what work is, who don't even know what a factory gate is, what a construction site is, what a tunnel, what a bridge, what a soliter is, don't anyone here convince me what a working relationship is and what a working relationship is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5660	Mr. Nikolic, it's time for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5661	Especially those who don't have a day's work to be proud of. And I'm 29 years old, 27 years old, and I'm still thinking about two.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5662	Is there anyone else answering for the word after the amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 45, against 99, there were no abstentions, no 13 votes, a total of 157 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm setting a break until 3:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5663	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament allow us to determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to consider the law in detail. The People's MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5664	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Law on the Rights of Unemployed Persons, in that I asked that the amount of cash compensation be fixed at 70%, not as the promoter said here - 60%. For what? I think I've suggested a very small percentage of the increase, because the earlier average was calculated on the basis of the last salary paid before there was a case of unemployment, and now it's been taken into account for the last three months, before the case comes to an end when the worker's working relationship ends on this basis. So his average salary, based on which his compensation is later determined, is going to be even less, so half as much as it used to be. A moment ago, the minister gave us two figures here and said, in addition to everything else, he promised they wouldn't lie anymore, and they lied, a lot and in the election campaign, and now they're lying, and they said it was 4.260 dinars before, and now it's 6,502 dinars. How did you get this number of 4.260 dinars, Mr. Minister, I hope you'll come out and explain it to me. Because the law is absolutely clear and says that the cash compensation is determined as we said in item 1, at a rate of 60% of the average earnings made in the last three months, but cannot be greater than 80% of the average net earnings per employee, achieved in the economy of the Republic, according to the latest published data, or below 40%. If the average profit is 4.260, let's make it up to 80 percent, then it's about 3,600 dinars, and that's what the most worker can get in a case like this. But there's one more thing that's bothering me. In fact, I don't know if you've now lied to us, or if those who on behalf of the Government have given an explanation for this amendment, say, among other things, the proposed solution provides the same nominal amount of cash compensation, compared to the legal solution so far. Approximately the same, so there's between 100 and 200 dinars, up and down, and you're here saying it's 2,300 dinars more. I see professional services are helping you and explaining what this is about, so when it explains, please step outside for a pay phone to explain to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5665	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? He's not answering. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 46, against 118, there were no abstentions, no five votes, a total of 169 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MPs Veroljub Arsic and Srboljub Zivanovic in the same text. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept these amendments. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5666	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, we hear Mr. Secretary making statements about this pay phone and staying alive, it seems that the percentage bill is still not working out. It seems that these percentage accounts were also when he was talking about the fill-up of job openings, and he probably didn't have in mind that this government was the most responsible for those job-free jobs, especially DOS, especially the crisis headquarters, who entered businesses, changed management, so the workers were better-than-better, those who could, fled to retirement, and those who didn't, stayed at the mercy and mercy of this government. The proof of this is "Gallenika" and Mr. Batic's incursion, on behalf of some crisis headquarters, and the result is workers, who could not escape into retirement, while at the same time on the streets, demanding to exercise their rights. In this amendment that I have submitted to Article 2. The bill, I had in mind that the basis cannot be lower than 30%, and the maximum fee cannot be greater than the average personal income in the Republic of Serbia, for the reason that, if I am right, Mr. Minister is not in a situation such as the previous authorities, that he is unable to fulfil his obligations under the law that he represents, and if he is right, I do not honestly doubt, why would this worker, who has lost his job, not receive a two-year average salary in the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5667	He has the word Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5668	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and the Honorable Presidency, I have tabled an amendment to the amendment to the Amendments and Supplements Act of Employment and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons under Article 2(2). The explanation - since the increase in the handling of employers based on the payment of contributions, regardless of whether the worker is paid the profits, is expected to be significantly higher inflows in the budget. It is unfounded to reduce the lowest percentage of the basic fee, or limit the percentage of the amount. The proposed amendments to Article 2 come from the existing pluralism in the organisation of the union's employers - the branching of employees and unemployed, and also provides adequate representation in the board of directors and supervisors. The maximum and minimum amount of cash compensation in the nominal amount should remain the same and should not be changed on a percentage basis, given that the cash benefits are determined in relation to gross earnings. Under current law in the solution, it was envisaged that representatives of employers from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce were appointed to the board of directors, representatives of the Alliance of Independent Unions and representatives of the unemployed Union of Serbia. This did not take into account a large number of members of other organisations, employers and unemployed, who could not have their representatives on the board of directors in this solution. Therefore, there is the Chamber of Commerce and we have a representative of the Chamber of Commerce, there is Mr. Rade Veselinović and he should be on the move. It's a shame and it'd be a fake to say that up to 5. It was a good life in October. It wasn't a good life. We all know that, but I think it's even worse now. We all have to admit that. Although I'm a man from the economy, you can certainly see that the economy is not working, people don't get paid, they live hard. On Saturday, there was an unkind event, which still lit up this point, at least as far as the explanations of all these laws are concerned. On the occasion of 100 days of the new Serbian government, on Saturday, Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic took the president of the union centre in Serbia's lunch, Serbian Union of Unions President Milenko Smiljanic, President of the United Border Union Nenad Canka and Rank Savic, secretary-general of the Association of Independent Unions. At this official lunch, all these laws were processed, as they were communicated between the authorities and the unions, and where the social issues of workers were addressed. I'm just wondering, who paid for this lunch?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5669	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. If not, I'm putting an amendment to the vote. For 49, against 112, there are no abstentions, no 12 votes, a total of 173 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted these amendments. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5670	Dear People's MPs, in the afternoon discussion, we heard two contradictory attitudes, two contradictory claims from representatives of a political option that has been honking on us here for months that they don't lie. However, one of them is not telling the truth. First, this student, the minister, claimed that as he became Minister of Labour, Serbia's economy finally started. He reported that the number of employees in Serbia increased by 20% last year, or nearly 80,000 people were employed in Serbia, as he became minister. I'm making a logical conclusion that an economy that absorbs 80,000 people in such a short time can be employed, and that economy is really going well. Another logical conclusion is that as soon as the economy works, as soon as the economy is in expansion, there is an increased budget inflow, means through taxes and contributions, and this economy can meet its commitments to the state smoothly, and then I see no reason to be so restrictive towards the unemployed. Chuck, the minister said, this student minister said that your belongings to the unemployed would be higher than they have been so far. That's what he said, but that's not what it says in this bill. Then, after this speaker, the head of the DOS parliamentary club, Mr Jovanovic, claimed something contrary from Student Minister Milovanovic. Mr. Jovanovic said the state has no money for the unemployed, that he will not lie, so this bill is so restrictive. Of the two of them, obviously, someone's not telling the truth. Please agree in the future these views of the government and the president of the ruling coalition in this House. Or rather, I think, it's more like the minister of the student doesn't know what he's saying as soon as he can get this information out. We all come from our midst and see what kind of attack this is on the economy, how mass employment is, we haven't had that kind of expansion in the '70s in this country. On this draft law, I was able to invest exactly 17 amendments, how many members of this bill have amendments and additions to the Law on Employment and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons. So the bill is so bad, it shouldn't have been put into congregation procedure at all, but what's there. The parliamentary majority adopted this bill in principle, and now we have the only option to fix it by amendment. I have determined to endure only one amendment. Let's try to make a little compromise, Mr. Minister, in order to increase the social protection of people who lose their jobs. The bottom line of my proposal is that if a worker loses his job, he receives from the state a minimum wage of 50% of the average earnings in Serbia, i.e. the maximum to the average profit level in Serbia. It's very little, I repeat, very little increase compared to your proposal. The government has proposed that the minimum be 40% of the average profit, i.e. 80% of the average profit. I urge you to take this one small step, one small compromise and accept this proposal. We certainly have a budget reserve. In order for this proposed increase to be accepted, let's take for example only those items -- special purposes. Those items in the budget under the name of specific purpose. Let's take Covic 500 million, part of that 500 million for special purposes, let's take that unfortunate Gashi Knezevic what he planned for school reform, the other ministers, the Ministry of his own transformation and so on, give to the poor and give to the unemployed. As for this Mr. Minister, student Milovanovic, he needs to be denied the right to have any money at all, at least until he graduates from college. Come on, give the money to the poor girl.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5671	Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5672	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not about different performances. On the contrary, there are arguments that are just... (Miroljub Veljkovic from place: 60,000 people), so it is true, it is true. So the value of exporting Serbia's economy in the first trimester was $395m, i.e. an increase of 14.8% compared to the same period in 2000. In the first three months of 2001, the Serbian economy covered 49.2% of imports with exports, while the percentage was 42% in the same period last year. 100 million marks have been provided to the Development Fund, etc. But what's the problem? That's not enough to cover all the claims we want to cover. And that we're covering. What are those claims? Only in the field of labour rights, to hold on to it. Seven hundred thirty thousand unemployed and 770,000 people on forced vacations. That's a million and a half. Eighty thousand new jobs, 80,000 workers who have earned the right to work, can't make up for minus one million and a half. It can only reduce, it can increase the resources the state has and these funds are increased and these funds are being spent. What are they spending it on? They spend on regular pensions, they spend on covering the social obligations that the state has towards the population, that's what we do. This law will come into force in two years. I am convinced that we are going to change this law as quickly as it was changed in the previous period, but when unfortunately it was changed, it was because of the difficult circumstances in which the state was. I hope that he will change as our society develops and that freedoms will grow, with which we will be able to face the citizens. But at this point, we can't lie to society and say we have the resources we don't have. It'll be a little bit for everyone, and that's the principle of social justice. It is not true that there are special accounts in the budget from which the funds can be rerouted to this purpose. On the contrary, the number of special accounts is strictly controlled and it is ten times smaller than it was last year. Special accounts only exist to cover those obligations that arise and which will logically appear and cannot be defined by the budget. For example, in the case of the Ministry of Justice and local self-government, in situations where the state is obliged to compensate for funds to a foreign citizen who suffers damage on our country's territory. We can't know what the damage will be today. That's why we're obliged to leave a special account and cover those funds from the fund of that special account. It's nothing but our intention to really spend as much as we have. That doesn't mean anyone's gonna stay on the street, or anyone's gonna be out of funds, at least for the next two years. I am convinced that at this rate we will succeed in two years to change this law, to do a modern law. Not modern in terms of being different, but modern in terms of the need of our society, that we will define different working hours, that we will be able to increase workers' rights and that we will be able to meet the employer at the same time. So it's a process of transition and reforms that are ahead of us and that do not recognise political barriers. If we want to be successful, we're going to have to pass those laws, you're the opposition today, and we're the government or tomorrow you're the government, and we're the opposition. Certainly, this isn't colored in party colors. This is our need. That need is what it is, and we can't change it. That's why we're forced to pass laws like this, to change what the state can't meet. It is true that in two months we remain in debt, as a state, not as a government, 900 million dinars to workers. But we can't say today that we don't recognize that debt. What we have to do is tell the citizens that we're not going to put any extra burden on the few workers who produce something today and who create, among other things, a certain profit that is divided into everyone. So that's our reality. She's not pink. We made it very clear to the citizens in the election campaign. What we said and what we're behind today is that we don't spend our resources on purpose, that everyone can have in mind the spending of these funds, that, among other things, all these laws are made publicly in marathon sessions. This second session of the regular session has been going on for four weeks. We are only in the second session, spending more time than the previous assembly of the Republic's parliament has spent four years. That's enough talking, about our intention, to face arguments here and to come up with concrete facts. They are what they are and they cannot be changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5673	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? He's got a word, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5674	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I consider the good and justifiable amendment submitted by MP Miroljub Veljkovic to the text of the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, for the simple reason that it seems to me that he, in a few, manages to alleviate that limiting part of the rule in the second position, in relation to the first position in that article. So it seems to me that if this is already being said here that this is not a threat to layoffs and that there will be no greater number of unemployed, if that is true, then I don't know why this decision, that is, to accept this amendment from the Serbian Radical Party, would be a problem for someone. If there will be no new unemployed, or there will be no ones in the single number, then it is perfectly normal to accept this amendment that will allow for something better, not particularly, but slightly better regulation than the first position of the same member. So, if their base was higher, we don't take away more than what would have to be taken away from them, if they were temporarily or permanently unemployed, that cash compensation would be paid. It seems to me that it would be something logical and that it wouldn't touch specific rights, that is, specific budgets, if it's true that there will be no new unemployed, if it's true that there won't be so much technological excess, what are they talking about? I think this is exactly the kind of reaction of the regime, which doesn't allow something like this to be accepted because there aren't enough financial resources, it's talking about getting ready, and by some other law, new layoffs of workers and there's going to be a larger number of unemployed people. That is why we invite you not to do anything special, but that as much as it is in our power, the power of MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we also make this effort for citizens who will be unemployed, those who will be unemployed, at least ensure that they have at least 50%, instead of this 40% of what you predicted from the average monthly earnings achieved in the economy of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5675	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 116, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, a total of 175 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go, Mr. Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5676	To Article 3. I submit an amendment and I propose that it be reduced by 50% from the proposed ones, so that companies can pay normal salaries to employees. The proposer of this law did not take into account the overall economic situation and the material capacity of the company, when he proposed such a basis for paying the profits on which taxes and contributions were charged. I agree with the fact that economic operators, who can make payments to employees by this economic growth and development, who are able to pay higher profits than the amounts proposed in the Bill on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, pay also the prescribed rates of taxes and contributions. However, economic operators which do not have the opportunity to pay those amounts will not be in a position to pay even the earnings to employees, let alone taxes and contribute to those profits. I therefore believe that the amounts proposed per degree of education should be reduced by 50%. It would be much smarter if you had provided in the law that economic operators would be free of contributions, year to two, for all workers employed by companies, i.e., employed in a permanent working relationship. Also, I suggest that the same goes for the redundancies who are back in business. These measures would benefit the state, and workers would also have a better chance of getting a job. If a worker loses his job and the state directs him to the labour market, then the state pays him all social benefits and contributions. With this amendment, he would find another job, by serving the state's contributions. So the employer would be a little relieved, and the worker would do his job. If we start with the fact that you intend to shut down 400 to 600,000 jobs, and from what means do you think you're funding social benefits, when and now the inflow of funds is modest? How is it going to be when there's 50% less workers and the same less inflow of funds? As I said at an earlier session of the Republika Srpska Assembly, in this assembly hall, the DOS handed out mandates to representatives of the "Hot Brothers" association to various cult representatives and to some, call the parties. That's why it happens that today's paper is full of reports about the fornications of government members. I understand ladies who defend their honor, but I don't understand everyone else. Some claim that there was sexual abuse, while others deny it, and others regret that they did not participate themselves. Who's gonna mess it up? (The ambassador from the hall throws out: who attacked you, Janjic) Your sister. You're really transparent.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5677	Mr. Janjic, please return to the subject, you were not attacked, please return to the subject. Please focus your attention on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5678	You're really transparent. For me, the Serbian Radicals sect is accused of slaughtering the ballium, and the president of the Serbian Radical Party, Mr. Seselj, is excluded from the session on the same basis. You know very well why you did it. All your dirty actions most argumentative he presents and he is a thorn in your eye for this speaker. You're really the best.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5679	If no one's answering their word again, you've answered. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5680	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this is a very special amendment to the Serbian Radical Party MPs. We've already talked about this, just once again, I'd like to remind you in the National Assembly, but also the public of what it is when it comes to the basis for calculating and paying contributions. So this isn't just something we'd like to protect the rights of employers, it's something we'd like first of all to try to influence, as far as possible, to protect the rights of workers. When you have these rates of contributions, i.e. these basics, for that rate of payment contributions, for the calculation and payment of contributions, then you will also have a situation that employers will try at any cost to stay with as few employees as possible, so that their obligation to the state is lower. It's some elemental logic, it states as a conclusion. A particularly good proposal is a good amendment because of the following fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5681	Go on, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5682	I respect those who are at least able to say - I'm sorry, if nothing else. So, it seems to me that regardless of what the difference is in what is calculated as net payout and gross payout, you can't tell me that it's one, so in the amount of 473,033 dinars can't be that different, it's still the difference of at least 300%, and that's why I think this request is for a reduction, or not to say some other amount, from, say, 5,262 to 950 dinars as a base, so it seems to me that it would be important not to be demagogues, not to be 950, but to be 2,700, or 2,600 to these 5,200 as proposed by the government. It seems to us that this is a major reasonable proposal, as something you can accept and it seems to me that we would protect in a better way, protect, conditionally speaking, but give better and give better conditions and the employer, but as far as it is possible to protect workers' rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5683	Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5684	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will form the basis for profit under the law and collective agreement. By accepting this amendment, we would cut the profits by 50%. That is the essence and therefore this amendment to the proposed law is unacceptable to us. We'd practically cut workers' profits by that. On the one hand, we advocate the exercise of labour rights, and on the other hand, we dispute the right and the very profit that is in itself again, insufficient to live, the life of a decent man. So, we can't support this amendment because by 50%, it would be a reduced income for workers. The very formulation of the basics has not changed compared to everything that has been so far. That's the only reason we can't accept a 50% reduction in base.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5685	If no one calls again, and no one calls, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 55, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 7, a total of 176 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Bozidar Vujic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5686	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose to amend the reduction of the basics proposed in Article 3(2), paragraphs 1 to 8, to suggest a reduction of almost 60%, and the reason for this lies in the reasoning that the Government has tabled, proposing this amendment which amends Article 27j of the existing law. Since the argument is very transparent and clear and it is said to go into nominal amounts, from net to gross earnings and therefore it is necessary to bring this member of the existing, current Law into line and therefore propose this new Article 3. However, the facts, reality and reality are quite different, and that is why I have proposed an amendment to certain reductions, in order for it to really demonstrate what is the government's clear intention. This is the transition from net earnings to gross amounts, and according to that, if you look at what the proposals are now, which are now minimum bases, in any case they are minimal and in no case limit the employer to pay more than he is, but this depends on the business of that economic operator. Since the economy is in a very "enviable" situation, in which it is, it is hard for an economic operator to respect the legal framework and pay off these foundations. That's why I was proud, and that's why my amendment is to that end, that these fundamentals, in any case, should be reduced to the amounts in which they shrink, so I suggested that those reductions be 60% in order to go from net to gross, which is appropriate. If the government, and I think it is, because it seems to me that these amounts are large, have observed the increase in the cost of living, if it has already calculated the planned inflation for this year, and it seems to be too large, then I can figure out why these amounts are so large. But again, I hardly mention that one employer, i.e. one economic operator will be able to comply with this proposed legislative act in the next period, fully fulfil it, and this will bring business into question, because the situation that will be imposed by the first next law to be expected by the Assembly, which is the law on ownership transformation, will bring some correlation and this law with the others expected. And that's what we keep talking about from this pay phone and obviously it's going and there's an evil intention of this government, that everything that's done a little bit, to get into such a position that the state can no longer work and that the state takes it under its own and then the state, based on that future law on ownership transformation, is the only buyer (co-worker) with these new strategic partners.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5687	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 55, against 116 abstentions, there were no votes, 7, a total of 178 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5688	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment makes the same sense as the previous two we talked about and that significantly reduces the base, which is here and where 3,033 is the proposal to be 1,365 dinars, and where 4.427 is our MP has proposed 1,992 dinars, and where 5,262 is there is a proposal to be 2,368 dinars and so on. So it's something between, it's the same percentage we talked about in the previous two amendments, between 50% and 60%. I owe it to myself, although I didn't answer for the line, to say in one sentence that the base and the profit had nothing to do with it, and that the profit could be higher, it doesn't have to be limited to the basis that this was about. It's a reaction to what the government's representative just said, it can be even smaller, and at the same time I think that we would really free the employers of this matter, first of all, but in some ways protect the workers from over-the-counter layoffs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5689	Anyone else answer for a word to this amendment? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 56, against 116, there were no abstentions, no 7. A total of 179 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. The word is Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5690	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tried as well as my colleagues before me, of course, each with some vision of what is optimal, and what should certainly be reduced to the basics for determining the rights of unemployed persons and paying contributions on that basis and suggested that it be 50% less than the Government suggested, with an explanation that all of these amounts are inappropriately high and aim only to fill the budgets through the back of employers, and at the expense of the position of employees. Anything that's negative for the employer, he ends up running on the employee, and he's taking that last shot. It is clear here what is being done and that a much larger number of unemployed are being planned, and a much smaller number of employees, so the government has therefore increased the basics and reduced the rights that the unemployed have on this basis. Once again, let's clear up one situation relating to the determination of these bases. The government promises us here and the government's representatives have said on several occasions - about tax rates later, probably in order to reduce these tax rates, which we do not expect, because we believe there is nothing even of this kind of high-level budget to be filled as much as it will be necessary, or to meet the needs of those who will remain out of work during the year. If we know that in December and January, about 50,000 citizens are out of work, let the trend be the same, so now calculate how much it is in just one year. When it comes to privatisation and finding a strategic partner, as you gentlemen of the DOS have imagined, then that number of unemployed will be even bigger and then we'll probably have a new law on the agenda again, maybe a new law in full, and not only changes and additions, and that base may be triple that, but for nothing, we won't have anything to charge those tax bases and those rates on those tax bases.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5691	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 55, against 104 abstentions, there was no vote of 14, a total of 173 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Jojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5692	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my amendment, I have proposed to reduce the basics for the reason that it is clearly going to the burden of employers, and it should be recognised and it is an indisputable fact, at least from current discussions, and on the other hand, it is evident from the bill itself that it is going to burden itself with personal income and that the foundations are increasing, and no one guarantees that someone will be able to provide them with workers. Citizens expected everything, but they did not expect this much arrest and this much contribution and such laws that would go so far as to question many collectives and many employers to shut down their firms and that many would be forced to fire workers. Today, it was finally, undeniably, that for the first time, it was officially said that 750,000 workers were jobless and that 700,000 workers were on forced leave. Hundreds of thousands of workers expect to be fired, according to my deep conviction and in the future after the adoption of a new law on privatisation. What's going to happen in practice, the promoter didn't take care of enough. First of all, what will employers be forced to do? They will discharge workers or will conclude with many work contracts, and will pay significantly less and pay their contributions to them, and will be forced to pay one part of the funds to workers. What is not good in the draft of this law is that the calculation is carried out in gross amounts and that basis cannot be fulfilled in any way, so many companies will not be able to fulfil these obligations provided for in the law. In law, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can write everything and everything, paper suffers. However, in practice and I believe that many of you are convinced because you are working and you know that it is impossible to provide in the present conditions and circumstances, after so many years of sanctions that have been imposed on our country, changed circumstances and consequences of the bombing and that the aid promised has not reached our country and that it has failed. And, in changed circumstances, I'm sure many employers won't be able to meet their obligations because the foundations are too high. That's why I suggested that the basics for the contribution be reduced by 50% so that workers get higher salaries and can't be connected and this can't be the same as pay. The pay is one thing, and the base is another. Based on the gross earnings in which the work is calculated and included and the work of the night and the overtime and the regress for the annual vacation and the warm meal, so when all of this is summed up, these are extremely high, too high. These amounts may not be too high in due time, but it will take a long time for our country to finally be in line with those countries, which can pay their own income, and for these personal incomes, on these earnings, to contribute to these basics the payments, which are foreseen. Our country cannot become America overnight, no doubt. I hope you'll agree to that. It will take us a lot of time, but in the new circumstances and because of the changed circumstances and the present moment where we are in the opinion that this amendment should be accepted, and that is why I have proposed it, to reduce the base so that as much as possible, it can remain as a profit to be paid to the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5693	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5694	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I will make another argument in favour of the amendments, which are all relatively or almost the same nature. It is, in fact, an amendment submitted due to the fact that there was an earlier possibility, in a text that is now being changed in the law on amendments to this law, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia at the request of the employer and that this relatively low base is reducing up to 50% if the Government realized or realized that the production process would be completely destroyed or if the company or the company were in an extremely difficult position, and I believe that if the government provided that this production process would be able to redefine, it would be able to make any progress in the coming period. I think that ousting these members, with such high bases, to calculate contributions, is indeed to the greatest extent of pressure from employers and perhaps someone will say as their argument - but this will leave those who are the strongest, those who are the healthiest, yes, but those in Serbia today are very little. For years, they've been very few for decades, and it's not a novelty or a world miracle, but it's a question of whether, in such a situation in our economy, we can and may, whether we need to destroy every economic operator, especially those who participate in such a production process. I'm afraid, after all that's happened in Romania and Bulgaria, we're afraid. By the same principle, it was done. Remember that Romania was one of the largest European petrochemical gigans, the second in Europe and today it does not exist in the petrochemical industry. Essentially, you had Bulgaria, which was the largest exporter of vegetables in Europe and today is Bulgaria's vegetable importer. I'm afraid in a way like this and what little we have, even if we have poor production, we're going to be able to destroy ourselves and surrender ourselves completely to the scales of those foreign investors who would be willing to take what's ours without producing after that. to make no progress or progress. That's why I invite you to accept this amendment to Peter Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5695	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 60, against 110, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 6, a total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 3. The amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic and withdrawn. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Culibrk. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5696	Travelling MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4 in which it is spoken - if the employer does not pay the salary by 30 in the month, he is obliged to pay the contributions he has prescribed in the amount of 3,000 to 12,000 dinars. My amendment refers to the fact that usually if an employer can't pay a minimum profit of 1,800 dinars, he has a operating disorder, so it would be fair to give the employer a chance to pay 1,800 dinars to everyone linearly and to pay for the contributions. So, at 1,800 dinars. In this way, both employers and workers would be helped. So we come to the conclusion that all these tax-related legal packages only have the basis to fill the budget. So we only gave the worker 1,800 dinars, and the employer has to pay between 3,000 and 12,000, so the whole function is to fill the budget. When the time has passed in which there has been a disturbance in business, the employer will pay the difference to the worker and also contribute to the tax to the state of social security. In an explanation that rejects my amendment, employers would then mostly pay only a minimum profit of 1,800 dinars. However, this is not true, since the minimum wage can only be paid by the employer when such a decision is taken by the board of directors and the union organisation. Certainly, even the union organisation is not in the interest of constantly giving consent to the employer to pay for 1,800 dinars, but surely that the union organisation would have much more hearing for the employer, and therefore, for itself, when there is a disturbance, to allow the employer to ignore the situation for a month or two and when there is a cycle of business that will be able to pay and pay and contribute, to do so in this way and to pay. That is why I propose that this amendment be adopted and that both workers and employers be helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5697	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5698	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, respected members of the government, I think this amendment by my fellow Member, Culibrka, should be accepted because he inaugurates the principle of justice. It is a logical response to the current economic situation, which we are in and should not forget that we now have the economy of Serbia, which is largely inequitable. Almost 60% of Serbia's economy is inequitable. And capacity employment is only 30% according to official data. This amendment, by adopting it, allows the company that has a particular production problem to continue to operate. In this amendment, it provides for the possibility to make a payment of the contribution of the minimum personal income, i.e. to be the basis for the payment of the contribution, while at the same time making that minimum personal income the amount to be received by the worker. Under the bill of law, which is now in the Assembly, the employer has an obligation only to pay contributions, and there is no obligation to pay any part of the personal income for the employees. This amendment gives the possibility that the difficulties in which a collective is located can be overcome. In the end, the minimum personal income is not just about the management structure. The Management Board and the Union should be made aware of this, and there are other state bodies that can determine whether, after overcoming the economic difficulties in which the company is located, whether the provisions of the law are respected. And finally, I think that accepting this law would create the possibility of potentially warning the company of some possible negative employee reactions, such as strike and the like, in relation to the fact that the employer has an obligation to make payments to the state, and there is no obligation to pay personal income to the employees. For that reason, I think this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5699	Since there are no more applications for discussion, I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Marko Culibrk. Please state by voting. For 56, April 105, two abstentions, not 10, a total of 173 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from the Messenger of the People, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5700	Article 6 of this Act states that the Authority is responsible for payment services, that by the end of the current month at the latest, it shall notify the competent Republic tax authority of employers who have not made any payments for the previous month or made contributions in accordance with Article 125 of this Act. The tax authority shall, within eight days of receipt of the notification, establish the obligation of the employer to make contributions in accordance with Article 125 of this Act within a specified period. I think, and I believe, that Article 6 of this law should be deleted, because many companies will not be able to pay off the earnings provided for in Article 3 of this Law, and it is too much to introduce any legislation, in order to comply with this law. In view of the fact that the parliamentary majority in the Assembly has proved by working so far that only the voting machine of the Government and that the adoption and adoption of this bill will harm the business's economic development, I propose that, under Article 17 of this proposal, the law, which states that it will apply from 1.09.2001, be applied to the same since 1.01.2002, in order to allow businesses to adapt to new conditions of business, i.e. until we bring down this immoral DOS, left-wing government. Gentlemen, get ready to settle the bill. Even the greatest optimists don't give you more than three months of government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5701	Is anyone else answering for a discussion? The word has been given by MP Aleksandar Vukic, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5702	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this amendment is important to accept, because I don't know what this is supposed to mean within a certain time limit? What's the deadline? Is it a period of 7, 8 days, or a 30-day period, or a half-year term, or a year's term? So what is that obligation if it is said - within a certain time limit, and it is not known and nowhere is precise in the legal text that is the deadline. So, it would be good if the bill promoter had set some deadline, that this would be a congenital norm, that it could be talked about a certain obligation of the tax authority, and of course, an employer who would be obliged to pay that contribution, and not like this, no one knows what that deadline is and such a standard leaves the possibility and the right to create arbitraryness, which in no way is good. That is why I call on you to accept the amendment of the People's MP of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5703	Is anyone else applying for a discussion under this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendments submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic to the vote. Please state by voting. For 55, against 106, there were no statesmen, there was no 13 vote, a total of 174 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5704	Gentlemen, this is now a purely technical question and I really don't see why this amendment is being rejected. It is simply necessary, in the position of Article 3 of Article 27j-1, that the tax authority shall, no later than eight days after receipt of the notice referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article, establish the obligation of the employer to make a contribution within a specified period, in accordance with this law. That -- in a certain period, in fact, here's an indefinite deadline. The amendment provided for it to be within 30 days, simply, to be determined, however, to in some way provide for principle and equality and not to allow the tax authority to determine what time limit it is, but to have this Assembly, in fact, set that deadline in this law. It is so simple and clear, it provides both the accuracy of the law and the principle of equality of all employers. What is also very important and important is that the law should always avoid these certain deadlines, or some undefined things, in order to reduce the possibility of manipulation on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5705	Is anyone else answering for a discussion under this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment submitted by MP Branislav Blazic to the vote. For 56, against 98, the abstentioned two, did not vote 19, a total of 175 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Now we have one proposal to add a new member. National MP Petar Petrovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article be added after article 8. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5706	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, reading the Law on Employment and Exercise of Unemployed Persons and comparing it with the Bill of Law I mentioned, with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Revenue and Costs, which we adopted at the previous session of the Assembly, came to my attention, consulting the Professional Service of the Party of Serbian Unity, that there is one legal gap in the draft law on employment and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons, and for this reason I have submitted this amendment, which reads as follows: "Article 34(2) of the Bureau's work" puts the point, and the words "and the financial plan of the Institute", are deleted. "Current Article 9. - The 17th becomes members of the 10th. - 18. In the former Article 18, which becomes a member of the 19th word, "9, 10 and 15" is replaced by the words "10, 11 and 16." Why? As I said, the provisions of Article 15. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Expenses and Public Expenses, adopted at the previous session of the National Assembly, provides that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia provides for the financial and final accounts of the social security organisation. However, the provision of an existing law to Article 34(2) provides for the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the financial plan of the Republic Labour Market Institute. One logical legal question arises, who will give consent to the final account and the financial plan of the Institute, whether the Government or the National Assembly? If we have adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses, that this should be done by the National Assembly, it is quite logical and legally justified and understandable to have the need to adopt, so to say, a new member of the law and to enter the proposal on amendments and additions to the existing law. I'm sorry that I saw it and my professional service, and the ministry that was responsible and which gave the amendment and supplementation proposal, didn't see it, with its professional services. Thank you. [[Applause of the Serbian Unity Party.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5707	Is anyone else applying for a word after this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendments submitted by MP Petar Petrovic to the vote. Please vote. For 60, against 95, three abstentions, did not vote 19, a total of 177 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We're moving on to Article 12. The 12th amendment was submitted by MPs Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Goran Cvetanovic. The Government, the Committee on Labour and Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does anyone sign up for a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5708	Article 12. Article 41b is deleted. The old Law, which states that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at the request of the employer for individual activities, can establish lower basics for payment of contributions from Article 27j, the position of the third and fifth of this law, but not lower than 50% in the manner and procedure of the prescribed act, and then give some conditions. I agree that the laws must be applied equally to all taxpayers. However, during this transitional period, no matter what I think of the Government drawn up by the DOS, I have asked the amendment to delete Article 12, in order to allow the Government to have some information in this transitional period, and that due to some justified demands, it can reduce the basis for paying the contributions. This may not be a lasting character, but it can also be avoided in the adoption of a new law. However, it does not seem worth much to talk about, for there are some 105 - 106 DOS MPs in this room. If there were no opposition, there would be no working conditions, because obviously, it is more important for the reconstruction of events in the Social Democratic Party, that the vice president....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5709	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5710	... that the vice presidents of the government prefer to pursue a secretary or secretary, depending on their tendency, rather than on what they do in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5711	Is anyone else answering for a discussion on this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. Please vote. For 57, against 98, one abstention, 21 did not vote, a total of 177 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 13th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Is anyone applying for a discussion under this amendment by authorized participants in the debate? No, I don't. ) If not, I put the amendment tabled by Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic to the vote. I'm sorry, I'm asking someone from the technical service to come, there's been a system crash, I don't have anything on the screen here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5712	I conclude the vote and declare: 59 votes against 107, no abstentions, 14 votes, 180 MPs are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed a review of the Bill's proposal in particular and a decision on amendments, does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. ) I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. We have the following situation, Mr Janjic submitted an amendment to Article 14(6). Article 14 has no position 6 and for this reason the amendment has not been processed and has not been included. We'll arrange for Mr. Janjic to tell us what's going on. We can't, by procedure, make a statement, but I'll give him my word to explain what's going on, what's being suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5713	I don't know why it bothers you so much if there's been a single typing error, instead of Article 2, you've written Section 6. It doesn't change anything. Article 14 should be specified. The draft law on employment and the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons, in accordance with the rules on pension and disability insurance, shall be specified in the light of whether the cash compensation will be paid to the person by the time the person: (a) meet only one of the conditions for retirement, age or year of retirement; (b) when the person fulfils both these conditions; and (c) it shall be left to the person to choose whether an old pension with both conditions met. I propose that the Ministry of Labour and Employment of the Republic of Serbia or the Government of the Republic of Serbia form an independent expert commission on the legality of the implementation of the employment programme. The programmes are as follows: (a) new employment programmes, grant programmes or loans and investment programmes for business space, machine purchase, equipment and the like. This is what I propose for reasons why individual legal entities use labour market funds on different grounds, and the effects are small or no. On the one hand, we have, that certain economic operators use these means on several occasions, because they are close to those who decide on the means, on the other hand, we have that the economic operators, whose assets are really needed and would have certain effects on the employment and equipment of the operators, are not able to use these funds, because they are not close to those who decide on the funds. Easier said, these funds are largely shared between those who have unintendedly used them and those who have not purposely shared them. We have a lot of examples of the abuse of these funds, where the economic operators were taking certain means to receive the trainees without even receiving the trainees in a working relationship, during which the funds were allocated. I propose that a multi-party expert commission carry out an insight into the work of the bodies mentioned and inform the Assembly of this, with a proposal for measures to improve the work in these institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5714	That's how we solved this problem. I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Law on the exercise of the rights of unemployed persons, in general. I ask the MPs to vote. For 120, against 58, a abstentioned one, did not vote 5, a total of 184 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Law on the Rights of Unemployed Persons. We move to item 14 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pensions and INVALID Security You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Srboljub Zivanovic, Tomislav Nikolic, Vojislav Obradovic, Petar Jojic, Marko Culibrk, Stevan Gudurić, Rade Bajic, Slobodan Janjic, Bozidar Vujic, Toma Busetic, Milena Milosevic, Dragan Rafailović, Natasa Jovanovic, Rajko Baralić, Petar Petrovic, Dragoljub Stamenković and Goran Cvetanović, as well as the government's opinion on the amendments submitted. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. At a session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, National Envoy Dragan Rafaelovic withdrew his amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law. I'm opening a principled search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He wants to. ) He has the word Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5715	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, has left me with a simple task, since the previous Law has been passed, and in this bill nothing fundamental changes, fundamental changes are being made. The basics for the calculation of tax and contribution payments, of course, in this proposal the law is formulated in the same way as in the previous one which has just been adopted. I hope most of the arguments are already exhausted in the previous debate. I'd just like to say, to explain to those who insist on a major increase in base, so the basics are sometimes calculated on the basis of net wages, they're now accounted for on the basis of gross wages and hence so much increase. So when we say in some proposals, in some amendments, that basics should be 50% less than proposed, that actually means that they should be less gross than they were in the net. I don't think there's really any reason to talk about this any further. I hope this law will be passed more quickly than before. Also, I hope you understand that there is no basis for the basis for one social security policy to be established in another way than for another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5716	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Do representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, the first elected MP is Zivko Selaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5717	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party is also a large number of pensioners, which is why we advocate the adoption of such solutions in laws that will contribute to improving their material position. This, however, is not provided by this law, nor by the laws that have already been adopted (i.e. a package of tax laws). I'll point out why. Transparently, even demagogue sounds like it, even for laymen, that by accounting for the personal income of receiving for a warm meal, from 200 to 300 dinars per month, as well as a regression that does not exceed more than two to three thousand dinars per year, will increase the income or basis for the collection of pensions. In addition to this unreality in the calculation of gross personal income should be entered as a basis, a field supplement of daily living and other, which the vast majority of employees will never receive because ordinary workers - insurance workers are not sent to such fields and travel for which compensation is received. Since the adoption of this law, which will be adopted by everyone so far, because DOS has a vast majority, will not show a net but new gross profit, it should mean that the percentage of that growth will be increased by pension. If that were the case, the Serb Unity Party parliamentary group would support the law. However, the fact that, according to the proposal for a financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, as well as information provided by public information, prepares a change in the current pension harmonisation solution, under which pensions from 1 June 2001 would not be harmonised according to the trend in profits but towards the rise in prices to a small extent, means that there will be no improvement but a deterioration in the material situation of pensioners. We certainly cannot accept this, and therefore the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party will not vote to pass this, that is, such a law on pension and disability insurance. Our public, and most MPs probably do not know that pension and disability insurance rights, almost in general, are governed by the federal law and that all solutions are interlinked and as such bring to an equal position all users of rights and emigrants, in the entire territory of Yugoslavia, independently of what period they exercise the right from this insurance. A change of only one solution will lead to significant problems in this system. This means, in practice, that the adoption of this law will question the relationship: the Federal and Republic Law, the overall parent records, which is regulated in the general federal law, whose data are used to determine the level of the right, which was adopted 30 years ago and are based on data on net earnings achieved; the rights acquired since the establishment of a pension and disability insurance system based on the principle of net earnings, would lead to the emergence of two categories of insurance and users, and others. I would like to point out what the legislator says in this proposal: that so far the regress, a warm meal and another form of remuneration of personal income in food "half-meat" and similarly treated as an illegal form of remuneration of personal income and avoidance of businesses and employers from paying contributions and other obligations. With all this in mind, a partial amendment to this law is unacceptable. If this was the reason and was the objective, a second more celery solution could be found that would make employers not to avoid paying taxes and contributing to these incomes, not in this way, which is contrary to the provisions of Article 51. Federal labour law. How serious and significant the system of pension and disability insurance for the provision of material and social security of citizens is, says the solution firmly in Article 24. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the rights acquired under the Pension and Industrial Insurance Act cannot be taken away or restricted. All of this must therefore be taken into account when amending and supplementing the solutions set out in the applicable regulations, from this area and any amendments must be made on the basis of detailed consideration of its advantages and consequences and based on broad consultations. The Serbian Unity Party Group would always support the necessary changes in this system that will contribute to its further adaptation, to the market economy but which will not lead to further deterioration of the material situation of pensioners and other rights in this insurance but rather to the improvement of the situation. The fact that the material situation of pensioners is not being taken care of is also the fact that the pensions achieved in the pension fund are almost two and a half months late, and in the farmer's fund almost two years. What does that mean for the standards of pensioners and their families in the present conditions, there is no need to explain. It is not against the public, and especially the Government of the Republic of Serbia to remind that the law, as it will be, depends on the fate and life of 1,265,000 pensioners from the regular working relationship, 220.000 farmers, i.e. the pensioner of private activity, as well as about 70,000 self-employed persons, i.e. private persons. In addition, neither during the adoption of the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001 nor in the draft financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2001, there was nor a word on the payment of the so-called "big debt" to pensioners for the period from 1 April 1994 to 30 June 1995, which is about two and a half pensions, which is provided by Article 149. The Republic pension and disability insurance law must be paid off. And farmers have a special story, which is a shame to mention. When it is known that pension is an economic and not social category, because people have earned, that it is the sight of delayed spending of earnings, i.e. the type of savings guaranteed by the state, it is incomprehensible that no solution has yet been found in this regard. On the other hand, there are solutions for the payment of the so-called old foreign exchange savings, which the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party certainly supports, but we advocate that the government, as soon as possible, takes measures to pay the pensioners the said debt, which, in fact, is a new saving whose payment is constantly questionable. We expect better said, we demand that the government find the appropriate solutions to ensure that pension payments are made on a regular and timely basis, as DOS in the pre-election pension campaign and pensioners were a significant factor in obtaining voters. From all this, it follows that the bill was done too quickly because of the uncertainty of Serbia-Montenegro's status, i.e. the status of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. It is therefore a better solution to wait for the final decision on the status of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and only then does this very important document, i.e. Retirement and invalidity insurance law. With all these circumstances and facts in mind, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party also submitted several amendments to the bill. At the end of all of this, I want to underline, from all the above circumstances, the parliamentary group of the Serbian Unity Party will not vote for this law, because by adopting the same one, a standard of pensioners would be called into question.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5718	The word is made by Minister Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5719	This is a law that regulates pensioners' rights, pension conditions. It's federal law, and we know that, of course. Indeed, right now, to open a debate about all the solutions relating to the pension system, this debate could take a very long time, but there are no such proposals here. I'll explain why they don't exist. So, as a government, we agreed when which laws will go through the assembly procedure, because it is clear that all laws prepared in a serious way and in a serious way treated by MPs cannot all go through at the same time and through the order. What has been changed in this law, as well as in all the laws relating to social contributions, has only been changed because it goes from net to gross wages and only these changes have been made. So it's not about changing the status of pensioners, it's not about any other changes. Changes related to the pension system proposal will be formulated by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5720	The People's Messenger, Milorad Mircic, has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5721	Better Petar Jojic than Vuk Obradovic. Terminologically, let's get it straight. It is true that this is another amendment to the law that is part of the government's social policy and the resolution minister has forgotten to say, that in addition to this base based on gross income, the government has introduced another new category, which is the maximum basis. It's a five-month average in the Republic, or more specifically the average in the economy. It is something that the government should finally, however, we Serbian radicals think that if you are preparing these laws for the future, to coordinate not only termologically, but essentially, what is the average in the Republic of Serbia and what is the average in the economy. Everyone knows that in the Republic of Serbia, the average is higher than the average achieved in the economy, so that in these laws, from this social set, they must be harmonised, which will be the average. So far, it's not that important, because the real conditions of life and what these laws suggest aren't enough for a minimum to survive. What is essential and this proposal, is precisely what DOS MPs are, however, few, except for the leader of this DOS corporation, went out after this speaker and explained the proposal and these changes and additions, as well as before with great concern for workers, in particular in this case for those people who were able to exercise their rights, the rights relating to pension and was explained to that fact which was previously, the people who were in a situation of retirement faced, as you say, with a harsh reality, that they were not paid into the pension fund and that this government as the main task and the main objective, i.e. the right to do so, has to correct these injustices. Don't deceive the public. People aren't that naive. Any man who appears with a request to meet retirement conditions in these cases, which you state -- which are extreme cases, and on the basis of extreme cases, there can never be a rule, and in particular the law -- there is another way or another way that he can achieve it, and these are all the legal bases that force the employer or the company to pay back the backlogs of the pension fund. It's being implemented in practice and there's no one who couldn't exercise his retirement rights, only it's about the time he's forced to wait. Another thing, how realistic it is now to predict that this is going to be the right parameters, when it comes to the republican average or the base that's based on that average. We all know that the economy is about to collapse, and we all know what the standard is. What is realistic to expect from you is that this average will be between minimum earnings, gross profits in the economy and maximum humanitarian aid to the international community. This minimum gross earnings will be changed according to the work of the economy, i.e. activities in the economy, and this international humanitarian aid will also be changed, because, obviously, you gentlemen do not enjoy such trust in the West from those who give you a spoon, so that the government still has to consider what reality is now. Reality is what the federal law provides. I understand that the Republic government wants to improve or benefit Serbia's citizens in some parts of the law, but the bottom line is that, no matter how much you accept it or not, you have to accept the federal law, the federal law that regulates this area is still defined as a model of net earnings accounting. There may be a change, and I suppose, since you have a majority in the federal parliament there, that there will be a change and these laws, but until there is a change, you have to bring these republican laws into line with federal legal acts. The fact is also that when it comes to restriction, the biggest basis is that in the government's explanation, solidarity is called for. You could say there's a certain solidarity. A certain solidarity in such a way that it is believed that those who have the opportunity to pay more, to limit themselves to five averages, to transfer the remaining or higher funds to those who do not have, but that is contrary to your declarative interest in the pre-election campaign, to be a competition, that you will be only a factor of correction, without you getting involved in the economy, you will not interfere in any relationship, which is obvious from the amendment and addition of this law, and the government is also denying that it is the average income, or average income in the Republic, which the Government has so far determined, not in a literal sense that it has determined, but rather that it was a guarantee in front of the state that it stands behind that official data that should mark the average. The government, now, simply restricts those who are possibly able to pay off this base more than a five-fold average. This is the illogicalness or rather the opposite of what you said in the pre-election campaign, in which you swear every time you go out for this pay phone, that you are the ones who do not want to create and participate in an economy in which the state will have a decisive word, and you are defending yourself from determining what the average is in Serbia, because the government would in some way assume responsibility. This is how responsibility, when it comes to average income or earnings in Serbia, is transferred to an official organisation or institutions authorised to publish averages, and in business or labour organisations based on these data, the average earnings, or the minimum earnings, based on average, will be determined by the director and the trade union on the basis of this data. The government is neutral here. The government eventually leaves itself with a reserve or security to intervene or to rule if there is a dispute, which is, say, an official house registered to publish such data, which is relevant, which is G-17 or an institute that is part of Mr. Labus or his activity. You left that to have one spare to intervene after all. In the end, no matter how many of you gentlemen have served the passwords, how much you want to be in a kind of demagogy, although I don't want to be rude, you want to explain these laws, the right place to explain and defend these laws is this pay phone. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. We understand and we're telling you from this pay phone how "real laws" these are, but explain that to the people. The people of your laws are already feeling it. He already feels in his pocket. If you want to help the pensioners, you have more ways. Reduce their electricity price, lower the cost of utility services, reduce everything that is more expensive during your DOS government. Here, it's important that you keep throwing it away. At least you have an organ that you can understand, but what that organ serves you for some other purpose is I can't help you. You have additional resources, say, that certain funds that are spent today at the Sava Centre to prove and reconstruct events, if you gave it to the pensioners would help them and they would be grateful to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5722	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I apologize for having some problems with my eyes today with these very unesthetically improbable acts, but I hope you'll have enough understanding for that. We listened to Minister Matkovic, who said a few sentences. Since I've been an MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or federal, I've never heard a brief explanation of a law. It doesn't always have to be bad, but I'd say what we heard could have been an explanation for any of the previous laws and we didn't find out anything new. It is also true that we cannot enter into the measure of everything relating to the issues and problems of pensioners, their status, their receipts, their difficult material position, because it has been regulated by other legal acts but I would point to a few things why the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group is against this bill. Therefore, the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act increases the basis for taxes and contributions. It is exactly as established by other laws under the so-called socio-work legislation, the Law on Imminences and Supplements to the Employment and Labour Laws, are exactly the same and is true from the point of view of government and regimes in order to make it very unfavourable and quite illogical for different basics to appear for one insurance. But it's our interest in the opposition. That's our interest. If we happen to be able to convince the parliamentary majority not to accept such a drastic increase in base, then we will calculate and see that what you said is not true is just a difference, because the basics are calculated earlier on net salary and today based on gross salary. There are incomparably greater differences. You know, ratio 1:7 is not the relationship between net wages and gross wages, sometimes, nor is it today, what is the relationship in differences between the basics between 4,733,00 dinars or, say, between 800,00 dinars and 4.427.00 dinars. This is a much bigger difference than the difference that is calculated only on the basis of net wages and gross wages. Furthermore, in an explanation, you may not have noticed it, which has no direct connection with the law itself, but it is good that the biller admits it, you could read in the last part where it is said: "There will be a reduction in the current rate of contributions to pension and disability insurance. It is estimated that the proposed bases and rates, the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, will generate a slightly smaller income, which will be compensated from the Republic's budget." This just confirms our thesis and everything we have been saying to the previous law, everything we have pointed to in this National Assembly and in the public, that there will be a much greater number of unemployed and that even such an increased basis for calculating taxes and contributions will not be able to compensate and will not be enough to pay off our social benefits and contributions to our currently most vulnerable persons. It is good for the government to admit it in its explanation, but in the previous Law it had a completely different explanation. It would be good if someone who prepares these laws in the reasons of the law with the same purpose, with the same purpose, almost identical solutions, did not provide a diametric political explanation. Secondly, when you talk about being a demagogy to talk about the difficult situation of pensioners at the moment, and that we should not pay attention to it, especially when it comes to the bill itself, which does not regulate the matter at all, it would also be good to have no demagogue attempts to say that this will greatly improve the position of our oldest citizens. He won't. Even what is said to be employed in the exercise of pension rights, when they are determined by the right to pension, incomparably greater rights or higher incomes, is not true. You know it determines the computer. It takes 10 of the best years on average and then you have as much pension as you've had in those 10 years, which is the best possible way to regulate it. I just want to point out the fact that it's not being used in such a way as to make an argument against those who would want something else with the law itself or the bill of law that the government has made to say. It is true that he is very related and close to all previous laws. That is our reason to be against him, but you must endure all those who want to say everything this matter has to do with, especially when we are in some kind of real media blockade and when your statement will mostly be seen on television, or in one statement of criticism of all opposition MPs, you will hardly see anything. I couldn't believe I'd be able to watch Miran Geneva and he'd have the best report on Studio B. If someone had told me three or four or five months ago, I wouldn't have trusted him. But on other media and television, you can't even hear it. I'm not saying this directly to you. I'm telling someone else. It would be interesting to say that RTS has not entered the Serbian Radical Party at all for seven months. They did not enter the Serbian Radical Party at all. That's all I'm telling you because it was happening the same way, is that, Mr. Ivkovic, between 1993 and 1996, then three years did not enter the Serbian Radical Party. But it doesn't matter, we'll use this opportunity to explain to the citizens what our political interest is, and to explain to them what the government is doing. From the great reforms that have been announced, we've got almost nothing. This law proposes something that we had in the first of the laws of social labour law, and absolutely nothing more. When these reforms will follow, when these democratic changes will follow, no one knows a word about it. Until then, a hack against Serbian radicals will be conducted, anyone who arrives and in the way he arrives will be used the worst in this country against them, numerous racketeeres will be used, Petar Panic will be used against Serbian radicals, for whatever you need, but it can't last forever. So I ask you that when you talk about reforms, when you talk about democratic changes, to say what kind of reforms are ahead for you, what is it that we are about to do, what is it that we can expect? Because the only thing I agree with you, which is true, is that this law does not solve anything new, that we have not solved with previous legal proposals. That's true, but we're asking the question - are those the reforms we were expecting? It has been over 100 days, and before that there should have been certain legal projects, and in particular, what is even in this bill, which will do any good to one of our own, above all the worst citizens, but even those others, whose basics for tax and contribution are, above all, a huge burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5724	There is a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. First of all, I must say that, instead of the proposed solutions in the bill, it is going to improve the conditions for the exercise of the right to pension and disability insurance, to protect and improve people with disabilities, as well as other categories of disability, as well as workers with altered and remaining work capacity, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, rather than improving these conditions for workers, it maximums the position of all categories of insurance to achieve their pension and disability insurance rights proposed by the proposed law. This is best seen from the data relating to the payment of insurance contributions by the obligors and employers. Is it not clear how the Proposer could have gone to the Assembly with such a proposal and put solutions into the bill that are absolutely unacceptable at the moment? Namely, the bill provides for large bases to be accounted for and paid for contributions to pension and disability insurance. Ranges ranging from 3,033, to 12,724 dinars themselves say that, in practice, this obligation will not be implemented by the payer. Due to the financial inability and inability of employers at this time, you all know that the production process has almost stopped and many companies are absolutely operating at the limit of profitability. With these enormous interventions of income from enterprises, it will put businesses in a position to work for expenses, pension and disability insurance expenditure, while creating conditions that the employer will not be able to pay the workers for their living existence. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would also like to point out that the proposal for this law is contrary to the federal law on pension and disability insurance and the Constitution. This bill had to be in agreement with the highest legal acts in our country. It is absolutely unacceptable that the base count is done in gross amount, including here a warm meal, a regression and a field supplement, night work, work for state and religious holidays, work longer than full-time, so that the calculation is done and that the basis is established. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's far more convenient for workers to base on the calculation of pension and disability insurance as a net profit. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a very important question is being raised, and it is debated, and I believe you will agree, many - the question arises: how will "Krusik" - Valjevo, "Freedom" and "Cer" - Chačak, how will the petrochemical complex, or industrial zone in Pancheva, "Lola", "Utva", "Azotara", "Petrochemia", "Rafineria" and many others who have suffered huge damages and who cannot operate, how will these companies provide funds for pension and disability insurance, in the established foundations and solutions offered by the legislator? I don't think that's going to be possible. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, I would like to remind you that even the Republic Constitution is not in line with the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which is why I think it must be kept in mind and the Federal Constitution, which has a primate on the Republic Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, these narrow down the rights of workers to meet the new conditions. It is seen from the bill that the priority for payment will be the contribution, as will those previous laws, which thus bring solutions and regulate this area. And this area is regulated in a priority way, so the workers' profits will be the last. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to find this law and to be realized, it is necessary to say when the salaries of workers will be higher? It is necessary to say the truth - when will the process of production be increased? Without increasing the production process in our country, it is not possible to move one step further. In the process of production, the current government is not investing enough, and it is known that, if we want to provide funding for the budget, it is necessary to launch the production process, invest more than it invests, and thus produce and sell, and also provide funds for the budget from the sale of funds and products. When will there be a bigger pension? These are the questions our citizens expect to answer. Passing these laws isn't enough. This is just one formal thing. The law is easy to pass, but the question is, will this law be possible in application and realisation? I'm not an optimist here. I have to say, whether someone liked it or not, but the dissatisfaction with the citizens is great, fear is great with the citizens. Which is why -- because at this point in our country, those things are not happening in the positive direction that were promised, and those that our citizens were expecting. I'm in touch with a number of citizens. The other day, a pensioner stopped me and said, "Well, please, I have a pension of 2,800 dinars, and I paid 200 dinars for a woman, and now I have to pay it 1,200 dinars." As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, things don't go at the speed we expected, and that's why I'm thinking that this law will not be applied in practice, but today I've heard that it's in the plan and that it's possible that the laws that are being passed quickly are also changing quickly. And it is certain that this law, as I estimate, will be passed and adopted by most MPs in this House, from a new authority, but I am sure that this law will quickly experience changes and additions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5726	He has the word of Minister Gordana Matkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5727	I'm sorry, I'd just like to make one clarification, which applies to the basics. Mr. Vukic well noticed that in the previous Law there were amounts - basics, nets, which are indeed incomparably smaller than are now gross foundations. So it's about amounts that were adequate at the moment when that Law was passed. Meanwhile, as in the Law, both then and present, the foundations will be aligned with the movement of a three-month salary in the economy. So now this base that used to be 470 dinars is now like a gross 3,000. At this point, the net would be 1,700 dinars. So that jump really isn't what it might look like if you were just looking at absolute amounts. So, in the meantime, according to both legal solutions, there are alignments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5728	The People's Messenger, Gordana Pop - Lazić, has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, if you had devoted a little more time to your opening statement, you probably wouldn't need to go out for a pay phone after every MP, who wants to give his opinion on the bill that the Government sent to the National Assembly. You think that probably, given the same problem as the employment and labour laws, the cause and consequence of all these laws is the same. Then there's no need to talk about it anymore. But as you can see, there is something new to say, and always these categories are special categories, special social categories that require special attention. It does not necessarily mean that if we solve the problem of employment and the exercise of the rights of the unemployed in one way, we cannot solve the problem of the pensioner and the disabled in another way. That's what it's all about. Maybe it's too much, I didn't mean to be rude, but I just needed to talk to you like this. The basis on which pension and disability insurance contributions are calculated and paid, and you said it for the simplest work of up to 470 dinars, and you already say 1,665 dinars. And it's gradually going and we can't follow those numbers the way you put them in terms, because you didn't give the right numbers, and we think it's too high, because when we pass the law, we have exactly what's going on today. We'll probably have a synchronization after three months, and there's no need to go back to that. This is obviously just another hypothetical situation, which DOS predicted, who in our terms of engagement can pay for more profits than the ones the promoter has set here as the basis for which the contribution must be paid. There's very few of them. The government is obviously aware of that. That's why he wants to take what she's guaranteed to be filled with funds and budgets, and if the employer will be able to pay it and set it apart, that's something the government doesn't care about. It is clear, however, that the account promoter with a higher number of unemployed, i.e. a smaller number of employees, thus increasing the base five times more, as we see it from the explanation, and the explanation is not good, so that is the proposaler's problem. Rigorous payment control is also foreseen. First, by the payment service, and then by the tax authority which is due no later than eight days after receiving a notice from the employer that he has not paid the profits and contributions, determines the employer's obligation to pay a contribution within a certain period in accordance with the Law. Again, we have an indefinite deadline, as well as in the previous Law, which is not like a formulation of any legal project. The deadline simply has to be defined or fixed or has to be defined in relation to some parameters that are tangible. Who in the Administration of Revenue will decide on how much time it will give to the employer to pay for what is paid. Probably some gray eminence in the income administration, and then there's room for that gray eminence to be some father, some stepdad, and there's room for bribery. How much bribery will be, who will give it, again depending on who has a greater interest in it. Sometimes competition itself. What's interesting is what our proposal says when it talks about the amount of financial resources needed to implement this law. Mr. Wolfie noticed that, but I have to quote it one more time. Since something like this has been hidden under the previous Law: "The transition from a net to a gross basis, including some other personal income, represents an increase in the basis for paying contributions to pension and disability insurance. For these reasons, there will be a reduction in the existing rate of contributions to pension and disability insurance. It is estimated that the proposed bases and rates, the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Employees, will generate a slightly smaller income, which will be compensated from the Republic's budget." When it will happen, there will be a reduction in the rate of contribution. We ask, we expect the answer, you promise, we don't believe. Although it is expected to be smaller multiple, I am convinced there will not be a single percent reduction. When you claim that a lower income is expected in the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance and that the difference will have to be compensated from the Republic's budget, the Government is obviously aware and must not hide that it will have to allocate additional funding to the Pension and Disabilities Fund. Regardless of the high base on which contributions will be paid, the number of those who will be able to pay it will be very small, or the number of employees will be very small, and the number of unemployed will be very large, the number of pensioners is increasing from year to year. It's possible that it's quite the opposite of what I've predicted right now as a possibility and characterized here as a negativity, provided the six billion dollars arrive and then to cure all our economic pains. Now we're actually clear when we talk about these social laws, which is why we first adopted tax laws at this session, and then labour-social issues laws. Tax laws have shown us and proved how the government imagines to take what can be taken from citizens on the basis of taxes, so that employers are now taken as much as they can be taken, and then made it clear to us that the state will, through its donations, return to its citizens. We don't expect any improvement, but it's clear that you're being itchy by those 40 billion budget deficits that you don't know how to patch up. This is your basic problem and you are trying in every way possible to replace it, that what you have lied to abroad, that it will help you to implement your democracy as they wish. You'll have to find all those six billion somewhere here in the country, and that's impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5730	The People's MP Vitomir Plužarevic has the word, followed by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law does not change the essence except for the basics that are regulated by these proposals. Most of the arguments are exhausted in previous laws so that I will focus this entire contribution to the discussion on this law that is on the agenda, which is the bill on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. This bill is a commentary of previous laws - those laws that we adopted in the previous sessions of the Assembly, and the government proposed them. This bill, which regulates the pension and invalidity issue, is merely a continuation of DOS policy, which wants the law package to pass as quickly as possible through the Assembly procedure through the introduction of payment classes and the entry into the foundations for the acquisition of future funds. The gross salary comment has already been commented by us Serbian radicals, and you are today introducing pay classes in eight items. So the first and second degree of professional training - 3,033 dinars and the 8th degree of 12,724 dinars. Someone said this government has no intention of lying. That's not true. The government is really lying to these laws. She is not lying about lying, but meeting the obligations of her procurators to all those obligations that the government has promised to the people who have approved these legal projects. You know who these people are. We've seen that the government is actually reducing the rights of workers with all these projects. What's it gonna do to workers, according to you, so many rights when they just have to work, not to have any more rights? Previous laws discuss the thesis that between 700,000 and a million workers should be fired, and then selectively received. This law advocates that the safety of workers should be regulated by the gross earnings system. Or that the future might be better than the past. That's what all normal people think, but which is what you DOS gentlemen are going to support when you don't have economic support for this law either. And this law is based on the idea of conjecture. That says he doesn't have a clear path ahead of him. I didn't think everything should be ideal, but there is a need for this law to succeed only when the government provides financial support of 6 billion. The previous, or existing law regulates this matter as a complicated system that artificially came to a solution. And that's not true. All the receipts the worker received from the employer were the resourcefulness of society and the time we lived in. It was meant to survive (the world isolation of the state, and you know what we were meant to do even to bomb). Probably this law would have experienced alterations and additions before if that historical distance hadn't been against us. They'd follow me to Europe, but how do we follow her when she condemns us to hell? First, it dismembers us into simple factors, and then artificially puts us together. That's hard. Today, yesterday and tomorrow our government is not here to follow these laws that are on the agenda. She's everywhere in the world, in Europe, in America, and who knows where, maybe even in some town or village. The Prime Minister received a small bamboo from Germany as a reward for his historic tasks. Yesterday he was at the Social Democrats Congress, and he didn't come to our assembly. What he needs is all these laws and all these amendments, since it's all been seen. Other DOS leaders received awards, such as the East and West award, the "reward for courage" and so on. The Prime Minister is better off sitting in the Assembly than chasing the leaders of their parties around the party's premises, making up Monica Levinski's syndrome. If they were with us in the congregation, they probably wouldn't have that kind of thing happening to them. There, and that's power. This bill will not be able to focus a certain amount on workers' hands and thus do not reduce the basis for pension and IG security to be greater.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5732	The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic, followed by MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5733	The Honorable Presidency, esteemed fellow MPs, distinguished ministers, for the second time in the day, is before you again your colleague from southern Serbia, and for my Leskovcians, their Lesnjak. Addressing you, honourable fellow MPs, who do not want to listen to us socialists because for what reasons you created the belief that we Socialists only appear to obstruct the work of this largest people's home, as on Tuesday a fellow MP from the right eighth row is sitting, I think he is here at this very moment, publicly speaking from this pay phone, and I assure you once again that this is certainly not the case when it comes to me, nor when it comes to the whole parliamentary group of Socialists. So, speaking to you, I'm primarily asking these Leskovcians of mine, the Vlastotins, the Lebaneses, the Gredels, the Bučjans and the Majors to listen to me, and for you colleagues in the O.R. as well as last time, I have one question. Say, in Leskovec, when mother gives two apples to children, it's said, she gave mother to two children one apple at a time. You who are so smart, my colleagues from DOS, think about it, so when I finish this exhibit that is nebulosis for you, tell me how in the right Serbian, Belgrade language, the Belgrade dialect, you can say it, and I'll tell you in the end. Dear colleagues and colleagues, while I present some of my principled objections to amendments to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, which is an obstruction for most of you, you are dealing with it, but this legislative proposal that we are now considering is one from the law package, as you say, and in my opinion, it is not from the law package. Because a package of laws will be at a future normal time when two or three laws are found in a congregation meeting in one area, and when twenty legislative proposals are found in front of us, then, dear colleagues, this is not a bill but a Serbian and a people's bag, one deep bag of legislation containing 20 legislative proposals. And this is one legal proposal from that bag you offered us, and its contents are visible only when we untie and untangle that bag. What will my poor textiles be able to see in this bill, which we are just considering? If we know that a bunch of dyke textiles since the beginning of this year, except for "Vučjanka", "Exportex," and now "Inkola", he hasn't even received full hot meals. Where will they be found by adopting this law? Surely, respected colleagues, in a non-refundable ambience, when we know that he has been reprogrammed into the Trust of Disability and Pension Insurance for several previous years by 2002. They didn't have anywhere to pay. They certainly understand where they are under this law, because its adoption will automatically prohibit them from working for the next three months, from one day in July of the month or August, and exactly according to the criminal provisions of this law. While the government is creating a situation to close the textiles, when it comes to only this segment of aid to the Jablani County textiles, the previous government has helped textiles of the wood-based base by reducing the number of employees by 1,200 workers, which is 600 based on 24 personal incomes, and 600 through agricultural employment. The last government's programme gave Leskovec textiles 17 million crafts and three and a half million German marks, for the purchase of raw materials and repromaterials. What does this law offer to those who haven't even received hot meals? The new bill, the basis on which pension and disability insurance is paid, amounts to 1,704 dinars in April. That's the exact amount. For unskilled workers, it increases to 3,033 dinars, for medium professional preparation, the April basis of 2,652 dinars increases to 5,262, for high professional equipment, the April basis of 4,712 dinars increases to 9,409 dinars. With this high base growth of about 100%, with a 32% retention rate left by the law until further notice in article 12 of the new law and in article 150 of the old, it means that separations will be twice as high. It is true, in the light of the law, that there should be a reduction in the contribution rate by the funds for disability and pension insurance, as if on June 1st, who knows when, and not only by 20 days from the entry into force of this legislative proposal. So respected my voters, I can say with certainty once we've untied this bag of legislation, where the Bill of Pension and Disabilities Insurance only shows that from 1 June of this year, for all the structures of employees, the allocations for disability and pension insurance will increase by 100%. If we consider that the Jablani County has 70,000 insurance and 33,000 pensioners, that average education is something beneath high school, that means that, on this basis alone, employees from our district should allocate 120 million dinars per month. The textiles that are in base 4,000, they need to extract 7 million dinars a month. I'm telling you, when Leskovci textiles had this money, they'd all get married again. This is done by respected ministers, and with everything he's done so far by a new textile expert who's managed by one of the DOS MPs, who sits in this room and everything he's done, surely and what he's going to do, it's certainly not going to help the textiles. I know I do, and you know that this law from the point of view of pensioners and their fund is ideal, but from the point of view of employees at the moment, it's a disaster, especially from the point of view of employers when it comes to private people. During the debate, in item 12, that is, on item 12, the president of the DOS parliamentary group said the DOS only adopts laws that can be implemented. I also think that the proposer of this law is certain that this law has no chance of being consistently implemented because of the financial impotence of many companies, from large to smallest, but also private employers in the first place. The now respected fellow MPs, the "mother of two apples" and so on, can only be said in the Greeding Language, in the wooding jargon that has the proposal at the end. If the proposer of this law is counting on a reduction in rates and contributions, along with these basics, he could also propose a level of reduction in the rate to be adopted by the relevant fund bodies, since the rates are not determined by this law. Therefore, my dear Wooden, red button against the adoption of this bill, must press your MP, Lesnjak, because he thinks of his Jablani County and all those employed in southern Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5734	The word has a folk MP, Mr Nebojsa Jovic, and the next MP is Mr Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5735	Dear MPs, I was encouraged by the reasoning of the law of the minister who said this was a very simple task to explain the draft law on amendments to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. It is a simple task to propose new basis for tax and contribution accounting, however, I ask the question - how difficult it will be to apply this application in this new Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, in practice. You're proposing new basics, these are gross basics -- the gross bases they're entering, as many times as we've said here, a warm meal, a regress for an annual vacation, a field supplement. However, I express my dissatisfaction with the package of these laws, when considering the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance and the Law on Amendments to the Health Insurance Act, why the Law on Amendments to the Social Insurance Act, where we would also be offered a rate of contribution to pension insurance, health insurance and unemployment insurance. I think about the package of those three laws, we can give the real court what these laws are, whether there's a discharge in the economy or not. I am obliged to comment on this law as it has been delivered to us by the MPs. That's why I'm going to do a comparative review and a comparative analysis of the data that you've given based on the new basis and on the basis that was in force in the current law. In the current law, net earnings were the basis for tax and contribution. These net earnings, i.e. the basis of net earnings, were multiplied by a coefficient to reach a gross base, on which to apply taxes and contributions. In the current conditions, in the current law, this coefficient for the redistribution of net on a gross basis is 1,362.397.82, you have thus proposed here, and you who delivered this law should have considered whether this, simplest work, for the basis, is 470 dinars or is 1,600 dinars. If you had delivered that base to 1,600 dinars, I would have done such an analysis here, however, I was forced to carry out an analysis of how you gave the law's conceit. I'll do an analysis just for the simplest work and for the eighth degree of expertise, where the highest degree of professional training is required, it's a doctorate. When we multiply 470 dinars by the coefficient I just said, we come up with a gross base of 640.33 dinars. If the current rates of contributions for pension and disability insurance are 16%, for health insurance 9.60, and for unemployment 0.9, we really come up with data that the burden on new bases is really huge. According to the old foundations, pension and disability insurance would be 102.45 dinars, and on the new basis 3,033,475.28 dinars, which is 473,66%. I apologize for conducting such an analysis, but you delivered this, if you were wrong, then you should bear the consequences. Health - based on 640 would be 61.47 dinars, and on the new basis 3,033,291,16 dinars and 5.76 unemployment on old bases, and now 27.29 dinars. There's still a drastic difference in the eighth degree where 2,300 new dinars have been recalculated, and when we multiply by the coefficient I mentioned earlier, we get to the base of 3,133 dinars. I think it's the ratio of applying the current rates to that amount and to the amount of 12,000 dinars and it's really about 400 and some percent. So you can't claim like you said, if you cut the gross base 50%, that it would be less than the net profit. You suggest that the base cannot be higher than five times the amount, and I accept that, and the lowest basis, that you will determine how monthly earnings are raised per unemployed in the last three months. However, what is terrible about all the laws, and by adopting the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act, there must be a change in how social security is financed. Terriblely, as in all laws, it is that by the 30th of the month, if taxes and contributions are not paid, that the competent paying service will inform the tax authority which is required to inform the competent tax authority within eight days of the date of receipt of the notice, the tax and the contributions, as I said last time, that solution does not retain the execution and will arrive at the blockade of the jury account, until the end of the work to the firm and everything else. In the current law, and you here say that in the system of financing pension and disability insurance, the principle of paid earnings remains. In the current Law, taxes and contributions have been accounted for on what has been found to be paid to workers, and here you are building on the lowest basis for paying contributions according to the degree of expertise, and you are bound by the team if by the 30th of the month you do not pay taxes and contribute to the competent tax authority of the accounting. So, no, it's not the principle of paid earnings. The profits are not paid, and taxes and contributions are accounted for and whether the employer himself will account or you will inform the tax authorities, it really is not that important at this point. I think just because I started my presentation, I think the application of this law is really hard. I'm going to have to look back at the space I'm coming from, and I think that so low-accumulated branches, like textiles, metal industry and wood industry, this won't hold. These three leading companies, i.e. among the leading companies in Kursumlia, employ 2,500 workers. The bullet is a small place, with families of four, coming from 10,000 people, and if all the companies close down, we'll all have to go to Belgrade. We love Belgrade as the capital, but we wouldn't want to come here and live. Why are you not, and the law says nicely, that the minister in charge of work, social security, social security, the minister in charge of health affairs, prescribes the agreed way and content of the billing and payment of contributions as well as the content of the form. I think if you really think that this law will come into force from the 1st of June, I think it's about time you did. Be assured that with such gross bases, so let them make up those warm meal, field supplement and everything else, the inflow of funds into the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund will be smaller, and you will finally claim it. In conditions like this, the economy, be sure, it won't be able to handle this. I think in that sense everyone, as counterpart Dragan Jovanovic said last time, should come out here and say what fate awaits the county or place where it comes from, because I think, from the economy, we all live here too, if there is no economy, we will have no reason to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5736	The word has Social Affairs Minister Mrs. Gordana Matkovic as the author of the act.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5737	I would just like to say one more time, since it is obviously not clear, and many of you are coming back or at least going back (to the firm) after the session of the Assembly. So this review of the base that was given here, it's the previous law. We didn't explain him. We just pointed out what changes in the previous law, since the absolute figures have been established under the previous law, and then said that it is in line with the three-month change in the trend towards profit, so these absolute figures today, of course after so much time, cannot be valid, as these absolute figures that we bring today will not be valid, but will be aligned, we hope, with the increase in wages. So these 400 dinars are not for the level of science doctors first, but according to what it says here is for the lowest level of qualified work, and the second one today is, as your colleague said, 1,700 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5738	As a representative of the parliamentary group, here you go, Mr. Vukic, second call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5739	I wanted not to take too much time just to point out something that is different and something where the minister is wrong. It is true that there is a revaluation according to certain criteria and that it is no longer 470, but 1.660. It is true that it is not 950 in the third position, but 2,500, but it is also something else that we have tried to talk about here, and it seems to me that the parliamentary majority above all, or I'm almost sure of it, didn't want to hear it. Namely, the difference between net and gross wages and basics, when you have a warm meal or a regression, everything that would come into gross pay, it's always the same, it doesn't increase relatively different incomes. So if you have this one with one qualification and someone with higher qualifications, this one will have twice the amount of a warm meal. He won't. It's going to have the same, and you're increasing in such a way proportionally that 2,500 to 5,200 is the same net ratio to gross ratio as this one from 1,600 to 3,000. It can't be the same. Here's 2,600, and here's 1,500 differences. That's the point, that's what we pointed to. And one more thing, you've noticed that the legal text that lists the numbers 470, 800, 950, 1,200, 1,300, 1,700, and so on. It's actually a variable category, and it's true that this is also a new variable category, but then we have to compare them. Just these 470 with these 3,033 dinars, of course under certain conditions. What conditions were there then to see how this could work, but it's particularly interesting what it looks like in jobs that require expertise that is acquired through college education or doctorate, and so on. There's a huge disproportion in the net pay, basically that's how it's calculated and in the one that's gross pay. What's a warm meal of 6,000 dinars? What is the difference between 5 or 6 thousand dinars, which is quite clear, even by your calculations must be at least that much, and here is about 1,500 dinars, which could be relatively acceptable and say that the basis for the calculation is not significantly increased. It is somewhat, but it is not significantly increased, but for every degree of expertise more as a kind of arithmetic progression increased that base and it seems to me a fundamental difference compared to what we had in the previous Law. I think that's the point of what, I think that's the point they wanted to point out to all my predecessors.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5740	The word has Mr. Ivkovic, as president of the parliamentary group, the first call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5741	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, is about the following, with your proposal for a law in the area of pension and disability insurance, the fact has been completed by the circle of those who are worse. First, the Labour Relations Act and the Employment Act are up to the employees. I called your fellow minister to come out here and say he was telling the truth when he said there were no difficult circumstances for the employees. He didn't go out for a pay phone, but we found out and 50 of us repeated that the severances in the Labour Relations Act or guarantees from the Republic Labour Market Fund are less than they would normally be according to old legal solutions. So, on the one hand, we have employees who now, after 30 years of work, will have security in receiving financial support until they go (in some way) into retirement, until they are hired elsewhere and we have those who work for 25 years and only two years after that will have security, so they're worse off. On the other hand, you're introducing and you're right, it's no longer 470 dinars but it would be revorisation of 1,700 dinars of net personal income and you now have gross personal income of 3,033 dinars. However, what has been introduced by this law? With this law, you introduced that the employer is obliged to fulfil his obligations towards pension and disability insurance, based on 3,033 dinars, even though he did not pay any personal income. At the same time, you didn't say, but we do know that, according to the old law and old solutions, there was the possibility that your fellow resolution minister, so today everyone, 50%, has been released, primarily a textile complex and all those complexes in the economic branches that are in a difficult situation. What kind of social miles do we get? We get an employer who is obliged to first fulfil pension and disability insurance obligations, even if he doesn't pay any personal income to the employees, and on the other hand, you made it easier for him to start firing workers, because simple severances under the Labour Relations Act are far lower than they would have been after 10, 20, 30 years, than they were under the earlier Law. What will be the end? There will be an end that happens at the National Bank of Yugoslavia. In the National Bank of Yugoslavia, Governor Mladjan Dinkic, I have already said, has set a famous test for highly skilled staff, intellectuals, with a question of what a cloned sheep is and fired 450 people and violated Article 26(1). The labour law. Why is he doing this, gentlemen, you who are yelling, we heard, because he realized that for the National Bank of Yugoslavia it was better to fire, less severance, clear up with people and not have to pay you by your law, Madam Minister, to pay on the basis of 3,033 dinars and clear the deal. What's between them and single mothers who haven't solved a lot of life issues yet, that doesn't matter. So, we simply use the solutions given by the Minister for Labour and Employment, and you as Minister, we go to a situation where it's extremely difficult for employees, and even worse for employers who are prevented from correctly calculating gross personal income. We told Minister Djelic that we agree with the idea but we believe that this should be triggered when the economy stands on healthy feet, that it should start from 1 July 2002 or 31 December 2002, when the economy catches a certain momentum, when it comes to capital and not today. So, today you taxed him a hot meal, a stamp, a field supplement, a regress, you made gross personal earnings, and now you said - the employer has to pay the contributions and pay what happens. So, what's the end going to be? At the same time, by means of the Labour Relations Act, the Employment Act, you led them to go into labor layoffs. If we add that to the privatisation process, add a private-capital employer, then we can say that it will be very difficult for those who start getting fired mass. And that's the end of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5742	The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5743	The Honorable Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, although this bill is very short, I would point out and point out several important remarks and give some suggestions and also point to certain preferences that should not happen when any law is made and especially not the law in this area. First of all, I think these bases are really too high. These basics with 3,033,00 for unskilled workers up to 12.00 for doctors sciences are high and they will certainly cause major disturbances in large collectives, which have a large number of employees, who will come in a very awkward position, but also when it comes to private entrepreneurs. Of course, private entrepreneurs will handle it more easily because they will simply fire all those surpluses they can't pay, which have not been surpluses so far. They in some previous time, in the time of our government, have often reported as unskilled workers graduate lawyers, graduate economists, engineers, but now under the conditions of one more rigorous control they will certainly be forced to pay taxes and pay taxes, fire and those people will be out of a job. Although we know that some major changes cannot occur, and we have already passed a previous law, we always want to point to these crucial gaps in each legislative project. Furthermore, the view that the basis of St. 1 of this article cannot be higher than the average monthly average earnings per employee in the Republic, I do not think it should stand. There is simply no need to limit anything, because that restriction is not in line with some principles of solidarity, but rather, the intervention of those who have less and less grips with those who have more. Here we come to the following position, which is very important, and it refers to the lowest basis, which is determined three months after making a profit, by employed in the Republic, and I've already talked about this past employment law, that it's much fairer that we do this compliance with average earnings per municipality employee. Why? They are simply not the same salaries in a municipality like Rekovac or Batocina and municipalities such as Pančevo and Belgrade. Although these solutions were both in the previous period and contained in previous laws, we now need to go with new legal projects, with new solutions, which will represent some improvement. It's just that this is the kind of proposal that states take equally from the poor and from the rich. That should be eliminated. And if we had different examples, they show child support. When we talk about children's contributions to the states, it's very selective. The municipalities with smaller salaries have fewer children's supplements, although we have a limit of up to 70%, and the municipalities that are richer have larger children's supplements, although we have a limit of up to plus 10%. In any case, these are reasonable proposals and should be incorporated into the proposal for this law. When we talk about Article 125g, even though I don't understand what "g" means, where financial discipline is potential through payment traffic and tax administration, it's good to have it improved, but we need to know that all funds, including the PIO Fund, cannot be properly charged with only financial discipline, but above all by strengthening, starting consolidation and improving production. And, in Article 10, when I was just talking about certain arbitraryities, I was thinking of this particular member, who says, "According to the fine for the violation of point 1 of point 4 of Article 1 of this member of the employer referred to in Article 1 and 2 of this article, it is possible to impose a ban on the performance of 30 to 90 days." What does it mean? Who's going to decide? To whom shall the decree be, and to whom shall the sea be? If we've already gone with one of these solutions, then it's necessary to replace this word with a word - the sea. If this is how we define it. So these are some of our essential remarks relating to the height of these bases that are certainly too large, to limit the five-fold average monthly earnings, for the lowest bases that are aligned with the republican average, and we think they should be at municipal averages and on this Article 125 and Article 10. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5744	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5745	This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act states that the basis set out in Article 1(1) of this Article may be higher than the five-fold average monthly earnings per employed in the Republic, according to the latest published data by the Republic's statistical authority. Here we will come to an absurd situation, that one who earns a little money will have to earn another 67 bucks in order to cover the income tax, social contributions from gross earnings and social contributions to the employer's burden and the tax on the fund and one who earns a lot, personally, will be in a position to pay only 27 money for someone else. It's absurd, because if you keep saying that whoever makes more money needs more and then this is how it's set up in this law won't be good. Because, just for example, it means everything that's up to a five-time profit is going to be on a 67-dollar dinar, and then it's going to go down to 47 pairs, to less, and then in one variant it's going to come to just 27 pairs. If there's talk of some solidarity all the time, if we're here and in the earlier laws when the government skipped and then gave itself an autogol and prescribed a solid residential building again, and we're always talking about some solidarity, then it would make a lot of sense for one who makes more money to get more and more burdened. Because if again in a package of laws that we discussed at the Assembly session we talked about that those municipalities that have more and those who vomit taxes towards municipalities and cities where they work better, that they are taken even more and left too little, that they are limited to getting no more, then we come to an absurd situation where whoever makes enormous money for our opportunities is paying very little to society, and whoever earns that he is barely alive, it is because he has learned to tear his skin off his back. Also, like in some other legal acts, everything has to be paid to the state, and to the worker, if you share the salary, you've shared, and if you don't share, it's not that big a deal, it's not that important. Also, Article 4 states, among other things: "The Minister responsible for Social Affairs, the Minister responsible for Labour and the Minister responsible for Health Affairs, agree on the way of accounting and payment of contributions, as well as the content of the form referred to in Article 1", I would pray, given that for these some I do not know, but this minister, who has already prescribed certain forms of wages in public enterprises, and has not quite been celebrated, I would only like to say, when patterns are prescribed, to have only one feature, which is that they can be implemented in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5746	The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5747	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the National Assembly. So far, the Minister of Social Affairs, Mrs Matkovic, has defended the proposed law in the shortest manner possible and inconclusive, without strong arguments. I am sure that with such a social policy and such a pale and weak argument the DOS would not gain the confidence of the citizens of Serbia, especially not the trust of the pensioners. The promoter says the law does not change essentially, but changes the basics, and most of the arguments are exhausted, spent in previous discussions. Now they're counting gross wages. Will all of this have an impact on improving the material position of pensioners? What I am convinced of is that pensions will not increase, or at least not to what extent, to guarantee the improvement of life and the safer existence of the socially endangered layers of society. Not only will the pensioner's position not be improved, but the real danger of a tendency to worsen the pensioner's position. The fact is that prices of all types of goods have been increased, living costs have been increased, an economy that should enable pensioners to have a stable pension fund, is in collapse. There is no improvement in any sphere, and unfortunately, it is not written well to the pensioners. The proposed law will not bring about a better life, which, as a pre-election promise, has exploited an international and non-national DOS coalition. The promised changes will not arrive, and unfortunately, besides all other layers of society, the most expensive price will be paid by those who expect much in the coming period, and these are pensioners. It was easy for DOS to fool people with false and unrealistic promises in a pre-election campaign, deception. However, the harsh reality is now taking place. I believe that this government of Zoran Djindjic will fall precisely for the failed social policy and that the government is in a very difficult situation, that it must choose between the policy of issuing Serbian national interest and the servile and subservient service to the West, to get some church girl, or to face very real social unrest. It's very certain, almost certain, that this other thing will happen. We, Serbian radicals, have a moral obligation to tell the truth from the assembly speaker to the citizens of Serbia, and we do it this time. The non-serious government of Zoran Djindjic, the unserious behaviour of the Deputy Prime Minister, unprofessional and immature ministers, and here we have already had affairs in the government. Serbian citizens are witnesses of the infancy of most DOS MPs, whose meetings are unpleasant, unattractive, often do not have quorum, and for one reason only - they are not affected by the peoples. Many of them don't even know what the agenda is, nor do they care. On the principle of automation, they will vote - yes, and thus bring chaos into another very important sphere of society. Is it worth talking to you, in what words do I speak to you to make you understand me? Is it worth talking about the beauty of a mountain spring, a buffalo who can't drink until the water is clouded?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5748	Thank you, that was picturesque. There is a word from MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5749	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, respected members of the government, I think it is indeed justified that several MPs have expressed their opinion that it is a large basis for calculating and paying contributions to disability and pension insurance. Also, several MPs have justifiably indicated that it is illogical that such repressive measures are put forward, that due to the untimely payment of the contribution, the measure of banning the exercise of activity, for a period of 30 to 90 days, can be imposed. What does it mean to close down a company for 90 days, so where does it get to pay for the contributions and the rest? I think this is really repressive and that there should be some kind of change in that direction. There are other instruments and measures - how payment should be done. However, I would especially like to point out and make my remarks to Article 6 of the proposed law, which is actually this new Article 125g, which is proposed. To make it clear what this is about, I'll read this article, as proposed. Namely, "the body responsible for payment services is obliged to notify the competent Republic tax authority of employers who have not made any payments for the previous month by the end of the current month at the latest, or to pay contributions in accordance with Article 125 of this Act". This is the minimum amount that is prescribed, i.e. if it pays more money, this is an increased amount. It's okay, that part is not about the remark. It further states that the notice is delivered to the competent tax authority, according to the employer's seat. The second position: "the competent tax authority shall establish, no later than eight days after receipt of the notice referred to in Article 1, the obligation of the employer to pay a contribution within a specified period". Now, please, first of all, I think it's quite good that it says, "the authority responsible for payment services," so that the concept of transfer of payment traffic to banks is expected, so it's not only saying that the NBJ, or the PDO, but the competent authority, which means whether it's going to be banks, mail and so on, assumes the obligation to notify the tax authority. However, my basic objection to paragraph 2 of this law (and a certain number of MPs pointed out this, and I will be free to comment on it a little bit and beyond) - says: "The competent tax authority is required to establish the obligation of the employer at the latest within eight days of receiving the notice referred to in Article 1 of this Article". Now, there's no explanation there, there's no legal provision -- which is how he determines it, whether an invitation has been made, or if he's going to do it under the General Administrative Procedure Act, then that would be clear. In this way, more or less the discretionary right of the tax authority to value how and how it can treat individual employers differently. First, it is only a clear obligation that within eight days it should establish its obligation. So the assumption is that within eight days he needs to bring the record. It does not stand - which is the time limit, when it adopts the minutes, that the employer may place observations on the minutes, because it is according to the ZUP's basic provision, to determine some time limit. Whether it's three days, whether eight, ten, or fifteen, it's not defined. So, discretionary law of the tax authority. Furthermore, when the remarks come to the record, what is the deadline, within which time does the tax authority need a solution? It can also be five, fifteen and twenty days, so when it comes to a solution within that prescribed time limit, then the basic clause should stand - when the solution becomes executive. It's discretion again, can it be fifteen days, eight, thirty or ninety days? What will be handled by the tax authority? Will it have the influence of family ties, friendly relationships, party ties, not to say, whether or not there can be drawn after and bribes, and corruption etc.? I think this is underexplained, and I really think that the government in this part should put in certain clarifications, so that tomorrow we don't have any problems in applying this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5750	The word has a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic. The word has a People's MP Bozidar Vucurovic, followed by Dragan Tomic, so if we have time...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5752	This bill is said by a fellow MP from Leskovec Lesnjak, from a bag of labour law and social policy, and some say it's not from a bag but from a box of Pandora's boxes. In order for the law to be applied, there must be a realistic possibility for the employer to respond to the requirements of this law, to provide funds to pay contributions to insurance companies, to ensure both production and its realisation, and to provide from the realization of production the means to pay both workers and contributions, and not only to social and health contributions, but to all contributions that come from working relationships and which are approximately according to applicable legal regulations somewhere on the basis of which the contribution is calculated and paid. The explanation that the difference that occurred when you edit the basics, the difference between that and the gross salary, simply doesn't stand. It doesn't stand for the next reason, Madam Minister. It doesn't stand because the gross salary consists of a former net salary and this part, which is now grossly attached net and has obtained a gross salary, and hence the gross base. Net salary is a variable category. It depends on the professional training, the job, the working conditions and everything else. This second part that's being added is constant. It is the same for one who has a primary school, as a minister of work and for you who have a college, as a minister. So if the base is, if the net salary is 1,700 dinars for the lowest level of qualification and gross 3,033 dinars, that part of the hot meal, the regress, the transport, the separate life, the living room and the rest is about 1,500 dinars to the top of the head to say. So 1700 and 1,500, that's 3,000, but it's the same for the second category for both the third and the fourth and the fifth and the sixth and the seventh. So the basics that require expertise, which is acquired by college or higher education, the net salary was 4,500 dinars plus 1,500 bases, cannot exceed 6,000 dinars. For a doctorate, we can't cross 7,500 dinars yet. We haven't come down to the 70% we're promised. Then it'll be different. At this point, it is practically the basis for tax and tax collection and contributes to what needs to be singled out and there are minors in the 100% amount. The base of 12,000 implies a salary of little less than 12,000 dinars. The second thing, this law must be brought into line with the budget, because it is absolutely out of line with those revenues that are provided or should be provided for individual ministries, which finance certain public services. In the morning, I was talking about this illogicality in low and higher education. The example shows that the budget envisions around 2,300,000 dinars for salaries and contributions from university teaching staff and university workers, and I calculated that 2,300,000 dinars must be allocated only for contributions. Pay, so there's no pay. It's the same for your education. Education will pay contributions, since people there are academically educated on the basis of contributions and taxes, based on 9,000 and slightly more dinars. It's the government and the union's agreement that the salary of educators will be 4,700. About last month there were 4,500 dinars. And taxes and contributions are paid based on 9,000. What's going on? It will happen that neither the government will be able to meet its commitments to beneficiaries of the budget. (President: Time. ) Which then the minister, the labour inspector, will close the government for 90 days or close the Ministry of Education for 90 days, because it has not paid for the coats and contributions to the educators. During the 90 days that the company doesn't work, as long as the school doesn't work, the school won't shut down because the educators didn't get paid. (Kedomir Jovanovic from town: Who is the employer? Government. The government won't close for sure. Who, then, and in what way, will provide that money to which these contributions should be paid, whether workers receive salaries or not, and will not receive them, because today they are particularly in private companies in response to this law, doing mass layoffs of workers. And think about the criminal provisions, and think about the basics of tax and contribution, including this contribution, because I'm telling you that part of the constant is for everyone from primary school to college. They're all driving the same ride and they all have the same regress for their vacation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5753	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5754	Honorable MPs, time. Time's up? They say the DOS has run out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5755	I said the technique failed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5756	It's all right. Thank you very much. (Nenad Bodanovic from the place: we are not them or these. I apologize to Bogdanovic, if you consider yourself personally injured. When it comes to this subject, I have to say that, in the light of this legal solution, it came back from the affirmation of the principle of gross earnings. In earlier discussions on these legal solutions, we have pointed to several important differences when it comes to the affirmation of the principle of gross earnings. It can only make sense in branches where the averages are above the republican average and it will mean reducing the contribution to PIO. However, when we enter those branches such as the textile industry, construction, meditative complexes and so on, where the averages were lower than the republican average, we come to the point that both a warm meal and a regress and a field supplement presented in themselves a target social factor, which kept the social peace in these enterprises, allowed workers to come to work on time and simply receive a part of the profits, and presented to the companies a valve so that they could give part of the funds allocated to social funds to invest in the production process. Today, we have a general decline in production in Serbia. Mr. Jovanovic, I guarantee you it's true. For the first quarter of last year, production was lower by 30% compared to last year's production in January, February and March. Therefore, a part of the economy has been standing for a long time and cannot be initiated at all. I have to say, when we get back to the lowest base of 3,033 dinars now, I just don't know where it's gonna pay off. We obviously cannot see that this base of 470 dinars in some areas and in some companies was quite high and that it itself guaranteed some kind of social peace in the company. It was 470, on the other hand it was also 470 commitments to the state, and with that we kept some peace, plus the extras we gave for a warm meal, a regression and other fees. Even in those areas, one part of the economy had the right to address the Ministry of Trade, where discounts were granted to pay for social contributions compared to 50%. No one wanted to do it that way, but it's clear that for many years we've been in sanctions, that we've had a general decline in production. This serious recession in the world has led some branches of the economy to really find themselves in that place. However, this legislative solution will not achieve this goal. There's going to be something quite the other way around. It will be achieved that the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund gets significantly less money than is really expected, that this rate cannot be monitored in this area for pension payments either. Of course, it did not fall into the essence, which is a serious reform of pension and health insurance. This serious reform had to contain a whole new law, which would cover several real elements that would help make this area more comprehensive and better resolved. First, you cannot expect something more serious to be done in this area as long as there is such a way of administration as it has been so far. It cannot be expected that the tax authority, to which everything is being settled in this situation and all other administrative authorities, is expected from a tax administration where no serious reform has been carried out, that alone with this number of employees, with the number of executives in the control service, assumes a complete economy, looks at the situation in this area, brings correct measures, cannot be expected to be the undertaker of certain enterprises. There was no revision of the Law on Personal Labour, nothing was done in the area of district economic courts. We are still working under the Law on bankruptcy and liquidation from 10 to 15 years ago, and we are in great form of working bankruptcy by this law, extremely restrictively bringing a ban on performance up to 90 days. This measure has its weight, which is just amazing. It means locking down businesses, failing to produce, simply, the lack of conditions to pay off contributions for employees. I don't know what the objective of this measure is, but definitely, in the existing legislation, the measures that were envisaged were quite enough to regulate this area. I have to look back at something that came to mind, say, the average income in the field of education is... You'd better listen to what I'm saying without being so vulgar. Mr. President, please don't get it. It really doesn't make sense. You're probably in a hurry home. In the end, let me say, when it comes to, say, the education that you've been talking about, talking and talking about, saying that you're gonna pay, that you're gonna give this, that you're gonna give it. I'm asking you now, the lowest expert in education is higher, that is, the sixth degree, the seventh degree, the university eight, where the basics are foreseen from 6,000 to 12,700, how will we and who will provide the funds for the payment of social contributions in this area, from which income, from which production, and from which we are constantly watering ourselves with some political pamphlets and needs -- we are going to do this, we are going to do that? There's no money if we keep this level. Also, I think if we want to be fair to the end, we can't have a border factor at 12,724 dinars for those companies operating at European level. There's one more thing I want to say in the end, these days I've had conversations with a number of private workers, who have between 50 and 200 employees. What they're going to do, I'm definitely sure, will reach out to the firing rate of a number of employees. For the simple reason, they simply will not be able to pay contributions to the lowest basis, that is, as foreseen under this plan. Of course, they'll be able to re-establish one abuse by firing, out of 50, firing 30, opening up a new company, reporting them to a new firm and withdrawing funds from the fund. You can't see the control function of the law here, how to prevent that kind of abuse. I have to say, when we talk about these laws, it's really amazing how much you don't care, how much you don't want to hear the arguments of the other side and how much you don't have to think about this together. No one should be collecting political points here. This is too serious a time, too serious an area, it seems to me to be one of the key areas in which we are in the functioning of the state, I think, one of the most important areas, how we're going to get out by the end of this year. Therefore, I think that the amendments, which have been passed in these few laws and these solutions that we have been offering, made absolutely sense and made no sense of how and how you follow this debate that we are now talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-08-0.u5757	Ladies and gentlemen, that's what we did today. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session today is attended by 131 MPs. To determine the quorum, please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Ljubisa Djokovic, Mihajl Markovic, Željko Tomic, Ratimir Svirčević, Milan Radulovic, Dusan Budišin, Stanko Kovacevic, Nebojsa Lekovic, Srdjan Petrovic, Dusan Proroković, Slavoljub Matic, Živica Predojev, Višnja Nežić, Jakov Stamenković, Nedi Arnerić and Nadi Kolundžija, in the morning of Branko Pavlovic and Vladan Jovic. The delay was announced by Cedomir Jovanovic. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been called: the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Before continuing to work on the 14th item of the agenda, I would like to inform you that yesterday I received a measure of distance from the National Assembly's parliamentary group of Serbian Radical Party. This proposal for a decision cannot be included in the agenda, as the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure may only change the agenda during the sitting on a reasoned proposal from the Government and in specific cases relevant to the defence and security of the country, etc. And otherwise, it makes no sense to include this in the agenda of the next session, because it is, in essence, an objection that a measure of distance from the session has been violated by the President of the Assembly and that, in the absence of a political explanation, there has been an abuse of the parliamentary majority, if I may say so, in the free interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, in determining the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Because of the extent to which the president of a parliamentary group is away from the session and that there is no doubt and doubt about it in the notes that perhaps 50 years from now some historian will study with great torment, surely, I would also suggest that we treat this as an objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I give my word to Mr Nikolic, that we may once again hear the explanation and that this is the matter of the Assembly. In another way, we cannot decide on this, but rather treat it as an objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
