ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16169	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of this session, there was a severe violation of the Rules of Procedure through which the SRS parliamentary group cannot cross without pointing to it. Namely, Article 86. The Rules of Procedure provide for the session's agenda to be determined by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and only a draft agenda is submitted in the meeting of the National Assembly. On 30 October, the SRS parliamentary group submitted a request for the establishment of a survey committee to determine the facts related to the failure of the Jugoscan firm, and on 1 November, it complemented the request for the establishment of an investigative committee to be carried out by an emergency procedure. That request is pursuant to Article 86. The request had to be decided, true without a search, but the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia had to decide at the beginning of this session on the request of the SRS parliamentary group to put the item on the agenda by emergency procedure. We know what the fate of this point would be, but it is a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has not granted one legitimate request for another minute, as long as it is necessary for the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine whether our request will be included in the agenda by emergency procedure or not. We were also deprived of this most fundamental parliamentary right - that the request we make to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, be put to the vote, or at the mercy and will of the parliamentary majority. I mean, Mrs. Micic, if you had gone off to a very bad start to do the job of the president of the National Assembly by injuring the Rules of Procedures that would be unimaginable in a democratic country and in a democratic assembly, as you present this to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16170	Thank you. I mean, Mr. Nikolic, if you'd done the same bad thing as the deputy SRS parliamentary group, because this objection, which is really in place, should have been put at the beginning of the session, that is, when we set the agenda, and then we would have come to your meeting and I would have put your proposal to the vote. Now, we are not procedurally able because the agenda has already been established. I will ask the secretary to provide us with a written explanation, both for you and for me, which is why it is not included in the agenda. It will be included in the next session, as it is now procedurally not possible. In addition, you already had one proposal to put the Kosovo state resolution on the agenda, and then you should have pointed out the objection - why this is not included in the agenda. I think that's the basic reason you sent two acts. In the first, you did not ask for an emergency call, so you asked for it later, and there was likely a failure of the service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If you're not satisfied - should I put it to a vote? I am putting to vote the violation of the Rules of Procedure by MP Tomislav Nikolic. For 53, against 91, abstentions 6, they did not vote 24, a total of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision that no breach of the Rules of Procedure has been committed. The Board of Justice and Administration, within the meaning of Article 159(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision to suspend the duties of the President of the General Court, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 December 2001, should be considered within the fifth item of the agenda of this session. I would like to put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Justice and Administration to consider, following an urgent procedure under the fifth item of the agenda, a motion for a decision on the termination of the duties of the President of the General Court. For 124, against 46, the abstentions were not voted by 6, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Board of Justice and Administration, within the meaning of Article 159(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, he proposed that the draft decision on the election of a republican public prosecutor, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 December 2001, be considered following an urgent procedure within the 5th item of the agenda. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Justice and Administration and ask the Members of Parliament to declare themselves by voting. For 124, against 40, a abstentioned one, did not vote 11 out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002. THE 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment, and the amendment will be explained by MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16171	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Amendment No. 6 speaks of agriculture. I don't think the Agriculture Committee has taken a good look at this amendment. In fact, I propose an increase of 6 billion 300 million, as planned for the subsidy of agriculture (a billion from the water industry, and that means 7 billion 300 million) to 9 billion, so that 8 billion are planned for the subsidy and billions for the water industry. I'm not asking for a budget increase, I'm asking for a redistribution in the budget of what to do with a billion and seven hundred million. I think the most important thing, as the Prime Minister said, is that we have a real growth in social standards by 5.5% thanks to a farm that has 28% increase. With this amendment, with this proposal, I'm sure we'd have a lot more. I suggest that the distribution of these pairs be as follows: to regress for breeding cattle, for breeding heifers, bulls, sheep and rams from 183 million (a total of 214,770.000) to 300 million. So, 116 and a few million dinars for this. Milk premium: I must say, this year has been a good one. If this item increased from two billion to six million to three billion, then 400 million dinars more for the milk premium. For the sugar beet, because there are no sugars in the surrounding countries, and what was closed has increased from 680 million to a billion. The next item would be building in a regional irrigation system -- you know how much agricultural good, which has a irrigation system, there's more yields, conditions, even when the set -- where I suggest an increase from 140 million to 317 million, is 170 million for this. And most importantly, what agriculture is proud of, it's for the programme of the use and arrangement of agricultural land. And in this budget, you said yourself, I will read: "The realisation of this programme is the accumulation of land, regulates the water regime, transforms the raw land into arable land, improves the physical, chemical and biological properties of land, creating conditions for more rational use of agricultural machinery, with the possibility of full application of agrotechnical measures, which is a prerequisite for increasing the scope and improving the structure of agricultural production. These programmes are relatively modest and have significant effects on the scope and structure of production." What would these funds be for? That's about 700 million dinars. First, in the fight against weeds, corn gold, cheese, all weeds, cereals, sugar tail diseases, sunflower disease. I'll give you just one example, in the first year if only 4% of the donations were increased, that's 240 million dinars. If after treatment, where the government would invest money for 2003, we would have significant figures. It has been turned into wheat and is like this: 250,000 tonnes of wheat more than or 25,000 wagons, which is now a billion and 600 million dinars, or 53 million marks, or about 26m euros. In corn, it would look like this, 320,000 tonnes higher, or 32,000 wagons, and that would be about 50 million marks or about 25m euros. The sugar beet would be significantly less, it would be about 65,000 euros. What does it mean to increase this production in the first place? (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. )......................................................................................................... What does it mean for the village and for the whole country? So we get something, we get trust in the village, trust in agriculture, keeping young people in the country, high standards in the country, restoring machinery, regular tax payments, and so on. We don't need any loans, loans, donations. Let's invest in what's most valuable, what we have and what we all live on, and that's that agriculture. Let's help these people, help Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16172	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Here you go. National MP Tomislav Nikolic as representative of the parliamentary group, and then MP Dragan Tomic as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16173	First of all, I am not satisfied that you have put on the vote whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured in the event of the establishment of a polling committee for the company "Jugoscan" and that I am convinced that someone from the top of the government is preventing this affair from obtaining its right to resolve, a team before the statements by Jezimir Vasiljevic made it quite clear that many of those who are now in power at the time when they were in opposition and are therefore threatening him with a new prison. Let's go back to the budget, and let this go back to the history of the parliamentaryism of the Republic of Serbia. Article 6 reads: "The government of the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as the Government), on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture Affairs, prescribes conditions and means of using the funds allocated on behalf of subsidies in agriculture totaling 6 billion and 300 million dinars, for individual purposes. "There are good things and bad things here. It is good that the government knows that it must not listen to the proposal of the Minister responsible for agricultural affairs, but it is bad to think that, by interpreting this article, the minister will make proposals for the use of subsidies in agriculture. And no money can be given to the current Minister of Agriculture. He can't, and I'm due to the finding that very often he comes under the fact of alcohol at the assembly sessions from you, you didn't allow us to determine whether he was drunk or not that day, but now I'm making a second accusation at the expense of the minister. The minister is a man prone to corruption, bribery and crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16174	Mr. Nikolic, for the violation of article 101, and on the basis of article 103, I give you a second warning. Please take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16175	It would be very good if you had read the newspaper by Mrs. Micic, found from the newspaper that the minister's friend and business associate, who he betrayed in the devastation of a huge hunting ground in Vojvodina, committed a mass killing of birds on the territory of Vojvodina. And it's not birds that can kill themselves with guns, but are caught by nets, and later killed and slaughtered, like cattle that people load for the winter. If you had put that on the agenda, we would have found out who puts that poor voice on Serbia's agenda, and the minister would no longer be a minister, but would not be at large. You say 6,300,000 is scheduled for subsidies in agriculture, and we think it should be much more, but you've predicted premiums for milk 2,603,000, you've predicted a regression for cattle 214,770,000, sugar tail premiums 680,000,000, premiums for tobacco 480,000,000 dinars. Given how much you from DOS are racing to open your tobacco factory, you should have looked a little better at this budget and raised the tobacco premiums to at least three billion, because if you make all the plans around your tobacco factories and if they are the factories that the raw materials will get from our fields, then it will take farmers to pay a lot more premiums than you planned in the budget. Only if you plan to pack other people's cigarettes, and especially those with a greeting from Rovinj, then you need general tobacco premiums, and then the traffickers and the traffickers, the moment they enter the government, the hour they don't enter, have an extraordinary extraprofit that will never be taxed because they'll never even be in official channels. Agriculture is not played, and the Minister of Agriculture is a sign that you play with agriculture. The charges against the minister of peasants, charges against the minister of non-scared journalists, are terrible. You're counting on the political party he's leading to has enough influence in Vojvodina to provide you with a few votes so that your government doesn't fall, but just so you know, whoever's bad is bad is just as bad and the one he depends on. You have more ministers who don't deserve to be in the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16176	Time and theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16177	The theme is agriculture, and I'm talking about the Minister of Agriculture you're going to give 6,300,000 in your hands. Mrs. Micic, please follow the shop fabula, as our comedians would say. (Milka Marinkovic: And memory. I have a good memory, as Milka would say. Thank you, Milka. I've got all that in there. So, I am convinced that you will have a debate on how the funds for agriculture are being spent and that in the shifts of ministers that I expect and in the shift of the entire government, surely, the place that Vesenov has taken will be some other, much better, minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16178	Mr. Nikolic, let me tell you again, although the National Assembly has made a decision, only that you remembered earlier, so after three days of the session you remembered that your proposal was not put on the agenda. If you'd done it on your first day of work, in good time, the service error would have been corrected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16179	You hurt the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Micic, because you're telling me that I should do your job and the work of your services. It's not my job to remind you that you're supposed to be holding a session unless I find out that you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. I'm not an official of this National Assembly, I'm not her secretary, I'm not her president, and it's not my place to remind you of what's not on the agenda. I am interested when you miss all deadlines so I can remind you and that it goes into the books that we write about how the new democratic authority runs the sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Don't justify that inaction by keeping quiet that you're hurting the Rules of Procedure. I had reason to feel at that session, and what would be worth, Mrs. Micic, and to warn you. You know very well that requests for ministers' shift are nine months old, that the business term is three to 15 days old. What do you want me to do, humiliate myself, go out for a pay phone, and warn you that the deadlines are over, that you put it on the polls, that the assembly finds most of the deadlines have not passed. Is that your goal? Do you think that will clear your conscience? It says in the Rules of Procedure that you have to ask the Assembly if they're going to put this on the agenda and you don't. Is your conscience washed by his own silence? Is there any way to wash your conscience, Mrs. Micic? Is that money, is that privilege, position, male escort, female escort, official car, apartment, is there any way to wash your conscience, Mrs. Micic, for the way the Assembly is run?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16180	You have not even pointed out which member of the Rules of Procedure you are objecting to, so I am not obliged to answer you, but I remain on my account that you have lost your right because you have not responded in good time. The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic, as representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16181	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, the opposition of the Socialist Party MPs in the principle debate when it came to the definition of funds for agriculture, was that we believe we should have invested more in this area, because you said in the exhibition that the only growth in production was achieved in Serbia's economy for this year was in the area of agriculture and that it was 28%. This growth in production, I think, as well as the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, should have been treated more seriously, especially in the area of agricultural product processors, in the area of agriculture industry, in the processing, in capacities, and this is one of the options where there are conditions for more mass employment in Serbia. Obviously, this budget in that area is restrictive, and we see that it rewards some other positions richly. When you put together the costs of business travel, general contract services, staff education services and specialised services, agriculture on the other hand, it comes somewhere to get 7.400,000 each. Apparently, the treatment of agriculture, which was the only one in this year's profit, is not adequately shown, this government has not invested anything special in the area, except that it is. When a simple host, a citizen makes a calculation at the beginning of his business year, and the real one trusts me, he will again have a high tax debt and in that area the tax rules we spoke of last year remain. Electricity prices, heating, oil, oil derivatives, fertilizer prices, seeds are extremely high and will be even higher because there will be growth, new price growth in the area and expected growth, and you yourself announced that there will be growth in the area. Thus, the calculations of agricultural producers, (here comes Stanko Kovacevic, constantly throwing something at me, I guess he understands, and I thought Stanko understood tourism). We do not consider that an average family household, a household of 10 to 15 hectares, a household exclusively engaged in production, a household created and a household of which we all live. Therefore, our assessment is that here investments should be higher, especially for incentives, but not just on the cost side. So incentives, above all, that agricultural machinery producers can produce more in the area, that processors in the area are better protected, that those who are export-oriented in the area get greater incentives, and that is not in this budget. He is also restrictive in this area, so do not boast that you have invested significantly in this area. This area is once again left to God, rain, sun and the skill of our host to cope next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16182	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 51, against 111, two abstentions, 17 of the 181 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 7th amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment, and the amendment will be explained by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 and it reads: "After the word "legal", instead of a comma, the point should stand, while the words on the schedule "the funds carried out by the Government" are deleted. "Part of the receipt from art. 4th of this law for transfers to other municipalities and cities of 919m dinars, will be allocated, on behalf of additional funds, according to the criteria laid down by the special law adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This law would cover, as you say, the transparent state of business of every municipality or city. I'll give you a picturesque, transparent, state-of-the-art in the Sabbath community. The metal industry is working very hard or not, the sugar company does not work, the fruit and vegetable processing plant does not work, the metal-processing industry was taken over by the president of the Chamber of Commerce, Vesenovic, the owner of the Galeba, because he took funds from the Development Fund, and I talked about it many times in this home. I don't know if it works or not. You shut down the Sabbath bank, created by the Sabbath businessmen, to keep them from doing business and doing business. The Zorka chemical industry worked until you came to power and the crisis headquarters set up a new leadership, which only dreams of selling and the West. Instead of putting together an expert team, together with local authorities, for the realization of the recovery in most companies, it is in fact accessing, together with the local government, the destruction of every production capacity. You've destroyed the village, which is reflected in the Mačvanski district, because you bought their products at the prices that suit you, as is the case with wheat, today it's the case with the purchase of live cattle, which is below any rentability, and you know, and here you're saying, that without villages and peasants there is no survival of the state. Therefore, you can see for yourself that Minister Vesenov should resign himself. Gentlemen, DOS has continued to indoctrination the communist regime, under the password "Today we live hard to be better tomorrow". The draft budget for 2002 is so wasteful, unreal, that some branches are again in a privileged position compared to those produced by the village. Because the funds you provided for agriculture will again go to another side (probably Mr. Covic) or to the realisation of the gray economy. This budget is wasteful, inflatable and quite inextricably done. I suggest that this government resign immediately. Gentlemen, there is no Serbian government here, these gentlemen, in fact, the government, the representation of the government of certain states, because their behavior tells us so. Because they want to turn this country into a protectorate or colony of countries that represent them. Today in Vojvodina, ladies and gentlemen, we have Mr. Chank, who wants to imitate Arafat. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16184	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16185	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, what will you do when the entire budget is in one piece, all expenditures of the budget, and then one parliamentary group can only have one amendment and only two arguments -- one who represents and representatives of the parliamentary group. This is not a relevant budget debate. After such a debate, only a quick budget is passed, and no budget has been reached, which has been discussed, with different views, which will be considered by the one who is now voting, and then somewhere in June, finds that the budget has brought harmful and devastating consequences to the state and the people. As for Article 7, he sublimes so-called. 919m dinar additional funds and says it will be implemented according to the criteria set out in the special law, and the budget schedule is carried out by the government. If the government is just a technical resource allocation service, I can accept that, with the law being capable of predicting complete automation. But I'm interested - and when will the law be passed? There has never been a budget adopted, and as a follow-up, there is no law to determine -- the amount of funds, which is the amount of funds, which percentages of the revenue achieved, are allocated to local self-government units to finance their jobs, entrusted to them by the Republic. When will the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which enters an emergency session on January 1st, decide how will the funds, selected on January 1st, be distributed? When? Or it'll be the government by regulation, until the law is passed. So aren't you fed up with regulations, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, why do you allow an uninterrupted transfer of someone to you as you have reached an instrument which is not recognised by the democratic world, by the rule of law? And even what you're doing here, when you're not going to say a word against the bad proposals, can be justified -- the same majority formed by the Assembly, as a legislative body, the same majority of the government, as an executive body, and what you're going to -- shut up, you have the majority, you vote. One day, I guess it breaks in the election if the country doesn't break first. But now you're depriving yourself of the right to be a legislative organ. You subdued yourself to the executive body that you chose, none of you came out for a pay phone to say -- why are you delivering the budget to us 20 hours before the budget debate? Well, that's a humiliation to you, too. And now, the clear provision of article 7 says you've been trusting the government since January 1st that in a local self-government, in which you're exercising a certain authority, although I don't think it's the government's authority, that the government determines how you're going to go. There's no law on that. You already know how hard you're gonna be for those revenues. Why don't we go in a row, why don't all the accompanying acts be adopted at the same session? Can one without each other, whether a budget without a law that regulates how the budget will be collected and spent. He can't. If the budget is established under the law, budget revenues cannot be made under the regulation, budget expenditure cannot be made under the regulation, they cannot. Otherwise, why do we need a budget bill? Then the government should have passed the budget regulation. Who would knock that down for you? No one, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has since you came to power. Does it not bother you, professors of law school, do you not mind that there is no Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia? Did you maybe create a situation in Serbia under which there is no Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia? And which you are satisfied with and washed your cheek - by being the chairman of the board of directors of large state-owned enterprises. You see, some teachers are obliged even to serve. It's not an honor to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16186	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Please, MP Dragan Tomic, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16187	Gentlemen, the 919 million that are scheduled for municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia, at this point, it is difficult to figure out whether enough funds for entrusted jobs that municipalities and cities in Serbia should accomplish for the state of Serbia. This is what I'm saying, in relation to the growth of funds for this famous commission, as it is called, chaired by Nebojsa Covic, there is a set level of funds, for a total of 29+3 municipalities, 964 million. It's a one-way increase. If we ask the question of resources, whether these funds for this part, means 32 municipalities, including those funds that are being made available by the Serbian Government Regulation through the transport of goods with Kosovo and Metohija, a serious question arises, which is the level of funds that will be raised there for these purposes. Here we have limited funds for 160 municipalities in Serbia that need to carry out entrusted jobs. Whoever does entrusted jobs in municipalities, these are the heads of local offices, home service and all those services that they do in municipalities, say in one municipality of 150 employees, that's at least half of them in trusted jobs. I think in the story of decentralisation in the pursuit of better quality living in municipalities, for better service of citizens, these funds speak the opposite. In addition to the political story, that we, as we want to fix the situation in municipalities, that these municipalities work better for us and that 160 municipalities in Serbia, this 919 million assets absolutely deny it. We expect, since I do not travel in front of me, which is unusual, the law on the financing of municipalities and cities in Serbia, and he comes later as we heard under the law on local self-government, which should be discussed from January 15th and beyond. All municipalities in Serbia are forced to make decisions on temporary financing these days. We've heard, but we haven't seen, people complain, say there's been a significant decrease in participation in sales tax, let's say one of the average municipalities of Sabac, from which I come, where the share in sales tax was 15.3%, and this year it was reduced to only 7%. It's just amazing when we have the environment and the economy that brings that sales tax, which goes to the federal state, to the Republic and to the municipality in which the function is to be realized. It is clear that these funds are used to finance, first of all, the services of the public sector, and let's say to finance the work of pre-school institutions and other public functions entrusted by the state. I must say, it is obvious that the government's policy towards local self-government is even more restrictive. We've been accused of being absolute centralists for a while, of taking everything in one hand and of being ruled that way. This just says the opposite, that at that time there was a greater decentralisation of the local government, when we know that 90% of the municipalities of the local self-government were almost stopped. Investment in the area of solidarity and housing almost does not exist. These facilities that started in the previous period are being completed. I have to say, there are a lot of community presidents here, they've been elected by citizens. Perhaps, gentlemen, no matter what you're in DOS, you should have acted differently. When you return to your municipalities, the citizens will ask you if you can achieve what you need to do with this level of restrictive funding and as proposed at this point. Of course, when we compare this 919 balance to 964 million, I have to say that the modest increase and participation... (President-Time).... in the financing of municipalities and cities. And when it comes to increasing this part where we don't already have a war, everything is said to be peaceful in these three municipalities in southern Serbia, the increase is once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16188	Thank you, is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ). I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 49 against 105, three abstentions, 22 of the 179 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. The amendment will be explained by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 8. The budget law refers to expenditure of the budget for basic purposes. Since this budget is very wasteful, we have proposed, by economic qualifications, one reduction in these items and budget expenditures. So I'll read them to you. The economic classification of 41 employees should be equal to 48,442,754,000 dinars; the economic classification of 411 - wages, remuneration and allowances for employees should cost 38,291,179.000 dinars; the economic classification of 412 - special contributions (the employer) should amount to 7,566,575,000 dinars; the next classification of 42 - the use of goods and services should cost 14.299,950,000 dinars; the classification of 421 - permanent costs should cost 3,476,725,000 dinars. The economic classification of 42 111 - payment traffic, should stand at 100 million dinars; then, the classification of 44 - interest payments, should cost 6,176.000,000 dinars; the classification of 442 - foreign interest payments, is deleted because there is no need to separate these sources in this budget; the classification of 45 - subsidies should cost 20.236.200,000 dinars; the economic classification of 46 - donations and transfers to other levels of government, should cost 54.949.000,000 dinars; the classification of 47 - should cost 20.316.400,000 dinars; the economic classification of 48 - donations to NGOs, should cost 292.000,000 dinars; the economic classification of 49 - other expenditures, should cost a sum of 190.000 dinars; the economic classification of 51 - basic funds, should cost EUR 1,000,000,000. With this, we Serbian radicals tried drastically to cut budget spending because a very wasteful budget was proposed here. What I would particularly refer to here is the payment of foreign interest, for which we have in the budget the amount of 15,612,000,000 dinars, which is when it turns into marks of 520,400,000 German marks. It turns out, and that's what you promised the people a year and a half ago, that you got six billion dollars, that you took that money, and now you have to pay some interest. However, you took that money and probably put it in your private pockets. The secretaries are not divided into the people of Serbia, and here we see that we will return more than 520 million marks, if we take the bill to make the interest at $6 billion that must be paid over a longer period of time. The next thing I'd like to do is point out an economic classification of 45, which is subsidies. The government of the Republic of Serbia, when it is to be taken from Serbian citizens, does not care at all how much citizens can pay. However, when it is due to return it to the citizens of Serbia, it is strictly restrictive. So the subsidies for agriculture, there was a plan for 2001 to be realised with 500,000 dinars, an estimate that would take place somewhere around 4,100,000, which means that one whole billion remained neutral and you didn't know how to invest it in agriculture. There is little reason to be able to place that billion, since we have indications that only agriculture has made one growth and helped this Serbia still has some funds. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, with this subsidy, at the transfer, at the economic classification 46, I would point out that you have passed a regulation that allows the excise goods to go to Kosovo and Metohija without paying the sales tax, without paying the excise duties. (President: Time. I would like to propose to Mr. Minister that those funds that are being raised be given to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, because they live in a very difficult situation. I can let you know that there are no power days, no phones, no life at all is very difficult. Those funds you collect, instead of going into private pockets, go to the mobs dealing with cigarette smuggling. Discuss this and the funds charged by this regulation, which are very large funds, allow these funds to be allocated to Serbs who have remained to live under occupation in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16190	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, a representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16191	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've had a lot of objections to article 8, on budget expenditure, because we think that's where everything the government wants to hide is hidden. Of course, you don't want to see it, even though you're whispering to each other that you don't know what it's about. It is about the fact that expenditure will go the way the government is resolved by the regulation, as you accept Article 7 of the Regulation, that since 1 January, you are allowing the regulations to schedule the funds, and we are only interested in why the subsidies for agriculture amounted to 6,300,000 and 1,0000.000, which you say will be earned from the water industry, that is why this billion did not go into the revenues of the budget but go as out-of-age income? Why do you trust this in the hands of the Ministry of Agriculture, which, by the decision of its minister in June, we also have an official messenger, and I can tell you when it happened exactly, established a 867-hectare hunting ground, that is to say, took out part of the "Laline Livade" hunting grounds, which is owned by the Mostonga Hunting Association from Odzak, made a special hunting ground on which Polish masts and gravels will be located. The hamlet will never be there, it never was, but it served as the basis for big trade, for the great crime that was later committed past the government's knowledge, which believed its minister and allowed him to carry out one of his own solutions, written on the orders of his associates, into action. A huge damage has been done to the Republic of Serbia and the Mostonga Hunting Association, which has been introduced annually by at least 10,000 pheasants into the hunting grounds. The price of one pheasant is three stamps, so count on how much it costs. But it doesn't hurt you, it doesn't interest you, you won't scold coalition relations with people who are directly destroying the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and maybe they're irrevocably destroying the flora and fauna of the Republic of Serbia, so irrevocably we're going to look, most likely soon, at all other countries, and it's one of the few assets that we have now, when, according to you, we're going to meet the world. On the other hand, the horrifying transfers to southern Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija amounting to 964,000 dinars. When you look at the transfers in other municipalities and cities, and you look at it by sections, you will find that for the needs of the Kosovo and Metohija district, large funds have been allocated for the work of inspection bodies, the detached services of the ministries in Kosovo and Metohija, in four districts. Now I'm really interested in what kind of inspection control you're doing in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija when you provide them with the means to work or are these funds provided for by who knows where and how? I have to tell you that the Jablani County will get less than Prizrenski. I am very interested, if there really is an inspector in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, if there are people from the state apparatus who were employed in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and are now located in the territory of Serbia, why don't you hire them in the state apparatus and then show them their costs in the districts where you hired them? Could these people be sitting at home receiving salaries, sitting at home outside Kosovo and Metohija, because I am convinced that civil servants do not sit on Kosovo and Metohija territory. They ran amongst the first, left a poor woman who doesn't have a job, who doesn't have any income. What does the Ministry of Justice and local self-government display at these costs, and what do other ministries show at costs to be financed in this way? (President: Time. I am not in favour of giving up Kosovo and Metohija in any way or financially. I'm just about to keep everything clean. If there are people living in Kosovo and Metohija who need Kosovo and Metohija to stay in Serbia, give all these people to help with equal honor, whether they work or not, whether they work in the state administration, whether they are peasants, whether the poor person waiting for a truck that will eventually bring in a bag of flour, a little sugar or salt, to be completely solid towards them and to convince those people that they are part of Serbia. Well, if you'd like to see what Vesenov did (keep it in the hands of the map) this is the limit of the hunting grounds within which he set a hunting ground for his partners...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16192	Mr. Nikolic, it is neither a subject nor a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 138, which says that the debate in particular takes up to five minutes, and I warn you...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16193	I'm sorry, I'm finishing up here, but as long as I'm an MP in the National Assembly, and I'll be, if my health options allow me, the Serbian Radical Party will only advance and the topic will always be the fight against crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16194	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 43, against 98, a abstentioned one, did not vote 34, a total of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic, Dusan Ilic and Predrag Mijailovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. The Messenger of the people, Dusan Ilic, will explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16195	In this article, we have proposed some redistributions. In section 42, subdivided 423 - general contract services would be reduced from 2.565.199.000 to 2,000,000. We believe the services under the contract are unrealistically high. With this proposed reduction, we would not question the first basic function. In section 45, sub-division 451 - subsidies for restructuring non-financial enterprises, number 18,481.000,000 would be reduced to 16.583,991.050, as we also believe that this reduction would not significantly affect the realization of this function of restructuring non-financial enterprises. Finally, in section 45, subdivision 4511 — a subsidy for agriculture, we propose an increase of subsidies for agriculture from 7,300,000 to 8,569,837,300. As we have already said in principle in the debate, and also in the debate on the amendment to Article 4, we believe that we would contribute to its further growth, thus increasing the growth of the social product, because this year's experience is the best way to bring it into line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16196	The word has a finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16197	As for this amendment and the agrarian budget and a lot of things should be increased. However, unfortunately, as we know, when we look at the whole picture then we see that public spending is very close to 50% of the estimated gross national income, and that is why it is favourable in this amendment to suggest redistributing some funds rather than increasing public spending. However, if we look at the situation in general, we see that the agrarian budget towards execution is growing significantly. If you look at what is provided for in the agricultural budget and what is foreseen for the purchase of wheat, which goes to the agricultural sector, we see that we have significant growth. When we add to this what was done this year not only in the domain of the budget, but in the tax reform that you voted on in March this year, when agriculture was finally brought into an equal position with other brands, that the sales tax was abolished on everything that comes into agricultural production of artificial manure, food for cattle and other things, seeds, plant protection products from pests; and finally, what you voted on the other day - the elimination of the tax on the market for fresh food; then we see that much has been done in the area of agrarians, which has already given positive effects. I think even one member of the opposition has admitted that much has been done not only in this year but also in the budget for next year, not to mention milk premiums. We also have new items, such as the promotion of the production of cranberry fruit, plums and vineyards. At this point of course we'd like to give more for the agrarian, but we can't do it at the expense of the rest of the economy. The figure we see at 5.5 billion dinars, which is designed for economic restructuring, may seem too large, but it's very small for a country in transition. That's a little over 0.5% of our gross national income. For example, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland, when they entered their transition, had three to five percent of their gross national income for restructuring subsidies. Because if we don't get that, then I think it's going to be very hard to change the business picture. Finally, as far as the deal on the part is concerned, I think we have a simple new classification that had good results and then we see very clear purposes in one place for all organs. Behind this is the greatest point of science. To reduce even more what is foreseen for this purpose, and in our budget for this year, some 0.3% of gross national income would be truly devastating for our scientists. That's how scientific work is financed through a contract with those institutions, which is the biggest item behind it, and for these two or three reasons I would suggest not to vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16198	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16199	Of course it's the job of the finance minister to always say that there's not enough resources, and that's how I imagine one guard of the people's money, but I'd like it to be a direction, if it were a character, if a man by that means we could recognize, not that what he thinks or what his policy thinks he doesn't need money to give, and what he's convinced he can spend as much as he wants to spend, or let's say it shows something that won't be spent at all, so that, since we don't have a final budget account, and all the budget is spent at the end of the year, we don't know where the funds went. How come we don't doubt where four billion dinars are going to go in the Bank Restructuring Fund? Our federal governor of the National Bank is shutting down the geometric progress of the bank, one after the other. Here, from January 3rd and 4th, four banks, 10,000 workers are out of work, even the Investbank, where the entire debt of Serbia's electricity industry, debt-free, is just a clean debt. Tell me, Mr. Minister, how did we do this bank restructuring... Are you the minister? [[growls]] I'd let the minister throw away, but I asked the minister, for God's sakes -- four billion dinars from the poor budget that we could give for agriculture, for child's supplements, for childcare, for the children, you predicted we restructure the banks. Now, tell me which one we restructured and which one will be the restructuring? Not that will be extinguished. Because banks are the owners of our economy. It's not the bank that shuts down, it's not the counters, it's the property that's being shut down, it's getting into somebody else's hands. In whose, Mr. Minister, transitional debts, our companies and debts of public enterprises, the entire property of the Republic of Serbia, into whose hands it passes when it goes into bankruptcy of Invest Bank. Is there a "prick-pick" going on? There's no bank, there's no debts. What are we going to restructure with four billion dinars, or since you won't restructure anything while you have a governor of the National Bank who doesn't cut you, doesn't cut you, has sponsors, same as you, and when they say -- he can go Dinkic, then he will leave, not when you find that he has to go. Which is the bank you're restructured, can we tell the citizens of Serbia -- dear citizens of Serbia, will remain that and that state bank, will stand behind the state, the state will take care of it and its debts, its commanders, the trustees, here, we separate the money in the budget, we want to have one bank from the people's trust. Now, write home for the suit, over here five billion, over there three, over there two, whatever else, and there's a lot of money for restructuring non-financial organisations. It's nice to write, the restructuring fund is 13 billion, I think, 18 think, how much memory I'm serving. It's exactly the Minister - 18; what, what is it that we are restructured, a hundred workers that we provide for them to for two years, for God's sake, and now, after 45 days, they're on paid leave and now with 45% under the Labour Act, compensation from that fee they'd have to do. There's a drop in the O.R. () What will he take care of? Now, please, since you're throwing so much and you're so rude, I'm asking you now to establish a quorum before voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16200	I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the parliamentary units to determine the quorum, and the Serbian Radical Party will play hide-and-seek. I ask the Service to make a count of the MPs. People's MP, you asked for a quorum, Mr. Nikolic, I've already applied it once. You asked for the quorum, and then you came out of the O.R. when you were determined, so I take away your word from you on the basis of Article 103, and I also warn you as deputy head of Parliament that I would not give notice to all the other MPs that, according to article 217, the MP is obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly. That means he's involved in the quorum as well. If he can participate in the discussion, then he can participate in the quorum. (Tomislav Nikolic stands next to the pay phone and says, "How can you make a decision in a break, you don't have a quorum?" It's not in the break, I haven't set a break yet, I told the Service to do the count. I didn't set a break. We'll determine the quorum by counting. (Tomislav Nikolic goes to the door and says, "When you establish the quorum, then come and give me the punishment." I find that we have a quorum and that we can continue to work. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 44, against 91, there are no abstentions, two did not vote, of a total of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Culibrk. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does she want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16201	Dear People's MPs, I have proposed in Article 8 of the amendment, which speaks of budget expenditure on the basis of the purpose of the 45-billion-dollar economic classification of subsidies, the introduction of a subsidy for the promotion of exports of 6 billion dinars. Since this budget has quite a lot of funding for subsidies and we agree that, after the government's decision, business and other organisations should be subsidized, however, because of a dinar course that has been standing for more than a year on 30,00 dinars for one German mark, it is unrealistically low. If we want a market economy, we can't maintain an artificial course with, let's say, administrative measures of the National Bank. It's true that the offer decides on the course of the dinar, but it's only one basis. We can't have a rate of 30,00 dinars for a year and a half, that the dinar interest in banks is 4-6%, that we have a drop in industrial production, that we have so much imbalance in the budget, and that we keep the dinar course at that level. This leads to the detimulation of producers who have their place on foreign markets, but with this long and unfavourable holding of the dinar course, they are becoming increasingly difficult. Thus, exporters reduce exports and come into a very difficult situation. I suggest that these funds be replaced from the item to be paid for foreign loans, and that the amount of 15 billion, proposed for the payment of loans to foreign banks, be found at the National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16202	Mr. Nikolic, I took your word. We had a quorum. (Tomislav Nikolic: When? You heard when. (Tomislav Nikolic: There was no session. ) There was a session, we were establishing a quorum, we were checking the quorum, and it turns out we have a quorum. You only have the right to a replica by your Rules of Procedure. Read the Rules of Procedure. The basis for the replica? You don't have a replica, Mr. Nikolic. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? (Tomislav Nikolic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You can't follow the Rules of Procedure because your word has been taken from you. Read the Rules of Procedure. (Tomislav Nikolic: When did you take away my word? I took away your word during the session. She was doing a session. (Tomislav Nikolic: There was no quorum. There was a quorum. There was a quorum check in progress and we had a quorum. The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16203	Here, Milka says let's get started. Maybe we should have suggested you to be president of the National Assembly. My colleague Marko Culibrk warned of one fact, this amendment has above all one warning character and the need to draw attention to what we talked about in the principle debate, and this also showed the exposés of the prime minister and minister in that part, that the industry, the economy in Serbia is in recession and in significant decline. This budget is a recession. The exchange of goods and services with abroad is done at Serbia's expense. Imports are many times larger, losses on this basis are very large, estimated at over two billion marks. Only the exchange with Slovenia was 200 million marks and we exported 37 million worth of goods and imported 167 million. (Honey Angelkovic: Theme. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16204	Please don't throw away the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16205	The subject is economic subsidies and therefore listen carefully to what I'm talking about. The amendment was aimed at and this proposal by the Proposer on behalf of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group to oppose subsidies to exporters by an import lobby in this country; the government has no intention or intention to protect the import lobby. However, gentlemen, to observe the fact that the import price of fertilisers is in agriculture between 16 and 19 marks, and in exchange, in retail, you can buy it for 42 to 55 marks, there are extraprfits. The fertilizer factories have stopped and almost no one will have production. The bomb factory of the fertilizer has been stopped because the power's off. She stopped working, even though she provided raw materials, hired labour, and the question is, what happens now to 1,000 workers. It's not just the Shabačka fertilizer factory, the whole Zorke complex, most of the Zorke chemical industry is standing, and a good part of that complex is export-oriented. It's just one of the environments you can talk about. What about Viscoss? It's 90% export-oriented. There's an MP here from Loznica, why don't they come out and say something about it, and they're in power. You can't just tell stories out loud. The amendment requires that 6 billion dinars be allocated to stimulate exports. We have something to take out, but it can't be exported under these conditions. Irregular treatment of importers and exporters is. In banks, importers go better, they get credentials, they can easily import goods, there's no dumping. There is absolute dumping, so there are no price control conditions. Therefore, this amendment makes a lot of sense. You continue to shout, no one will listen, you are not interested in it, as neither is the Serbian prime minister, as we are not interested in the minister and we are coming into a situation that will lock up Serbia's economy next year. We'll only have importers. Mr. Nikolic, not even his colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party, this is of particular interest, which is surprising to me, although they were trying to make a contribution with us, and I'm not surprised anymore, who knows what's going on with all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16206	Replica, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16207	Mrs. Micic, I don't know where you get that smile when I know how much you hate me. This lawlessness you apply to me does not apply to a man who is nice to you. I can't imagine myself being a part of any of you 249 in this way being haunted and harassed: or something about you hasn't been right since birth, or you've been given a warrant not to be in the O.R., but it doesn't change things. I think I've said enough of my opinion on the budget. You've done the harshest, most severe violation of the Rules of Procedure. The moment there was no quorum on the electronic system, you could have said that the system wasn't operational, so you were asking to determine the count. You had no right to ask for a count and you had no quorum. The session didn't exist, and you gave me a measure of taking away words. To that end, I should have come down from the pay phone, because the take-out measure is expressed in accordance with Article 103(2). I have to leave the pay phone when you take away my word. I was sitting in the O.R. You could have suggested that I be disfellowshipped from the session, but I can't produce a word confiscation measure, because I didn't use the word, President of the National Assembly. There is no penalty measure to take words from an MP sitting in a bench. It may be a reminder and disfellowshipped, and the measure of taking away words for an MP who uses that word at that time. You are now punishing me in advance, for future times, when I would like to use my own word. Of course, your majority is big, stay calm, settle, turn your hands behind your back. You'll have a majority of MPs and to throw me out, it's not hard for you. It is not contrary to your democratic principles. That's what they're telling you from abroad. You decide with someone else's head. You have one-way chips that only receive and transmit information, don't form any information based on the database, and I have 13 seconds left and you will suffer even if everyone goes crazy. So, Mrs. Micic, your book is getting bigger and bigger. I can't wait for Dragan the Martian to return to the seat of the president of the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16208	This was a replica of Mr Nikolic, but it was purely for the sake of information, although it was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, article 104 says, "The measure of confiscation of words is expressed to the MP who has previously been given two measures of warning, which also makes it a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure." And one of the injuries, provided for in Article 103, is that "the warning is given to the People's MP, if other procedures violate the order of the session or act contrary to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure". As for the quorum, according to Article 95: "The President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly when it determines the lack of quorum at the session of the National Assembly until the quorum is secured." I didn't interrupt the session, so it was a quorum determination, we had a quorum, the session was in progress. There was no interruption. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 40, against 112 abstentions, there was no 13 vote, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Finance submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill since it was accepted by a representative of the Government at a session of the Finance Committee. The 9th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. The amendment will be explained by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16209	Ladies and gentlemen, the Members of Parliament under our amendment 9 is amended and reads: "The funds of the budget amounting to 161,918,914,000 dinars and current revenues of direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget amounting to 14,838,675,000 dinars are allocated to users and close types of expenditure on the basis of Articles 2 and 8 of this Law. The amendment to Article 9 covers total budget expenditure, which should be reduced and deployed by users and close types of expenditure, based on Articles 2 and 8 of this Act. The amendments to Articles 2 and 8 provided for total budget expenditure in accordance with the budget revenues of our Article 1 of this Act to the budget. Why is the budget getting shorter, or less notice, from it? This gives the government the opportunity to finance all NGOs, which covered the whole area of Serbia and beyond. All these organisations were financed during the previous period from abroad. Now, there is no more, so the government is now making a commitment to the 2002 budget, and NGOs are funding political parties. Example: The Center for Democracy is funded by the Democratic Centre. It's visible in Article 9 where I submitted the amendment. If the specific expenditure from the budget of the users allocated by the close types of expenditure in heading 1, the number of positions 5, the general services under the contract amount to two million dinars, are completely undefined and easily possible for various abuses, mainly for research into public opinion on the cost of Serbian citizens. Split of 2 members of the same article (9) positions 10, economic classification of 413 (a fee in nature), are completely pointless, it is about 5 million dinars, as before this category of payments was made in the nature of this Djindjic government, with Minister Djelic, attacked (workmen can only receive money and nothing in nature). The fees in nature have been incurred in all parts of this article by the users of the budget in this article. General services under contract in heading 5, heading 83, economic classification 423, amount to 30 million dinars, etc. In all ministries it is the same indicated, so it is obvious that there are insufficiently defined items, which are easily manipulated and which will not be transparent, as you say. And in particular division 7, the number of positions 131, the economic classification of 442, at the Ministry of Finance and Economy amounting to 15,612,000,000 for the repayment of foreign interest should be deleted. These interest payments should be paid by donations, not by paying out of Serbia's budget. That's how you said it. Where are your six billion donations, so try to return both interest and capital from those funds? What about our assets that are frozen in foreign banks? Is interest on the table? We Serbian radicals, we advocate that this budget be restrictive, that is to say, not to be so distasteful and generous only for certain users. We are looking for a reduction in public spending, i.e. erasure of unnecessary expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16210	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? (Natasa Jovanovic and Gordana Pop-Lazic are looking for a word. I'm talking about a concrete amendment, I don't have the power of attorney right now. Here's my colleague Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16211	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to ensure continuity in the work of the Assembly when there is no President of the Assembly. You have a letter from the SRS parliamentary group, when in the hall are not President Vojislav Seselj, Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic, that I am a representative of the parliamentary group. We gave it to you a few months ago, knowing you'd throw us out every session in a row, as follows.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16212	My colleague Pop-Lazic, I gave you my word in the belief that it was what you said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16213	The amendment to Article 9 is in line with the amendment that we tabled to Article 2 and Article 8, i.e. a completely new budget projection, because we planned for the budget to be realistically 161 billion. 908 million and 914 thousand dinars. We had in mind the announced inflation, as the minister here at the exposé said, and of course, the growth of gross national income, as planned, of 4%. Everything else - the difference between 161 billion and 200 expenditures, i.e. up to 234 billion, is a wasteful part of the budget, and for this reason we have asked to reduce Article 9 and to delete costs for business trips, which are incredibly large, billions and 135 million, and we know that the prime minister and other government officials are mostly travelling by private planes, or are paying them, so I don't see any reason why such high costs for business travel are projected. (Glass from the O.R.: And aliens.) And aliens, it's true, ma'am, these foreigners are like aliens. We talked about paying off foreign interest. You're in debt, interest is 15 billion. And 612 million dinars, instead of looking for what they owe us from abroad. First, the projection is about five billion dollars, our assets frozen, making our banks, making our business organizations abroad. I'm asking you, do interest abroad on our assets frozen? No, you didn't do anything, you didn't do anything, you didn't do anything federal, the same governmental, republican and federal level, that those funds were defrosted, that they were returned, or that the interest was accounted for, and the foreigners weren't as crazy as Mr Dinkic is, that they were kept in some vault, in a straw, that they weren't turned around. They turn them around, and they have, of course, an adequate profit. In addition, the bank restructuring fund, what is done with banks in Yugoslavia, Serbia in particular, is something that will be written in history and that will remain a black spot for us. It's not just those 10,000, 12,000 employees in those banks, although it's a huge number. We know that in January that figure will come to this projected figure, 80, but it will be 100,000 unemployed. We would like to know, let the minister come out, shortly before Tomislav Nikolic asked him a question, which are the banks that we will restructure and for which we need 4 billion and 50 million. The ongoing transfer for southern Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija should be completely deleted as an item, as it is money given to a man who can only abuse that money and cannot spend it on the benefit of Serbian national interests. The other budget fees, worth 7 billion 450 million, are not a transparent item at all, Mr. Minister. What is considered "other fees from the budget", no one knows. We'll probably see from the material you'll be delivering to us in the final account of what you spent that money on this year. It's a huge number and there's no need to show up like this, especially since in every ministry, the other fees were designed at a very high amount. Donations to NGOs, please, you've given here an explanation that it's the Red Cross, that it's the association of this, what, blind, deaf and so forth. You said "and Dr." Now we're worried about "and dr"... - Chairman, time. ) Because we know that it is the Center for Democratic Studies, that it is a Belgrade Centre for Human Rights, all of these are NGOs through which political parties are financed. Don't, gentlemen of the DOS, fund your political parties from the budget and from the skin of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16214	Please finish, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16215	I think it would be most profitable for DOS to start a public company to produce leather gallantry, from the skin of taxpayers. This would be the best place to profit.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16216	My colleague Pop-Lazic, I gave you my word in confidence that I do not currently have your power of attorney with me, and that the SRS has given power of attorney to the Service. At this moment, I have the power of attorney, under which you are really authorized to participate instead of Ambassador Aleksandr Vukic, who is the first to replace Mr Nikolic. However, according to the text, this power of attorney concerns discussions on the Transport Tax Act and the Excise Act. I don't have the power to discuss the budget and I'm asking you to show it to me. I don't have it. Please don't take this as a restriction on your right. I won't give you my word in the future. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 37, against 96, there were no abstentions, there was no 19 vote, a total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Vesic submitted to the 9th amendment. He withdrew the amendment, along with the amendment to Article 6, during yesterday's debate. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic, Dusan Milic and Predrag Mijailovic. The Finance Committee has partially accepted this amendment, submitting its amendment to Article 9 which has become an integral part of the draft law. The representative of the amendments still wants a word. Here you go, colleague Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16217	Members of Parliament, amendment to Article 9 refers to certain divisions, we believe that some divisions here are not the place in the budget, and of course some divisions, and we have suggested that some items be included in the budget. In the end, the Finance Committee accepted that. As for things that we don't think belong in their budget, first in Section 2, we suggest that Chapter 2 be deleted. 1, i.e. the financing of the Ombudsman institution, since the Ministry of Justice and local self-government has not yet put forward a proposal for an ombudsman law. There's only one draft that goes through congregation towers. We don't think it's appropriate to prejudge the budget of passing a certain law. We simply feel that this item should be deleted. Then in Section 5, as well as in other additional sections, which talk about agencies and the communications bureau, we believe that these items should be deleted for two reasons. The first is that we additionally burden our administration, or increase the administration, although there is one pre-election promise that we will reduce. We have the agencies, which have already been established by an unconstitutional regulation, introduced into the ministries and thus increased the budget by 57 million. I will remind you, the Communications Bureau - 10 million 370 thousand; the Agency for the Promotion of State Administration within the Ministry of Justice - 8 million 670 thousand; the Agency for Foreign Investments and Export Promotion - 5 million 136 000; the Agency for the Development of Informatics and the Internet - 21 million 95 000; the Culture Agency within the Ministry of Culture million and 538 thousand; and the Recycling Agency - 15 million and 474 thousand dinars. We believe that by deleting these items, we would be disbursing the budget. We'd cut the administration, too. As for section 13, we suggest that, in addition to the Kolubar County Reconstruction Directorate, which was affected by the earthquake, the Rasin County Reconstruction Directorate was added, which was hit by an earthquake in July 1999. Then, we propose that in section 34, two new items be added, which we have proposed together with the Refugee Commissioner. So in section 34, we would add two new positions, purchase buildings and buildings and construction of buildings and buildings, totaling 300 million dinars, and given the integration of the refugees, we consider it a way to permanently resolve their status. We feel that this would significantly help solve this problem. However, by abandoning this position, the government has made it impossible for the Commissioner to participate in international donors for funds intended for integration. We suggest that these items be added to the budget. Finally, as far as these items are concerned, I would like to remind you that the committees have accepted amendments, or items that refer to the Commissioner for Refugees. I forgot this, as far as health care is concerned, we suggest that in section 21, heading 347, economic classification - 42 43, an increase from 700 million to 900 million, in order to increase the funds allocated to health at the expense of the current budget reserve. I remind you that the Finance Committee has accepted some of these items, but I do not see any reason for this reduction in administration and non-constitutional agencies to be deleted from the budget as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16218	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a finance minister, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16219	As far as this amendment is concerned, as you can see, the Finance Committee has proposed amendments and we as Government have accepted some of the elements in this amendment. I would like first to explain some of the elements that we have not accepted as Government, after mentioning what has been accepted and what I would suggest to vote as a new amendment at this point. As far as the agencies are concerned, there were a lot of stories about these bodies. I can say that it was one of the novelties that the Government of the Republic of Serbia wanted to put into work, not because it would avoid Parliament's control, but that it could speed up reform and introduce something that proved to be a very effective way of doing business in some other countries, above all, I mean Scandinavian countries and some countries in transition. Behind the agency's words, there's just something called the government's professional service, and that's why it's not a constitutionally created agency because it doesn't penetrate administrative affairs. So no agency, any of those formed by the regulation, can penetrate any administrative procedure, nor can they propose any paper to the Government for adoption. None of these agencies can propose any papers to the government. It's got to go through the Ministry. So it's not true to say that the government usurped the intelligence of some ministries or some administrations. Depends, some started to do something. It is obvious that the Agency for Information and the Internet fills in something that was a void, but it has some difficulties in business, because it simply needs to coordinate as a professional body, to help various ministries, to come out with a common attitude about equipment and information in our country. Because of that, I don't think there's a lot of spending around these agencies when it's all added up. I just want to point out that you were talking about the recycling agency that existed before this Serbian government. So she's been there for a few years. There is no unconstitutional establishment, nor is there any desire to avoid controlling the work of these bodies by Parliament. As far as Racine County is concerned, we must respect the law that has been passed and it covers the Colubary County. If you look at the funds, they're slightly reduced this year. There are a lot of debts that the previous regime has made and that are not settled. That's what 867,000 dinars will be used for. Hand to heart, there's a little more money, because there are other facilities that have to be repaired, but this time without abuse, without repairing buildings of some political parties or building a house with a pool, but in the right way. But that's what we'll talk about next month when what's already been proposed next month, and that's the final bill for 2000 and, more importantly, the budget inspection report that's done its job. You already have the time document. It's about Racine County. Of course, there are a lot of problems in that county, but I don't think we're capable of supporting the timing. Finally, three things the DSS initiative proposed as a new amendment, and the government accepted. I'd like to invite the MPs to vote for the timing. Those three things were the first things I mentioned, Mr. Ilic, and that's erasing the subject of "ombudsman" that is, the People's Attorney. Since the institution is foreseen as one of the DOS pre-election promises, where there is no major debate on whether or not we should have such an institution, the Serbian government adopted the bill and sent it through the Parliament's regular procedure. But we can say that this is a little prejudged by the outcome of the National Assembly vote, and it is therefore accepted that this division is deleted and that six million, as scheduled, are transferred to the current budget reserve. The moment the budget rebalances, in a few weeks, no later than a month, we'll suggest a secret division, if the National Assembly votes that law. The other thing is the Commissioner for Refugees. We can say that the new team has been very active in these affairs. One real list was made, so there's no abuse in who has the status and who doesn't have refugee status. I think these extra 300 million dinars, which we need to take from the budget reserve that's pretty small, will help in two directions. The first is for these people to leave these homes, to provide some building material so that they can build their own house on some favourable terms. Another thing is mere survival under very difficult circumstances, those 40,000 or 50,000 of our countrymen living under difficult circumstances in various homes. We supported it. The third DSS initiative we support is an increase in the Health Infrastructure Fund. With that extra 200 million, that fund is growing to 900 million, and that's what's promised, and that's the excise tax on health cigarettes. That is why I invite you to vote for this new amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16220	Anybody else answer for a word? Mrs. Pop-Lazic, without wanting to restrict anyone's rights, but with the desire to ensure strict application of the Rules of Procedure, I received the authority of Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the parliamentary group, empowers you to replace him with all the powers. That possibility really exists under Article 38. Rules of Procedure, but until certain conditions are met. So, I would have received this power of attorney if she had been handed over until the debate on the agenda was opened. However, as the Rules of Procedure say that this power of attorney can be handed over no later than the opening of the debate on this agenda, and since we opened the debate three days ago, I cannot accept this power of attorney. Therefore, in this situation, the SRS deprived itself of its rights. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16221	Mr. Chairman, I'm not surprised you're acting like this and making decisions like this. You have lost one motion for a decision to form a committee on the collapse of the Jugocank firm, and your failure has not made it to the agenda. I'm not surprised you lost the general authority that was delivered to you months ago, applies to all the sessions and sessions of the National Assembly. Please calm the assembly so I can speak. Do I have the right to speak at all, Mr. Chairman? (President: Please, colleagues Pop-Lazic, and other MPs in the hall to listen to Ambassador Gordana Pop-Lazic. I don't abuse a pay phone. I'm using my time to comment on my parliamentary right and your position. Please ensure peace in the O.R. Mr. Chairman, consider how realistic it is at the beginning of the session, to assess how many members of the SRS you're going to throw out or take away their word. So we need to estimate up to 23 how many of us are going to get out of the O.R. to give you the authority to represent a parliamentary group in advance, before the beginning of the session. Where does it stand in the Rules of Procedure that the parliamentary group may be deprived of the possibility of having representatives of the parliamentary group and why do you do so? You want to speed up the budget work? Well, he's gonna end up like that today. Let us comment on the amendments submitted by us and the other MPs. I don't see that we're slowing down the work of the Assembly. On the contrary, it seems to me that we are contributing to the quality of the work. I wanted to talk about the DSS amendment and comment on the government's position that adopted this amendment, and you're making it impossible for me. Please reconsider your property, because this is something unheard of, and it only testifies how you understand democracy in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16222	To be clear, colleague Pop-Lazic, I have pointed out in advance that I do not want to deny anyone any rights. If this submission had been given under the terms of the Rules of Procedure, of course I would have respected it. I was quoting the provision of Article 38, Article 3, which is perfectly clear. Such power of attorney shall be handed over at the latest until the hearing has been opened. As for the rights of the Serbian Radical Party, I don't see why it would be denied. Mr. Seselj is not here, he's the head of the parliamentary group, he could talk about attending. So, I don't want to violate the Rules of Procedure, I want to strictly apply it. If you want, I can put your claim to the vote that I hurt the Rules of Procedure. (Glasses -- here, you see the list. There's no list, there's no list. There's a list for two acts, but not for the budget. Please show me if there is one. (Comments by the Serbian Radical Party MPs do not understand each other, they speak at the same time.) Gentlemen, I don't want to do this. If you think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, I can put it to a vote. Once again, I ask if you want me to put on a vote of objection that I hurt the Rules of Procedure. [[Sagar.]] Yes, you do. So, wait for Mr. Minister and you, Mr. Zeljo, Mrs. Pop-Lazic wants to make a statement about her business remarks. I am putting to the vote the remarks of MP Gordana Pop-Lazic that, without applying power of attorney, signed by MP Vojislav Seselj, I have committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. For 21, v 79, abstention one, did not vote 51, a total of 152. Thus, the National Assembly found that the chairman had not committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Zeljo Huric, deputy head of the parliamentary group. Here's a colleague of Huric's.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16223	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, it was only after you gave your word to Mrs. Pop-Lazic that you committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. In fact, article 97 says, "The right to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure only has a president or representative of the parliamentary group." Since it has challenged the right of representatives of the parliamentary group, it could not react according to the Rules of Procedure. It means that the Rules of Procedure have been broken in article 97 and I ask you not to do so in the future. I'm not asking you to vote on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16224	Thank you. The Minister of Finance, Mr Djelic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16225	I want to apologize to the MPs. For the first time, I've faced this situation, and I've mixed up the pots. So that part of the amendment that has become the new amendment of the Committee, which the government has adopted, has become an integral part of the bill and should not be voted on. However, given that the amendment's proposal remains with its amendment, what has been accepted is already an integral part of the law, and I therefore suggest that you vote against this amendment on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16226	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 79, two abstentions, 25 did not vote, a total of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16227	I am withdrawing the amendment to Section 7, as the amendment of the Justice Committee has been fully adopted. That's why I'm withdrawing that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16228	I thank and realize that Parliamentarian Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović withdrew the amendment to Article 9. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Stankovic, Slobodan Tomovic, Bora Stanimirovic, Nebojsa Jovic, Dragan Todorovic and Radojko Petrovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the representative of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you see for yourself that by adopting such a Rules of Procedure on Labour, we have led to absurdity the work of the Assembly. So much so that the government has made such a budget structure that, for example, only a member of the 9th that practically covers the entire budget and is on the 27th page. If one parliamentary club has the right to submit only one amendment to one member of the law, then you can see how much can be done when it comes to Article 9, and we've already had a few suggestions. Mr. Finance's presentation to the SPS MPs' club, speaking about the economic programme and the Republic of Serbia's 2002 budget, was mostly about two news. He mentioned one bad and one good news. I'd also like to mention two news. The first news is good news, the finance minister is a great optimist, at least when it comes to security for 2002, and the bad news is that the finance minister has no cover in economic policy and the 2002 budget. Secondly, in this style I would also mention the good news, let's say for pensioners, that they will receive 12 pensions in 2002, but the bad news - after the adoption of this new law, when three months of pension accounting is carried out, the pensioners will receive close to 2.5 pensions less than expected in 2002. The good news is that this year's budget is up by 105 billion dinars, but it's bad news that taxpayers, that citizens will have to pay 105 billion taxes more next year than this year. The good news is that the 2002 budget is 219 billion, but it's bad news that no single dinar, let's just say, for export credit subsidies to those companies that are able to do so. Therefore, this suggests that the budget is not in the function of production development, because still, regardless of the situation and what is foreseen by even the government to increase production by 0%, there are companies in Serbia, we heard this just now, which can produce and can practically export, have their export programmes. That's the case with the firm in Vranj. Simpo, who's doing a good job, has his own export program, so he could use these kind of subsidies and how good it would be. It's about Alpha, Welder, the Yumk that's currently in crisis, just thanks to some crisis headquarters, which have affected the company's own human policy. As a result, the SPS parliamentary club proposes to provide for six billion dinar subsidies for next year, in order at least to revive production, or exports, in those companies where possible. When I am here, under this amendment, I would underline what is in Article 9 of the multi-purpose use of water is supposed to be set aside 250 mil for the construction, or for the completion of the dam at Vranjska Banje. The dinars, 150 million from the budget and 100 million from the real sources of the water industry. I would especially stress this, because the south of Serbia, especially the municipalities of Vranje and Bujanovac, is double, due to inadequate water supply, in a difficult situation -- firstly, that the wells in South Morava are such capacity that during the summer months there is no water at all in these municipalities and secondly, that there is a high percentage of manganese concentrates in these wells, which is very dangerous for human health, so that was the reason that in these municipalities, even 12 or more years ago, they discussed the construction of a new accumulation, and it was then started. I can say that this accumulation is almost over, that about 90% of the work has been done and that it would take another 300 million to finish these jobs. The dinar. I note, if this does not happen, that the situation is getting worse after NATO bombing, because the poored uranium is present at some half a mile [3 km] from the wells where these two municipalities are being supplied. This is how it will happen if this accumulation, or dam, is not completed in 2002, that the citizens of Vranja and Bujanovac will be able to drink water with a high percentage of manganese enriched uranium next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16230	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Dragan Tomic, as representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16231	Article 9. The budget law is the essence and is nominally expressed throughout the budget. About the selective parts of the budget, about what represents the whole of what is written, we have spoken in previous amendments. I just want to remind in principle once again that there's definitely no hearing from anyone here about those warnings we talked about. If it is envisaged, spoken and explained here, the stagnation of production in the economy, and the budget will be nominally expressed and higher by 103 billion compared to last year, or last year's budget was 129 billion, I have to say, if you don't have a growth in production, if you don't have a stable banking system, then I don't understand how we're going to cover these sources? For what you have proposed as a way to cover these sources, means by means of privatisation, Minister Vlahovic said that as soon as tenders are opened, you will publicly state how much revenue has been achieved on that basis. We know that you sold Beocin factory to the French, you sold the other to the Germans, that's Koseric, and you sold the third Popovac to the Greeks. As much as you get the money, no one knows yet, because in public it's not said. When you say Article 9, I'm talking about donations, you haven't mentioned a single word about them here, except in part two, in an explanation, when you're talking about how you're going to fill in, etc. Indeed, the remarks, when it comes to the agencies of the bureaus you appointed and appointed, are justified. It's just amazing that one ministry has next to it, so besides its entire professional service, established and agency to do some extra work. We entered a debate yesterday on the Committee on Finance, where our MPs proposed new amendments to Article 9, and they explained this in an alphabetic order from d) to i). Although the debate on Mr Pal Sandor's amendment was accepted, it could have been an amendment and proposed a new Article 9a, it was then found that SPS MPs were making abuses and violating the Rules of Procedure. That's not true, members 139 and 143. The Rules of Procedure do not provide anywhere that a new member cannot go in the draft law or other act as an amendment. And of course, by violent majority, for the millionth time here, you've realized you're right. Of course, Serbian citizens already feel it, that force, feel how right you are. To go back to what I was saying -- it's just amazing, when it comes to energy, that you invested 400 billion. Here, and counterpart Zoran Novakovic had some serious objections yesterday, and I don't understand why the Soviets didn't give their amendments, so here she explained all of this, but she was restrained on that point. I'd like to ask for an answer on energy -- why do we have shortages now, why do plants jump out? Are we preparing her for sale, too, or are we putting her into some kind of transition and restructuring fund? I have to say that this is the recession budget, there will be no increase in production, there will be no growth in living standards and there will be no higher wages. The theme is exactly what I'm talking about. It's contained in these 22 pages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16232	He has the word National MP Zoran Novakovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16233	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had no intention of plowing, but I'd have to say something that was really, really, really debatable on the Finance Committee yesterday. I don't want to convince you, there's been an insult to the intellectual level, etc. Finally, the Rules of Procedure were broken, and I, relating to Article 9, when this was mentioned, to be clear, tried to propose an amendment to the Finance Committee, which refers to the energy mentioned here. This is about division 11, heading 198, classification 451, which refers to the subsidies of JP Elektroprivreda Serbia, amounting to three billion and 900 million dinars in next year's budget. Yesterday, I asked the Minister, Mr Djelic, to explain to us, yesterday or if he can do so at the session, from the grant of JP "Electroprivreda" to Serbia for 2002, given all the donations that amount to several hundred million marks in this year and the donations made to the team in the first quarter of 2002, means in the warm season. I would once again ask the minister to try to explain it to us. As for the budget, I am grateful to Mr Kovacevic Stank for yesterday mentioning this group, the parliamentary group that was in Vienna. I would ask him to mention Mr Russell's IMF comment on his exposé on privatisation in Serbia. As for the budget and budget deficit, I would ask Mr. Minister to tell us, and so could Mr. Stanko Kovacevic, whether the budget is damaged and whether it will be damaged in view of what was said in Study B and TV BK... (President: Time) These days, for 135 thousand tonnes of mules, no sales and excise tax has been paid, the mule has been converted into electricity that has been exported via Albania and Macedonia to Greece in the past 45 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16234	Right on line, MP Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16235	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs cannot answer this second part of the questions that my colleague Zoran Novakovic has asked, because I do not know the details he is talking about. And as I know the details of our joint seminar in Vienna, which was organised by the International Monetary Fund, there was also money, Mrs Jovanovic, don't worry, there was money and there will be money. The country that respects international standards will be the money. Mr. Zoran Novakovic said that in my address yesterday I did not mention my dialogue with Mr. Russell, the seminar director, when we discussed the issue of privatisation. BiH representative Mr. Abdic asked him to advise on what they would use the privatisation funds for. I took the floor and passed on our experience: Serbia's law can serve what all privatisation funds can use. Then we came to the subject of tender and auction privatisation, so I informed that we had foreseen in tenders as an option that the bidder, an interested company buyer, should also offer a social programme. Replica, the dialogue with Mr Russell was taking place in this regard, because he felt that it was wrong, because in this way we reject the right buyers, which is why I intervened that it was for purely psychological reasons, that workers and employees of a privatised company should know that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the legislator are taking care of their future and their fate. Why do they require a future buyer and bidder to make a statement about what he will do with the surplus workers he will require to be fired. That's the dialogue we've been conducting, and that's where Mr. Russell said that he wouldn't want to be a member of such a tender commission, and that I accepted as his normal position. From our point of view, the option of the offerer's social programme in privatisation must be. Whether it will be accepted or not depends on who is selling and on who is buying, and probably also the union in the privatisation company will give a word on the proposal for a social programme. It was a controversy between Mr. Russell and me. On the opposite side of the ocean, in Washington there was Mr. Safjin Gupta, if I am not mistaken, Mr. Celic, who participated in this debate and in the way he nodded his head, gave me the right to have the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the law on privatisation perfectly correct, when he takes care of the fate of the company workers who are going to be out of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16236	I didn't hear you mention it. Here you go, Miss Natasa Jovanovic's replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16237	I am using the right to reply because Mr Stanko Kovacevic Cane or whatever you call him, directly mentioned me from the assembly booth, speaking of his participation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia delegation at a seminar organised by the IMF. Speaking of such money, Mr Kovacevic, first of all I have to remind the public of the fact that there is always some money in your head, and whether it is half a million marks that Djindjic has recited to you, so now you're back on track, because one day you were lost. As far as you got in return, I don't know, but you are obliged, Mr Kovacevic, to inform us here, as well as the Rules of Procedure, or Article 233, which delegation you were in. That should inform us of the official head of the delegation, whose expense, who paid your way and what you were doing there, who authorized you to go there at all. It would be good if you didn't use the assembly pay phone to try to impress us with some empty stories about your successes, the praises that come from foreign power centers at the expense of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We who live here, who know what the disastrous government of Djindjic is, are all clear and no praise is needed from your mentors.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16238	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? (No). I'm putting the amendment to vote. (Gardana Pop-Lazic, from the scene: I have the right to the word. You have no right, you are not authorized, you are not a representative of a parliamentary group in accordance with Article 38. You have the right to vote. For 32, against 88, two abstentions, were not voted 38, out of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. No, you're not a representative, I'm sorry, I'm not giving you my word, I didn't give you my word, you don't have a word. Don't come any closer, I won't give you my word. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: As it is not, she is a deputy. The Messenger of the people, Vojislav Seselj, can do it. Call him to come. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: How to come when he is not here. That's your problem. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: You come out any minute and someone replaces you. Well, you had the right to replace him, too, but you... There's no right, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please step away from the pay phone. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I give you notice on the basis of article 103, first warning. Please step away from the pay phone. I've read the authorization. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, first of all, we're not going to compromise. On the basis of Article 38. Rules of Procedure: "In the course of the National Assembly session, a parliamentary group may authorise one of its members to represent a parliamentary group according to a specific agenda, which the president of the parliamentary group has writtenly informed the President of the National Assembly, no later than the opening of the debate on that agenda point." You haven't fulfilled the tycoon. (Tomislav Nikolic: Read Item 2, we have fulfilled attitude 2.) You failed, but you violated article 38. So that's the first condition. I can't accept it, neither did the deputy of mine, this authority, and I can't accept it, because it doesn't comply with Article 38. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please step aside, I've already given you one warning. There's a deadline until it's tolerated. I'm really sorry. It's not in Section 2, but it's in Article 38. Everyone has to respect each other equally. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please step away from the pay phone. I give you a second reminder under Article 103. (Tomislav Nikolic: Read a bit of thisWorker. ) On the basis of Article 104, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I take your word, because after two warnings you did not want to step away from the pay phone. (Tomislav Nikolic: She is deputy head of the parliamentary group. You're wrong. Mrs. Jovanovic, please step aside so I don't apply Article 103 to you. (Tomislav Nikolic: Who represents our parliamentary group? ) It is represented by MP Vojislav Seselj. (Tomislav Nikolic: He is not here. I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. Perhaps Mr. Seselj will be able to make it. [[After break - 15.45]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please continue the session to insert your identification cards into the MPs' units to determine the quorum. I find that the electronic system is out of service and I ask the Service to count the MPs. I'm asking the Service to hand over how many MPs we have, and I don't know why you left the O.R. after I found out that it wasn't in the function of the electronic system. Have you counted how many MPs there are? Please hand me the paper. I find that the Service has determined that 131 MPs are present in the O.R. So we have a quorum and we can keep working. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, as representative of the SRS parliamentary group, and according to the act they delivered at the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16240	Madam Chairman, you have violated the Rules of Procedure, and this is Article 1, Article 38(2), Article 103 and Article 104. What happened before this break is indeed a dictatorship in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and it is time for the National Assembly to declare whether the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and such a restrictive Rules of Procedure that you have brought, and to deal with political insinuators, above all, with the MPs of the SRS. I will remind you, Mrs Micic, that you gave a second warning today to the deputy head of the parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, just because you want to probably tell us that MPs cannot talk about ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. You gave him a warning at the moment he spoke about the criminal activities of the Minister for Agriculture Dragan Veselinov, written by all the DOS daily presses. After that, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, without a quorum, took away the word at the moment when only 120 MPs were present in the assembly hall, and Mr Nikolic was not behind the assembly pay phone at all. You received two notifications from Mr Tomislav Nikolic; firstly, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic is a representative of the SRS parliamentary group. And whoever replaced you as chairman, Mr. Sabic gave Mrs. Pop-Lazic the opportunity to explain the amendment to Article 9, and then gave her the opportunity to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because when you took away Mr. Nikolic's word in such an anti-business way, the most normal thing is that we now have our deputy. No, that wasn't enough because Mr. Sabic called for Article 38(2). The Rules of Procedure and completely misread it. So Mr Tomislav Nikolic wrote you a new memo saying that he was transferring his rights to Mrs Pop-Lazic's deputy head of Parliament. You, from the post of chairman, both me and Mrs. Pop-Lazic, with a sign of approval, by noding her head, said that it was okay and at the moment when Mrs. Pop-Lazic asked for a word, you first said one to her when she came out for a pay phone, so I took another warning, and then you took away her word. The SRS parliamentary group, we decent Serbs elected by our people, will not suffer your terror in the Serbian Parliament. In protest of your cowboyism, because of your will, because of the tyranny you are conducting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, protecting criminals from Djindjic's government, we are leaving the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session, and you, Mrs Micic, and the DOS majority, are a sign that you are breaking up and that you know that your citizens, along with us, will not allow you to carry out the dictatorship. The SRS are leaving the O.R. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16241	What about the explanation for the breach of the Rules of Procedure? You're not looking? I only owe it a short while to give an explanation, even though the MPs don't seem to be in the O.R. So, I gave a measure to Parliamentarian Tomislav Nikolic on the basis of Article 103, and because of the violation of Article 101, which he says - it is not permitted to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of others. I did it during the session, there was no interruption. It was a quorum determination, and a member of the 95th says the National Assembly president interrupts the work of the National Assembly when he determines the lack of quorum at a session of the National Assembly until the quorum is secured. So I didn't interrupt the session, the session was in progress, and we had a quorum. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16242	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Assembly is, in spite of everything, a serious place, but we'll take this as a New Year's concession from the SRS. I believe we'll work easier in their absence. Unfortunately, this is so proposed, in Article 81, that we make a decision, which would move the deadline for ending today's work day, and thus try to fully respond to our obligations, to at the same time deprive ourselves of the obligations of tomorrow's work. So, before us is the end of this agenda point and another agenda point, which is the choice and resolution of judges. I think that, through consultations with the heads of parliament, we can end the debate on amendments, then discuss the last item of the agenda and thus end the parliamentary session this year. Please understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16243	We're continuing our work. National MP Pal Shandor has tabled an amendment proposing... Oh, let me put the motion to the vote. I'm sorry. I put the motion put forward by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. For 108, against 35, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, a total of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of MP Cedomir Jovanovic to extend the working time. National MP Pal Shandor has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 9a be added after article 9. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16244	Dear colleagues, I am inclined to withdraw the amendment, not because I am giving up on it, but because my amendment is not complete, as it could and should have been. What's this about? I was not authorized by the Serbian Academy of Sciences and some other institutions on which there is a special law, to propose an interpretation under two ministries, meaning science and education and culture, those total sums on the items, that there is a budgetary obligation. Therefore, if we would accept this amendment in the form that I have proposed to SANU and others, on which there is also a special law, might be unsatisfactory. However, I am inclined to have a conversation about it and to have Mr. Secretary say what he thinks about the amendment. To me, it's a very close way of explaining and presenting certain items made by the Ministry of Agriculture, where, by the points, I think in the total sum of 1-17, sees in particular what it will be used for. So I would even suggest, even though the argument is not an integral part of the law to be published, but it is an integral part of the law that is in the procedure, that on page 46, this explanation reads as follows: "Through the programme of scientific and research work, financial assistance will be provided to the scientific and research activities of SANU and the Matika of Serbia, in accordance with the Law on Scientific and Research Work (and these are all other institutes and all other institutions), the Law on the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts and the Law on the Matika of Serbia". Then that's very precise. Therefore, if Mr. Minister is inclined to think like this and to interpret those items on which I have put the amendment, I would be willing to withdraw that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16245	I don't know what the slope means, so you're not pulling the amendment? The word has a finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic. I apologize, according to the Rules of Procedure, after Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16246	I'd say we still don't have constitutional practice where differences show up and where they don't show up. According to some criteria, there are some other institutions where there is law. For example, Hilandar, Sremski Karlovci, was shown for the 2002 budget, but we do have two institutions of invaluable importance for our country. It's the Serbian Academy of Science and the Serbian Mother. Simply, this methodology in many ways reduces this number of institutions that appear, but shows much more precise purposes. I am very happy to accept Mr. Sandor's proposal, and we will supplement, in the text he suggested, the interpretation of this law, and I hope that he will withdraw that amendment afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16247	I find that MP Pal Shandor has withdrawn the amendment to Article 9. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16248	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, yesterday, at the beginning of the session, you were given an explanation of the Committee on Finance, which took over the authority of this assembly and concluded that, for example, Mr Pal Shandor had the right to add a new member of the 9a, and that 11 Socialist Party MPs, who had the same technology from 9b to 9j, had no right to explain their amendments to this budget. The debate led by the Committee on Finance said that members of the Socialist Party, the applicants of these amendments, had abused the work of this assembly, wanted to tighten the debate, not to allow this assembly to end, etc. If a member of the DOS coalition does so has the right to do so, it is not said anywhere that the Rules of Procedure has been broken. So this is in line with the Rules of Procedure, and what the members of the Socialist Party have done is an absolute violation of the Rules of Procedure. It has been said that Article 143 has been broken. The Rules of Procedure on the work of this assembly, although I couldn't read it in the text, I guess we're reading different texts, and we have the same rules of procedure, and I couldn't read where the Socialist Party MPs broke it. I have just insisted, along with Mr Zoran Novakovic, that we find where members of the Socialist Party have violated the Rules of Procedure on the work of this assembly. I must say that here is absolutely in the application of a double archin and the right to speak from the authorities whoever they want, and when you are in opposition, besides the Rules of Procedure and there are limits to God's will. Yesterday you voted in favour of the Socialist Party's MPs in violation of the Rules of Procedure. You have now voted and determined that the MP from the DOS has not broken. You've made your point. It doesn't matter whether he gave up or not, he explained his amendment, and we were denied the right to explain it and to give it up. So we had no right to give up. Our right has been taken from the Finance Committee. Although we have opposed it, it is obvious that the wishes of the majority here do not apply to you either to this Rules of Procedure, which you have proposed and voted for the third time. I must say, there's been a breach of Rules of Procedure here, Articles 139 and 143.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16249	Mr. Tomic, we've already made this decision. So, on the conclusion of the Finance Committee, and pursuant to Article 143, MPs who are members of the same parliamentary group can only submit one amendment to one member of the bill. Mr Pal Shandor is the only member of the parliamentary group and has submitted one amendment before the parliamentary group. You have submitted to the same article under a, b, v, g, d, d, more amendments, which means that this does not comply with Article 143. So you could only submit a proposal to add one new member, not more. I ask the Members of Parliament to plead with the vote. For 39, against 96, with four abstentions, they did not vote 24 out of 163 MPs. I find no harm to the Rules of Procedure following the remarks of MP Dragan Tomic. Right on line, MP Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16250	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for the sake of truth and understanding, I once asked, and once again I will repeat. My name is Zoran D. Novakovic, to be different from some other Novakovics. I'll mention one later, and that's Goran Novakovic, who has big problems today, and I won't mention the other. This D. to distinguish, it's from Father Dragoljub. So yesterday, on the Finance Committee, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, which we brought here, were drastically broken. I asked yesterday for the right to issue an opinion on two amendments or, in my opinion, the Rules of Procedure allow it. However, the law, or wrongly, has decided on all this. I don't want to elaborate on it right now. I respect Mr. Sandor, but to say that at this point, it is far more important, in my opinion, that we know that there is almost an emergency energy situation in our country, given that reductions of four hours have been introduced. I have already asked Mr. Minister to explain to us whether there has been a budget violation of what I asked him about, related to the mule and the export of electricity, and if the power reduction of this day is 12 hours and threatens the collapse of the energy system, take it very seriously, with enormous, inconsequential consequences, please the gentleman who says he is not in charge, but is a member of the Management Board of the Oil Industry of Serbia and for 30,000 compensations, Mr. Stanko Kovacevic, that he at least tries to explain, since I expected to come out on the replica of Mr. Naumov, who is chairman of the Administrative Board of the Elektroprivred Serbia. As a National MP and a member of the Serbian Unity Party MP, I am very responsible for saying that the reduction is very serious and that the reduction level is such that it can be prevented from stopping exports from TE Novi Sad to Albania and Macedonia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16251	Right on line, MP Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16252	MP Zoran D. Novakovic presented information before the break that Serbia's oil industry has given 130,000 tonnes of mules to a foreign company and thus Serbia's budget is damaged for paying taxes and taxes. I want you to know that a mule is not an excise product. And the truth about 130 thousand tonnes is this: a foreign company bought a mule from the NIS -- because we have in the Refinery in Pančev surpluses of maput, so it comes into question the process of production and continuity -- given by Toplani Novi Sad. The Novi Sad Toplana converted that mule into electricity, a foreign company that received electricity from the bought mule exported abroad and thus brought triple benefit to our country. First, the oil industry of Serbia earned five million dollars. Secondly, it was processed in our heat, and thirdly, it was heated by Novi Sad in the process of producing electricity.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16253	The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16254	Dear fellow Members of the People, as the chairman said, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. - to delete Article 10(2)'s position. This is why - by eradicating the position of the 2nd member, it would avoid the possibility and the government's right to take charge of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is the next - member of the 10th, it is foreseen that the government is responsible for the implementation of the budget. That's what you say in attitude one. Paragraph 2 states: "The government may, during the implementation of the budget, alter the purpose of the funds set out in the budget for individual users". It touches the essence of the budget itself. So, the government has the power to change the items and implement the budget's reschedulings. What, then, is budgeting for use? What, then, is also a member of the 11th law, which says that commitments towards budget users are carried out in proportion to the budget revenues achieved. "At the burden of budgets, users can assume commitments to the amount determined by the budget for individual expenditures. Budgetary users may use funds allocated by this law only for the purposes for which, at their request, funds have been transferred to them. "So these two members are in mutual cohesion. Article 11 provides for a way of spending, a way of using budget funds, and a member of the 10th gives the government the right to make changes in the budget. Does this mean that, for example, Mr Covic, in addition to 920 and some million, besides 500 million from the federal government, will be able to receive more funds for the needs of southern Serbia or Kosovo; or other budget users. The minister also mentioned here that we now have transparently shown items in use, for example, for the first time in the judiciary, where several articles and several articles state how much court and which user from judicial authorities can use the funds, and then, in Article 13, the Minister of Justice commits that in section r, for chapters 4.1 to 4.9, determine how these funds will be used. So what's this autonomy look at? What is then looked at by the authority of this high home to determine the budget, when the Government can change the objectives between the two sessions; and even these are incurring the problem of budget rebalancing, because no one has the need to rebalance the budget if that authority is given to the Government by this position of Article 10(2) of the proposed law. For these reasons, I have suggested that the position of the 2nd member be deleted and that it remain only - that the government is responsible for the implementation of the budget. That was the purpose and purpose of my amendment. Normally, I know that the amendment will be rejected, as well as the amendments I've submitted to the Excise Act, to the Tax Act, not because of the cheese, I'm not Mickey-maus. But what to do, the people were denied, and here are some privileges they had, and the government didn't even consider the amendment of the MPs, but it all ends up on the already famous Finance Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16255	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP Dragan Tomic, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16256	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, why has this amendment of the SPS MPs been submitted? I must say that over the last year, several times, from this pay phone and through the means of public information, the previous government has been accused of unintended use of funds. It is now given the right of the Government to reroute funds that have been allocated to individual budget users. We did not get an answer which is the purpose of the agencies, what is their goal and what they are improving in the work of certain ministries, or whether that means, when the budget rebalances for the next two or three months, just shifting funds, or whether this budget will go to a 300 billion figure. If we have found that Serbia's economy is where it is, meaning in a slight decline, especially the electricity of these days, even though we have warned from this pay phone, and you have warned among yourselves that this situation is not good, we now have the opportunity to hear that electricity is being exported to Albania, that energy reserves are being sold, and in the least, at least that energy minister would have to resign because of what is going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16257	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 39, against 110, the abstentions, did not vote 214, a total of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 21 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 10th amendment. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 35, against 113, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21, a total of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic, Dusan Ilic and Predrag Mijailovic. The amendment will be explained by MP Dusan Ilic, otherwise the Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16258	Dear colleagues, Law on Government, Article 14, I will read it: "The government reports to the National Assembly on its work, and especially on policy-making, law enforcement, other regulations and general acts, the achievement of the development plan, the spatial plan and the implementation of the Republic's budget. The government reports to the National Assembly when requested by the National Assembly or by its own initiative and at least once a year." Since the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the stable majority supporting the Government of the Republic of Serbia of 131 MPs, have not found it appropriate to request or submit a report, we have proposed an amendment that would add a new position to Article 10 after Article 2 of Title 2, which reads: "The government is obliged to submit at the end of each quarter to the National Assembly a report on spent budgets containing data on end-users." We believe that this amendment would be legally required by the government to report on the implementation of this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16259	Thank you. A representative of the DOS parliamentary group, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16260	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's a mild misunderstanding, given that the resolution ministries have been regularly forwarding their reports to the relevant assembly committees. It is also the right of an MP to request a report at any time. If you are active in the work of the congregation’s working bodies, you will see that, in accordance with not the obligation, but as a rule, the resolution ministries have forwarded the reports to the committees annually. Some have been discussed. I remind you, let's say, of a report by the Ministry of Finance or a quarterly report from the Ministry of Finance. So it is a procedure that is respected and on that side of criticism that is addressed to us, as a parliamentary majority, is actually not sustainable, because it is not based on arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16261	He has the word Mr Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16262	As noted by Mr Jovanovic, Article 14. The law, which Mr Ilic stated, at any moment obliges the Government to submit a report on all the laws, on the enforcement and enforcement of all the laws you have passed, and in particular on this budget law. I can say that every time asked for it, we respected it. The last time was what it was, however, and was to be found in the light of this law, on the implementation of the revenue side of the budget this year. So this amendment seems to me to be legally out of line, because there is a Article 14. The government law. If this practice were to take place, then all the laws that you vote on should be foreseen in which rhythm and how the Government should report to the Assembly on their application. I think it's better to have it systemically arranged, in one place, as it was done in the Government Act, and there will be additional things at the moment of the debate on the law on the budgetary system, which you have and which you already have. I therefore propose not to vote in favour of this amendment, not because it has any desire to hide it, but rather arranged in one other place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16263	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) In that case, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 32, against 87, a abstentioned one, did not vote 43, a total of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. The representative of the applicants of the amendment is not in the O.R. The Finance Committee has not accepted the amendment. Does anyone else, authorized to debate, answer for a word? No, I don't. ) In that case, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 26, against 96, the abstentions were not voted 37, out of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. The Finance Committee has not accepted the amendment. The representative of the applicants of the amendment is not in the O.R. Does anyone else, authorized to debate, answer for a word? No, I don't. ) In that case, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 22, against 113, a abstentioned one, did not vote 24, out of a total of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic, Dusan Ilic and Predrag Mijailović The amendment was adopted by the Committee on Finance and by the Government, at the meeting of the committee, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. The Finance Committee has not accepted the amendment. The representative of the applicants of the amendment is not in the O.R. Does anyone else, authorized to debate, answer for a word? No, I don't. ) In that case, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 22, against 109 abstention, one did not vote 24, out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Stankovic and Borisvoje Drakulovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted the amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The applicants are withdrawing the amendment. ) The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. The Finance Committee has not accepted the amendment. The representative of the applicants of the amendment is not in the O.R. Does anyone else, authorized to debate, answer for a word? No, I don't. ) In that case, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 21, against 112 abstentions, there was no vote of 23, out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. The Finance Committee has not accepted the amendment. The representative of the applicants of the amendment is not in the O.R. Does anyone else, authorized to debate, answer for a word? No, I don't. ) In that case, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 15, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 26, out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Cvetkovic, Dusan Ilic and Predrag Mijailovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16264	Dear colleagues, this is the last amendment to this agenda item submitted by the DSS MPs. As so far, I will make one of the constructive proposals on behalf of the DSS MPs. DSS MPs were, together with representatives of a stable majority supporting the government, active participants in drawing up this budget. I would like to thank Mr. Minister on behalf of the health, justice and on behalf of the Commissioner for Refugees for the amendments he has accepted. At the same time, I want to thank him for a good argument for those amendments he has not accepted. This amendment is due to one of the amendments that were not accepted in the previous debate, so I will take this constructive step and speed up the vote of this reform budget: I will give up this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16265	The applicant for the amendment shall withdraw the amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Culibrk. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not in the O.R. The word comes from MP Tomic, a representative of the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go, colleague Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16266	National MP Marko Culibrk proposed two positions in his amendment: one, in which he cited a figure of 6 billion dinars for the incentive of exports; another, where it is found to be in point 2 of point 441-subsidy for the incentive of exports. I have to draw the line again and say, regardless of your previous position to refuse the amendment which lists the amount of funds necessary for the promotion of exports, we said that it is necessary to do so in those areas where production growth has been observed. That's where you think about the previous year, we've realized that this budget is restrictive. The economy will go down. You agreed with that, so I have to remind you again to consider whether it's good for the Serbian economy. I know you're in a hurry to get this over with today, and I get the impression that nobody cares about these things. The unions shut up, now she's left a concern on the directors. I must say that the situation is not great, that we can behave like this in the Republic Parliament, that we ignore those facts, even though we spoke to these arguments yesterday afternoon and today during the afternoon debate. We didn't hear the counterarguments or that someone came out to explain that it wasn't. I remind you again that the Serbian economy cannot withstand this unless there is an export subsidy. This kind of dumping according to the course of stamps that you hold we understand. Give the means to stimulate exports, because we can't have such a imbalance between imports and exports, since we export semi-products, semi-factories, to export some finished products, to destimulate exports, that there are no loans that are export-oriented. There's a lot of credit in banks that are focused on imports, on easy and fast profits. Serbia is not even such a small market, Serbian businessmen have to work a lot, we have spring, we have a big agricultural set waiting for us. Some of them are going to make big money again, and they're not going to pay extra profit. Please consider whether this is a good thing to impose additionally on the population and citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16267	I thank my colleague, Tomic. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) If no one answers for a word, I am putting the amendment to the vote. There are no abstentions for 21, against 119, 15, out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group. The Finance Committee has not accepted the amendment. The representatives of the applicants of the amendment are not in the O.R. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? (No). In that case, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 16, against 119 abstentions, 17 of the 152 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16268	The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petrovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted the amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16269	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 17. The proposal for this law is said: "Incomes which have been wrongly paid or paid in greater than the prescribed amount return to the burden of wrong or more paid revenue, if the specific regulations are not otherwise laid down. The revenue referred to in Article 1 shall be returned in amounts where they are wrongly or more paid in favour of the budget." The SPS MPs see the government's proposal as incomplete and unfair. They consider it necessary to supplement that member. In this regard, on behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to supplement Article 17 with one position to read: "If more current revenue has been charged by the competent authority than prescribed by the obligor, the debtor shall be reimbursed for the amount paid, increased by interest, at the rate charged for the untimely payment of those types of liabilities. Namely, the interest refund is made if the obligor has paid more current revenues by the competent authority than is prescribed, e.g. The competent authority has reached a solution that the debtor pays a double amount than he should have paid - tax, tax or other public income. So, when there's a mistake in making the bonder himself pay more, then no one else is to blame, he'll come back to him. If it's the competent authority's fault, then it's logical that, in addition to paying him back, he's accounted for and paid his interest. It often happens to reveal a mistake after a few months, and it returns the same amount that he has paid, without the right to increase interest. The law, for example, regulates on sales tax that the obligor has the right to repay him the basic debt and interest, and only if it is not executed within 8 days of the application, then the interest is calculated. And since it's the responsible authority's fault, it's nothing to anyone that his money is using for a long period of time. If we really want to establish the right budgetary financial discipline, then it is necessary to treat and protect the payer of budgetary revenues as well as the bodies working to determine the collection of budgetary revenues. Return more amount paid and pay interest on the off-balance sheet, I stress when it comes to the competent authority's guilt, is satisfaction, moral and material, for the taxpayer. On the other hand, trust is created in society that everyone in the system is equal. Also, due to the concrete responsibility of this measure, raising the expertise and responsibilities of workers in the competent authorities working to determine and collect budgetary revenues would be achieved. It must not be allowed for anyone to be untouchable, and if he has sinned, the consequences shall be borne by the payer of public revenue. I really think it was logical for the government to accept this, it's perfectly normal and it puts the same relationship between the taxpayers and the beneficiaries of the budget revenues.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16270	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? The People's Councilman Dragan Tomic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16271	Dear Members of the People, no matter what you try to insult me, no matter what you're cynical and what in various ways, although it's all heard by the chairman in this assembly and never said a warning about it, don't think that you're going to throw me out of the loop and I'm not going to talk about the budget. I will speak, and how, because that is the position of the SPS parliamentary group and it will be spoken to the end. The SPS MPs read the budget very carefully, although they had only 20 hours at their disposal, submitted their amendments and tried to contribute and draw attention to those issues from which the government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to escape. And this amendment has its full meaning trying to both protect the state and the taxpayer. His wish is that unpaid and wrongly paid to the budget of this amendment is absolutely guaranteed and that the corresponding interest is paid. When we warned of the more serious and essential issues of this budget, which talk about the country's economic policy, we did not come across an understanding of the desire to understand Serbia's budget. The reasons for this year's budget economic policy will talk about you most, how you exercise power, how you have a relationship with your citizens and what your ultimate goal is. I think we have partly managed to explain to the citizens that much is unclear in this budget, and that citizens will not be taken care of but themselves. It is our desire to get to the elections as soon as possible, because the electoral will of citizens is clearly very different from that of October 5th last year.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16272	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 16, against 121, one abstention, 15 did not vote, a total of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pavlovic. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want to say? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16273	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, it has been an honor and pleasure for me to be the last participant in the debate on amendments submitted to the 2002 Budget Law, because this is the 18th member and other amendment proposals for this article. Whether it's my advantage or my handicap, I don't know, but I'm going to say what I was going to say and I'm going to say it. First, I'm going to make a general impression, which is that, no matter how anyone thinks about this matter, the session we're considering the budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2002 is still scheduled under disputed business conditions, but by the decision of the parliamentary majority DOS and DSS, it's declared regular and I have to respect it, no matter what he thinks. Likewise, all MPs, especially the MPs of the opposition parties that I belong to, the SPS MPs were thus brought into a rather delicate situation, not to say some difficult term, because during the night we had to study the proposed budget law for this year, as the most important act defining economic policy and financial policy in this year and propose our amendments. The fate of those amendments, I'll tell you about it later, is obvious. I must say that the reasons for the overall budget, even for the amendments submitted above all by the Prime Minister, Mr Djindjic and the distinguished minister, Mr Djelic, have breathed with several characteristics -- is always the previous power for many things, and also for this budget. Minister Djelic's climate, I say-- it won't be; I don't know how long it will be like that, while you're a minister. Secondly, it went to one narcissistic praise about Mr Djindjic and Mr Djelic, their contributions to the work of the government and what we have today, and I also have to say something called uncritical and unfounded optimism about this budget. Mr. Djelic, that's what we agree on. So, the impression is that, based on everything that's been said, this budget has to be adopted this way, because you have most of it, I admit, but I have to say it's known. Is that what you have to do or you promised, obviously that's how it's gonna be. How will it be to the people, about this - then. That is why you did not accept, ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentary majority, the proposal of the SPS MPs to include 11 proposals for the addition of Article 9, in which we did not ask for anything other than to put into the budget for which two and a half billion dinars will be spent, which is almost 12% of the budget, related to agencies, funds, directors etc. We believe, we felt, and I still think, that it was meant to come in and that the Assembly would declare it. With regard to Article 18 of the Budget Act, which I have submitted the amendment to, if you haven't read, to remind you, it's something that's not essential, it's form. Therefore, the purchase and sale of the transportation means of the republican authorities will be approved by the Serbian government. Requests for purchase and sale, with a preliminary opinion of the Republic Property Directorate, shall be submitted to the Government. The register of the purchase and sale of the means of transport referred to in Article 1 shall be maintained and reported annually to the Government of the Property Directorate. The competent authority for the registration of a vehicle, only with the written consent of the Republic of Slovenia to the registration of a vehicle. The government may, on a proposal from the Directorate, redistribute the means of transport. So, ladies and gentlemen, is this for the budget law, is this the essence of the law, Mr. Minister? It's not. Why did I suggest? I suggested that this member be deleted because he defines operational affairs and technical issues of government work, Directorates and some other bodies, which are regulated by some other acts. What would happen to me, to the parliamentary group that I belong to and all MPs matter? It would be important, and the point would be that you put in article 18 (give me just 15 seconds) which vehicles will be acquired, for which organs, how much it will cost, the Assembly will decide. This is how you gave everything to you and the government, that discretionary right. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given what I said, given that the Committee on Finance, chaired by Mr Bogdanovic, rejected this proposal without reason and given that the Committee, chaired by Mr Vesic, had not even made a statement, since the Government of the Republic of Serbia had not even considered and held a position on this, in a sign of protest and disagreement with this relationship, I am withdrawing the amendment and I do not give you the right to vote on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16274	I find that MP Slobodan Pavlovic withdrew the amendment that he submitted to Article 18. The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone sign up for a word? National MP Dragan Tomic, as a representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16275	I know it's hard to stay here alone against all of you, but that's the fate of the opposition. Just one fact, since it is the end of the debate, I ask on behalf of the parliamentary group, on the basis of Article 82, to establish the quorum and to know whether there is an interest in this majority of DOS, these 131 MPs, that this budget be adopted as a whole. Please establish the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16276	You actually checked in with the Rules of Procedure? I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I am putting on the vote for the amendments tabled by the SRS parliamentary group on Article 18. For 6, against 131 abstentions, there were no 6, a total of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have completed a review of the Bill's proposal in particular and a decision on amendments, does the Proposer's representative want a word? Here, the word has a finance minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16277	I'm aware that you have one more item on the agenda, but I'd still like to say before the vote, perhaps briefly repeat some of the key points of this proposed law. This is another budget of savings and survival. We cannot be too proud of him because he is simply a picture of the situation in Serbia. As I noted, of course, Serbia's picture of many things today is not favourable, but whoever was in Serbia in January this year, then in March when the budget for this year passed and came back in December, could see that the situation, in many ways, was a little better. The next year will not be easy, but I hope that all those who want true reforms in our country and who want to win over our people will vote in favour of this law in particular and will allow this adoption to continue the progress and this time that we have set out. It will not be significant in terms of the rapid increase in the standards of our citizens because it simply cannot be driven from one economy, which will take a few more years to restore its productivity and return to various markets. However, this is the real progress because it will be based on real, real sources and will not, on the one hand, fail budget users, and on the other hand it will put one imposition that is acceptable, because nothing here has been increased according to what happened this year, on the economy and on the citizens. I'd just like to mention a few key points in this budget before you go to the vote. First, in the process of passing this law, I would only like to apologize again to the National Assembly in the name of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure, this must not be a practice, and in case you vote on the budget system law, which is now proposed to you, you will see that the draft law of this kind cannot come to you after 15 November. So November 15th will be the last term. At the same time, I would like to say that in these circumstances, however, we could also conclude in this debate that the new methodology, according to which this budget was made, allows for much greater, to say that post-modern word again - the transparency of these public finances. So what used to be in several items, by some other cross-sections, is now very visible, from travel to material costs, for all organs. They repeat here, followed by such an engagement that at the moment of voting of the budget system law, I hope it will not be after February of this year, to deliver to the National Assembly all accounts for this budget, to the fifth or sixth decimals of the GFS, where you will be able to get up to several hundred thousand dinars or several million to determine what is predicted. The second thing that has been a lot of debate for the last few days is the size of this budget and the burden it represents on the income side for collecting taxes and contributions, as well as on the dissipating side. As I have already noted, it is certain that we are not in the most favourable situation. When we know that we're a country with $1,200 per capita, according to next year's outflow, we should be about 10% less burdening the economy on both income and distribution. We, however, are unable to do so because next year we have these three new items or significantly increased in paying foreign debts. We can't both ditches and money, if we want to continue lending our economy and our infrastructure, we have to start paying back our debts. We have a significant increase in pensions, and I think you'll all agree that it's very important for these millions and 200, and it looks like soon a million and 300 of our fellow citizens, to ensure regular and real pensions; and that's why this national effort is necessary. The third paragraph, it's a restructuring of the economy and banks. If they didn't, they'd be less harvested and spent less, but basically our economy is unable to separate economic and social functions from its own. The state must help to care for employees in the forms that are being restructured and, which is just as important, in modernising equipment for our businesses. That is why the third item exists and therefore this budget is as large as it is, but next year one of the priorities of this government will be optimization of public spending. We want to set ourselves an ambitious goal - to reduce the share of public spending in gross national income by 5%, i.e. interventions in social production for the next few years. As for the deficit, there were a lot of questions about whether this deficit was appropriate and there were questions about two sub-questions. The first question was, are we going to cover this deficit? Decidantly, we'll be in a much better situation next year than this year. Because as far as privatisation is concerned, here we are in a day or two going to know the fate of these three cement plants; we have a series of good businesses. And, as I noted, for those on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, 50% of the sales revenue will go to infrastructure projects in the AP Vojvodina. For everything else - international loans i.e. World Bank. As far as donations are concerned, half has already been identified and something comes as the European Union's macro-financial support, and in which week you will see one proposal for a counter-guarantee law, which will enable and speed it up. The second question revolved around independence, I'll return to that at the end of my presentation, but let's see if our country enters some kind of dependence on abroad through this deficit. Of course, the answer is no, but I'll get back to that in conclusion. Priorities in the budget, some health workers have talked about it, it's obvious that what's called priority can only be shown in shades. It's not possible, except for 3,000 judges, to secure a much higher salary. But tomorrow, I expect that in a meeting with the health and education unions, we do what I think no government of the Republic of Serbia has done, and that is to pave the way for an increase in the pay base for a whole year. When this is done and proven to be a priority in the budget at that point, then we need to move to negotiations on all other things: material costs, additional stimulation that we can find and all that matters to these professions. That would be very important. Of course, in these scarce resources, thanks to your vote on excise duties, there was money for roads; also for the Health Fund. It is one dinar for health care thanks to the group of the Democratic Party of Serbia, their amendment will increase the amounts for that purpose. To conclude, if we look at what the budget allows, it allows us to survive on a real basis and move on. Public finances will maintain balance, provide a normal system and conditions for the business and life of our citizens. The priorities of next year from this budget are, of course, double. One is the improvement of the standard of our citizens' lives, the elimination of taxes on food and medicine, as early as January 1st. The first meetings we had with the profession are already suggesting that some food will be cheaped even by 35%, but about that -- then, that's what we're expected to do on January 2nd or 3rd. The other thing is a further fight against corruption. In this budget, you also have funds for management to fight organised crime in the MUP, you have the means for a council to fight corruption and funds for an inter-resor group, which through a dense network will ensure a very fast functioning of the state. In a few days, a cigarette smuggling was seized and interrupted, which may well have been established, had a patronage in the Yugoslav Army. It's the first time something has been done here and for the first time in that institution that shows that no one is untouchable and that everyone has to respect this law. This gives me a lot of courage to secure these revenues next year, if there is any risk in the budget to secure, like this year, these incomes from taxes and contributions, and behind that is the development of the economy. We see here that we are on track to fight smuggling, organised crime and other unfavourable phenomena in our society. It has often broken down here whether Serbia today is independent and proud. The question was how it was possible for Serbia to be independent and proud when it envisions a deficit, is it not an addiction? The answer is, of course, no. The biggest dependence is when 10 years of public finances do not predict, as was not foreseen in the 2000 budget, nor 11 salaries and 11 pensions. The biggest addiction is when in 10 years, two hyperinflation is performed, a robbery against our people. The greatest injustice and addiction of our citizens is when everyone doesn't pay taxes and contribute to the same arch. And the biggest, of course, addiction is when inappropriate politics, drilling into the chest, is driven by a suicide policy, which is not in proportion to some resources and some allies. It led to a proud people, with a very sacred history, succeeding from themselves, thank God for a short while, to make Europe's boogeyman, unworthy of course; so that people also managed to lose their most faithful allies. We have come to an end with this, and this budget shows that Serbia will be a country that will receive, finally, gold medals this year. Serbia is at the heart of interest, Serbia that will put new pressure on all countries in the region to go as quickly as possible, Serbia that will make its dynamics open to us too. In other words, it seems to me that economic power, the order of society, respect for the legal rights of all, and the broad layers of our society, are the best way for Serbia to be independent and proud. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16278	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I am voting on the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2002 as a whole. For 134, against 6, a abstentioned one, was not voted by three, out of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly passed the draft budget law for 2002. Before we move to the fifth item of the agenda, just one finding. You have accepted the resignation of Ljubomir Mirkovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Administrative Committee on the examination of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88(2) and Article 2(3). The law on the election of MPs finds the end of MP Ljubomir Mirkovic's mandate on the day of his resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. Law on the election of MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the time of his election, to MP Ljubomiru Mirkovic, elected from the electoral list of the Serbian Unity Party - Prof. Borislav Pelevic. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. We move on to the 5th point of the agenda: – Stop the function of the Committee on Justice and Administration, and this is: Proposal for a decision on the termination of the duties of the President of the Court of Justice; Proposal for a decision on the termination of the Judge's office of the Judges of the General Jurisdiction, with additions to the draft decision of 26 December 2001; Proposal for a decision on the termination of office of the President of the Public Prosecutor; Proposal for a decision on the selection of the Republic Public Prosecutor; Proposal for a decision on the election of the Judges and President of the General Jurisdiction, with amendments to the draft decision of 27 December 2001; Proposal for a decision on the choice of the President of the Court of Justice in Uzic, with amendments to the draft decision of 27 December this year. You also made proposals for decisions made by V.D. The draft decision on the election of the district attorney in Nis, the draft decision on the election of deputy district attorneys, the draft decisions on the selection of municipal public prosecutors from 25 October and 19 December this year and the proposal for a decision on the election of deputy public prosecutors. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Management on the examination of the proposal for decisions submitted by the S.A.P.D. a republican public prosecutor for the selection of public prosecutors. When setting out a proposal for candidates for judges of individual courts, a member of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Branko Pavlovic, issued an opinion. I propose that all proposals for a decision on the termination of functions, the resolution and the selection of judicial officers be carried out in a joint single search, and that the National Assembly be particularly clear on each proposal for a decision. I'm putting a motion to vote and I'm asking the MPs to come forward with a vote. Yes, that is to say - individual motions for a decision, and the disputed candidates will be voted in particular. [[Sagar.]] For 106, against 10, the abstention of two, was not voted 26, a total of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal to conduct a joint single search. I remind you, according to Article 157(3), Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs. I'm asking the MPs' groups to report speakers for discussion. Consent to Article 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on proposals for decisions on termination of office, resolution and selection of judicial officials. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Here you go. There's a word from MP Dr. Dragore Hiber, chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16279	The new laws governing the area of justice enter into force next January. Hence, it is probably the last time that the Committee for Justice and Administration of the Republic of Serbia makes the National Assembly proposals for appointments and resolutions from judicial functions. The proposals you received were the result of almost three months of work by the Committee, which preceded a competition for the selection of judicial holders, a competitive procedure at the Ministry of Justice and local self-government, as well as statements by courts colleges throughout Serbia. The Justice and Administration Committee has made the National Assembly a series of proposals for choice in judicial functions. I'll let myself say a few words here about those who are most important. In the first place, this is a proposal to elect a Republic Public Prosecutor. At the initiative of the Association of Prosecutors of the Republic of Serbia, the Justice and Administration Committee decided by a large majority to propose to the National Assembly that Mr Sinisa Simic be elected as the Republic Public Prosecutor. Mr Simic is the deputy district attorney in Belgrade and spent his entire working life in the prosecution. The Committee on Justice and Administration is convinced that he has sent a proposal to the National Assembly that resembles a high - professional and moral man. A Supreme Court of Serbia judge, a number of district court judges and a serious number of young people were also proposed, the most common judge of municipal courts throughout Serbia. I will remind you that this assembly, due to its retirement and on its own request, has resolved a considerable number of judges, almost 200. The proposals ahead of you should allow normal work of the Serbian judiciary until the High Judicial Council begins its work and is in a position to refer its first proposals to the National Assembly. Most of the proposed candidates for judicial functions are the result of consensus on the Committee by voting in favour or abstention, but there are also proposals on which controversy, disagreements and decisions have been made by the majority. I must say that even then, when we disagreed on the Committee, the Committee worked with a high dose of tolerance and mutual respect. At the end of this part of the work and this kind of work of the Committee, I would like to thank all the members of the Committee for that. Finally, there's a small number of motions here to get rid of judicial functions on their own request or to retire. Also before the National Assembly are proposals from the official of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office to elect a number of prosecutorial office holders, with which the Committee agreed. I would take this opportunity to express my gratitude to Dr Nedic, who has been doing this job for six months very successfully, if Serbia gets a new Republic Public Prosecutor from today. Thank you. I hope these proposals are adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16280	Thank you. Does MP Branko Pavlovic, who issued an opinion at the Committee session, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16281	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, there are over 120 proposals for the selection of judges in this package of proposals, in most cases there are very high-quality judges or professional associates who are now making career progress and we choose them for judicial functions or for more duties within the framework of the judiciary. I singled out my opinion because I felt that proposals for the Belgrade District Court included a number of judges who were not good enough to make progress; in the case of a candidate for the President of the Court, it was absolutely a candidate who does not deserve the post; and in some other cases there are other problems. Since I realized that now we're all very tired, that it's too serious material and you wouldn't be able to follow me, I've narrowed it down to only two cases, which I want to single out and I don't think the National Assembly should support them under this proposal. That will also mean my request to declare them individually. One proposal is Mr. Omer Hadziomerovic, for the Belgrade District Court, the current Judge of the Third Municipal Court in Belgrade, for the District Court; the second is Mr. Radoslav Bacovic, for the president of the Fifth Municipal Court in Belgrade. First I will say something about Mr. Radoslav Baćovic. You know, the basic thing about each of the staffing is that you're rewarding those who deserve to make progress, especially when one of the judges becomes president of that court, because then he has to be the person who showed by his work that he's more valuable and better than his colleagues. Mr. Radoslav Baćovic did not. If you look at his results in nine months this year and his results in the past year, you will see that in the quality of his work Mr. Baćović is 80% below average. So the problem with our judiciary is that the average values are unsatisfactory. That's the problem. If the average values were good, we wouldn't have a problem in the judiciary. The average values in the judiciary are bad. He is the culprit, and when it comes to criminal justice in the Belgrade judiciary, nine months this year has never been worse. This is the worst result ever found by the percentage of the abolished decisions. Unfortunately, Mr. Baćovic, in those two years, 80% below average, and in this year, even over 80%. The trouble is, he's weak and by all criteria that measure value, which measures the urgency of a judge, I won't bother you with what it means, but you have something and what is the coefficient of urgency, one aggregate indicator, you have the number of subjects in the work and you have what it is to solve judgment. You know, it's extremely important with the guilty that he solves things with a verdict, and not in another way, because in another way it can be that it's out of date, and that's why the proceedings are suspended. By all criteria, he is 20% below the average judge, for a period of nine months in 2001 and 2000. When you translate what it means to be 20% below average, then it means that he does one day a week less than the average judge, and the average judge is alarmingly unsupervised. Finally, when it comes to Mr. Baćovic, he had a situation in his case at the beginning of this year, in which he was in charge, a man was in custody for more than 20 days, without legal solution, and his negligence. As President of the Court, it should be kept in mind that such things do not happen in court at all, and they happened in his case. The whole story practically surfaced the moment they told the Belgrade County Prison -- well, here, for the fourth day there's no solution, come on, people, act, and then it was seen that he didn't actually do it. Unfortunately, I do not think Mr Baćovic should be supported by this assembly in any way. As far as Mr. Omer Hadjiomerovic is concerned, I can only tell you this now - I know he is the chairman of the board of directors of the Society of Judges, but believe me, in my understanding, that is the problem of the Society of Judges. In fact, he's professional enough and valuable enough, but there are other elements that absolutely exclude him as a possible candidate for any advancement, or at least some other actions would have to eliminate him from the judiciary at all, but what this assembly can do is at least prevent his career progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16282	Do the representatives of the parliamentary groups report for a word? There is a word from MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16283	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, we have before us a proposal from the Committee on Justice and Administration and a distinguished colleague, Mr Dragor Hiber said this is the last time that the Committee on Justice and Administration is forming a proposal, since a package of law has been adopted in the area of the judicial system, which provides for the establishment of a High Council for Justice. That's exactly what I want to talk about. What is the hurry, if a package of law in the field of justice comes into force from January 1st and if the law provides for the formation of a High Judicial Council, which should be held in the narrow composition by members, but is envisaged, and the wider composition, where judges and prosecutors are professionally involved. Then why now, three or four days before 1 January, does the Justice and Administration Committee come out with such a large number of proposals for elections for certain judicial functions? You know, the current government, while the opposition, insisted that employees in the judicial system were colored party. Fortunately, with great pleasure, we can conclude that all the employees of the judicial system, to a large extent, worked with honor and honesty, but that just in the new authorities, many of them were exposed by the titles of the newspaper and by the resolute minister, that the party's new power was not satisfied with their judicial action. I cannot, as a member of the opposition in this House, fail to notice that the new government is using the last minute to enter a package of new laws in the area of the judicial system, to place on judicial functions those it trusts more in a party sense. I don't want to speak personally, and I want to say that we are very pleased that a package of judicial laws has passed, because they have prevented the Minister of Resistance from being re-elected, all of them from being re-elected, from couriers to judges. Because only then would it be a big cleanup on the party criteria. We believe that it is not the time and that it is simply not fair to the vast number of employees in Serbia's judicial system, and also to the proposed staff, that today, four days before the entry into force of the new legal solutions, but adopted in this assembly, there will be any elections, as well as those elected, and I do not want to enter into their names individually, because I deeply believe that there are people among them who want to perform their duties with honor and honesty, that they too will come into an unpleasant situation. They would certainly prefer it, as they deal with judicial, prosecutorial and other functions, if they were elected under the new law, where it is intended to do so by the High Council for Justice, precisely their older colleagues, more experienced, there is also that the chosen ones, as they say, begin to carry out their new duties. Therefore, our assessment is that this is the last move, the last attempt of those who have fiercely opposed the employees of the judicial system and sewed on to them the labels of party color, and in essence now, since they came to power, they have been staunchly pushing to find party associates and party insolents, the last attempt to push some of whom they believe are their party colors. I must say that under these pressures too - media and pressures from officials from the Government of the Republic of Serbia - now employees in Serbia's judicial system have shown high morality, sufficient high resistance to these pressures and willingness to do their job with honor and honesty. Because it's clear to them that tomorrow someone will watch what they did today or yesterday. Our proposal is that all of this material, which contains the inventions of individual collectives, individual courts, be delivered to the High Council for Justice; that it is formed by emergency procedure by 15 January and that, on the basis of the complete material available, the High Council for the Justice in the General Assembly, with professionals who have been proven in their work, verifies the proposals and chooses by new legal projects of these people who are here and who are not suspected; but simply, we consider them, for morals and reputations of the judicial system, that it is much better to be chosen according to legal projects that have already been adopted and which, from 1 January, are probably not four days in office and not four days before the 1st of January, such as under the door, that someone pushes the charter to be selected; and that they themselves carry that one word that most of them are probably not necessary. The attitude of our parliamentary group is that we will be abstentioned, because we do not want to question individual proposals, but we believe that it is unfair, according to these proposals, that four days prior to the entry into force of the laws adopted, adopted by a large majority in this assembly, the proposals that have been processed are prepared, so within 4 - 5 days, this newly formed High Council can also verify them. Perhaps the only current regime -- which represents itself expert, transparent, efficient, and so expert, transparent and efficient that within a year it failed to even end the holiday of November 29th -- thinks about what kind of agreed system it will take two years for it to form a High Council for Justice, and perhaps that's the only excuse for this kind of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16284	Thank you, Mr. Ivkovic. The words came from Justice and Local Self-Government Minister Mr. Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16285	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although the Ministry of Justice is not a pronoun of the choice of holders of judicial functions, I feel the need to appear before this Parliament because it is an elemental order. The previous time, when there was a debate on selecting legal holders, I couldn't do it, because I was at the Council of Europe in Strasbourg at the time, and I heard that I was famous and I saw it from the stenographic notes. I have to say that it's been almost a year, that there really wasn't any rematchism authorities or any shot by a judicial officer, because the fact that it's been so long is the best confirmation of what I'm saying. Otherwise, whether we want it or not, we need a lustration in the judiciary. Lustration has one religious mark as a semantic term. It means cleansing from sin. The various countries of Eastern Europe and various countries in transition have dealt with this delicate problem in various ways. If you could give me a little attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16286	Please listen to Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16287	Let me just tell you that many countries have passed lustration laws, which in one day have ceased to function for all the judges in that country, so that after that, a selection of those who met the basic criteria would be carried out in the coming days. These basic criteria were long spoken by Francis Bekon, which is that judges must possess expertise and conscience, moral unsuspecting. I have to say, and I've repeated it hundreds of times, that not all judges in this country, no matter what regime was in power, were corrupt, extended hands of the former regime, because that's not true. There may have been 10-15%, but, gentlemen, regardless of these resistances, those who participated in election commissions, who ended the electoral will of citizens, those who participated in mounted political processes, those who used themselves to perform judicial functions, those whose results to this extent are modest that they do not meet even the basic criteria objectively have nothing to seek in the judiciary. Be assured, that selection, that triage will be necessary constantly and always. This will not end with a more tonight's election of judicial officials, as the High Judicial Council will have to keep selecting the holders of judicial functions. To get to what Aristotle was saying, to go to the judge means to go to justice. I want to say one more thing; this is not an attempt to make at a small door at the last minute the selection of a number of judicial officials. For the simple reason that this procedure before the Committee on Justice and this selection, at the level of this committee, lasts almost two months. Before that, it was subject to various other agreements, agreements, choices, etc. The Justice Committee, in most cases, has achieved a lower or higher degree of consensus of unanimity, and the best confirmation that this selection was mostly adequate. I have one more thing to remind you: in all of this, the selection of all of these candidates was attended by the courts' colleges, behind the proposal of all the candidates are the courts' colleges and the presidents of the courts. Then it went through the Justice Committee. In the selection of all candidates, therefore in its own way, the role and participation were taken by the Supreme Court President, Mrs Leposava Karamarkovic. Since there is no interference of executives in the judiciary, it is something that is related to the legislative authority, which should be through the Committee on Justice and this Parliament to make this choice. In a few days, the High Council of Justice will be established, so first it needs to be established and a new competition should be called, time should pass, so it would take at least a few months. These are the essential reasons why the choice is being made is after that selection, which took a really long time and where no one has insisted on this candidate or that candidate. It is likely that, with valid arguments, a number of proposals will be removed at parliament's session, or will not be elected. It's perfectly normal. So there's no manipulation whatsoever. There's no bad intentions. The desire, therefore, is to go in the direction of a humane restoration of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16288	I thank Mr. Secretary. Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) In that case, I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4), they are in conformity with Article 89(4). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word with the order of MPs, submitted by the parliamentary groups of DOS, DSS and SPS. The first registered speaker is MP Zarko Obradovic, followed by MP Marko Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16289	Dear Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, has discussed the situation in the judiciary several times this year, and has chosen the holders of judicial functions, and what they are doing again today. I think the right time, at the end of this calendar year, and a year after last December's elections, is 11 months after the constitution of the legislative and executive authorities, to give one assessment of the state of justice and the construction of Serbia as a rule of law. We Socialists think that the situation in the judiciary is bad, extremely bad, and that human change will not change anything better, because there are systemic mistakes that need to be corrected before, so that the situation can be improved at all and Serbia will really start to build up as a legal state. About a year ago, only we Socialists and Mr Djindjic, the president of the Serbian government, knew what the judiciary would look like. To remind the forgetful, in his speech during the government's election, Mr Djindjic made it clear that the judiciary would be the same as the media and that the existing government would do everything to make it so. I must say that the Prime Minister, and other representatives of the executive government, have all worked very hard together to put the task in place. There have been countless statements by the executive authorities that have put direct pressure on the judiciary, on judges and prosecutors. They cannot even count the comments of the court decisions, the courtship of the trial, the public publication of the content of the applications submitted, the violation of the Constitution and the law and everything else that objectively reduced the level of judicial work and made it dependent on the executive authority. I must say, that's what the media and only the judiciary have contributed by their actions and inaction. We Socialists said less than a year ago that Serbia's citizen does not write well if there is a real sign of equality between the judiciary and the media; when it comes to the media, their work, their objectivity, independence, the accuracy of the information state, the disastrously, in Serbia, the government of media darkness, the media is in office of DOS, and it has proved that we were right. In media evaluations and what will happen to the judiciary, different public opinion surveys show that Serbian citizens share the assessment of the poor state of justice and that Serbia is far from being a legal state. We Socialists believe that the causes of the system nature, and until they are removed, any kind of human change, cannot change the existing state. Fellow MPs, how Serbian citizens believe in the rule of law, feel protected, be secure in the independence and impartiality of the judicial authorities, when representatives of the executive authorities announce their statements against whom applications will be filed, when it is said about the course and content of the investigations that the guilty have found guilty, that the defendant has admitted all other similar things. How do Serbian citizens believe in the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary, when, on the same day, five different media outlets are printed and through all electronic media, it can be felt that criminal charges have been filed against a certain person; when the content of that criminal report can be read and heard, and at the same time there is an official statement by the judge, who runs the case, that no one but the defendant and his lawyer can be familiar with the content of the application, and that the application has reached the public without his knowledge and for him an unknown way. What if citizens think of the rule of law, the work of the judiciary, when they see and hear what happens to detained persons. I'll just give you two examples. First, on the basis of one anti-constitutional decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the full co-operation of state authorities, Slobodan Milosevic, yes, yes, yes, The previous president of Serbia and Yugoslavia and the president of the SPS, has been sorted and extradited illegally to The Hague tribunal. [[growls]] He had... (President: Mr. Radovic, please stick to the subject. It's still on the agenda for a personal decision. After all, I have not heard your remarks about this. (President: Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to Ambassador Obradovic, and you, colleague Obradovic, please stick to the topic. So you're talking about the motion for a decision. ) At that time, he had the status of a detained person, over whom jurisdiction had exclusively an investigative judge and judicial authorities. By law, Milosevic could not be brought out of prison and implemented by other authorities. The investigating judge, who was directly responsible for the application of the detention measures, didn't say a word... (President: Mr. Obradovic, I really ask you one last time to talk about the motion for a decision, not the case of Mr. Milosevic. I just want to show you how the judiciary works. The D.A., and no one from the judiciary, has said or done anything about it. We also had a similar example with the detainees of Radet Markovic, who is... (President: Mr. Weaves, I give you a reminder. I've warned you several times internally to stick to the agenda, and you're consciously ignoring it, and I need to give you a heads-up. ) Another example is the prisoner of Radet Markovic, who, past the judge's decision, was taken out of prison, under which pressure was put to change his testimony... (President: Mr. Weaves, I give you a second warning. These examples have shown the work of investigative judges and the state of justice. At the same time, individual legal holders, the presidents of the courts, at consultations organised by different NGOs, speak highly of how laws should be respected, that people in the judiciary are not respected enough, that they are not consulted during certain legislative proposals, certain human resources, etc. To be respected, they must respect themselves and the work they do, respect the Constitution and the laws of Serbia, until they change, and until they adopt a new one, respond to obvious examples of violations of the Constitution and the law, and not to keep quiet, to show that they are truly independent and professional, rather than words. What Serbian citizens can say about the rule of law, when the assembly majority did not want to elect a Constitutional Court judge in 11 months, thus creating conditions for the court to exercise its basic function, which is to protect constitutionality and legality in Serbia. Of course, it's not an accident. We know, when there is no Constitutional Court, the anti-constitutional character of individual laws cannot be assessed, nor the constitutional character of the regulations under which the Government of the Republic of Serbia rules. What if Serbian citizens think of the rule of law, how judges work, judges who will be elected today and in the coming days, when a list of judges who only the minister found to be guilty of respecting the law is being made on a proposal by the minister of justice and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16290	Mr. Obradic, you forced me to give you two warnings. Once again, please stick to what's on the agenda. It is not on the agenda of the Justice Ministry's report, nor the report on the situation in the Serbian judiciary, but on the proposal for a decision, above all, of a personal character. If you have any opinion about the candidates, you take it out in the way he said it, say, Mr. Pavlovic or anyone. Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16291	Mr. Chairman, do you really think that the choice of people in the judiciary has nothing to do with the state of justice? If you think, then I don't know why we choose these judges today and why we chose them over the past few months. I know it is not pleasant to hear what is real in Serbia in the area of justice. But I really don't see any reason why you can't hear it for a congregation speaker, like it or not like it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16292	Mr. Obradovic, I don't mean to be a little pompous with you, but I have to say, you haven't treated what's on the agenda in a single word. I warn you, don't force me to apply the most rigid measures in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16293	In this way, by publishing a list of inadequate judges, a more inaugural new principle, so far unknown in Serbia's judiciary, that anyone implementing the law is guilty. I must say that in this way, the Serbian government has opened up space for every future government to create a condition for legal anarchy and lawlessness, in arbitrary claims and disagreements with the laws passed by the previous government. What do Serbian citizens think about the rule of law and how to make the judges we choose today feel secure in the work they do, when court decisions by the executive authority representatives comment, dispute, when judges themselves, also from the executive authorities, dispute in the public in terms of size and morality. Dear fellow MPs, while these, for the association system mistakes, have no hope that the situation in the judiciary will be good, nor that Serbia will be a legal state. There is no hope that any personnel change, such as those that we do today or those that the Assembly has already done, will mean anything to improve the situation in the judiciary. It is not surprising, therefore, that a number of judges whose profession is above their daily political interests, who do not want to be tried by political dictatorship, demand to leave the judges' office, go to lawyers or other jobs. In the end, as far away as we are from the rule of law and as political volunteerism exists in our country, we could hear last night. In fact, from Mr. Djindjic, Prime Minister, last night we heard that the co-operation is a condition for someone to be removed from the war crimes list, that is, from The Hague court. (Chairman: Mr. Radovic, please finish. ) The statement confirms two estimates that we Socialists have already made: that The Hague tribunal is a political formation... (Chairman: Mr. Radovic, I think you're really abusing my trust. All sentences so far had nothing to do with the subject of the agenda. Please finish. I don't share your opinion, but it's my right, as well as yours. (President: It is your right not to share. Second, the government of the Republic of Serbia's decision to kidnap Milosevic is politically motivated.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16294	The word is Mr. Ivkovic, head of the SPS parliamentary group, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so far we've had Calamity Jane at the chair, who's been withdrawing the warning. Now we've got Billy Kid. (President: Mr. Ivkovic, I give you a reminder. ) Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, you have violated Article 100(2), which says: "No one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, except the President of the National Assembly, and that is exclusively in the cases of the intended Rules of Procedure." We are currently here in the O.R. having a debate on the choice of legal holders. These judicial officials will not operate in the justice system of Budjumbura and Burundi, nor Jamaica, but will work in Serbia. The chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, explaining the choice of judicial holders, spoke clearly about the judiciary, about the needs of the judiciary to fill human resources as soon as possible. That's what the minister of justice used to say. They are allowed to speak of justice, and the system of justice, the fact that the investigative judge Cavlin remains without detainees, is not to be spoken. It's more of a talk about you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16296	I thank you, Mr. Ivkovic, and I will answer you. So I can't figure out how you're experiencing that I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. I was even extremely intolerant. Mr. Obradovic has not devoted a single word to what is actually the subject of the agenda. Secondly, if the speaker already allows himself to talk about the situation in the judiciary, the Serbian judiciary was told by the minister and the chairman of the board, not the Dutch or international ones, then I guess I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. I had the right to give a warning to a speaker who, despite the president's warning or the chairman's, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda. If you're not satisfied, I'll put you to the vote. Are you asking me to put it to a vote? You're looking, all right. So, I put to the vote Mr. Ivkovic's remarks, president of the SPS parliamentary group, that I hurt the Rules of Procedure in the treatment of MP Zarko Obradovic's resignation. For 17 (for the violation of the Rules of Procedure) against 89 did not vote 35, out of a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has concluded that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16297	Mr. Chairman, I have the right to reply to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and all I have said about the agenda. If the chairman doesn't understand, I'm really sorry, but that's not my problem anymore. I ask you one question: is the story of lustration on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament? What you, as chairman, have done about what the minister said, say whether it's okay or not and as chairman to introduce order.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16298	Mr. Obradovic, you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure and if you think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, please quote me a provision that I've violated. Are any of the heads of Parliament answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The second speaker is MP Marko Jaksic in a given order, followed by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16299	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, in 1996, I was on the list of the Together Coalition, election number 27 in Kosovo Mitrovica. At that time, more than 6,000 Cypriot votes were stolen somewhere in the election unit, when the election for president of the Republic of Serbia was held in 1997. More than 30,000 Shiparian votes were stolen. I'm telling you this because it was happening back then in that area. The motion to resolve Mr. Blago Jaksic and Mr. Miroslav Ivanovic, it seems to me, although late, was on the agenda. Both of the gentlemen mentioned were the first and only to leave one building in Kosovo, Mitrovica, otherwise in the entire part of the city. One of them transferred his district court to the King, and the other one left his judges alone. Normally, all court vaults were previously emptied and all the furniture was taken away. When the occupiers arrived, they found a fact-finding court. Why am I telling you all this and why am I telling you all this? This is what I'm telling you because somewhere four months ago, a request for both judges' resolution arrived. But then there were five, together with Vera Anic, Radisa Ljubanic and Vladimir Danilovac, both mentioned. Unfortunately, the assembly has arrived without these two, with a letter from Minister Vladan Batic, who says - the Committee on the withdrawal of the initiative to resolve the duties of the District Court President in Kosovo Mitrovica and the president of the Municipal Court for co-operation and consultation with the Co-ordination Centre. What's really the point of the whole story? The bottom line of the story is that he is a member of the Coordination Centre, Oliver Ivanovic, born brother of Miroslav Ivanovic, who through the Coordination Centre ends and has a practical impact on the Ministry of Justice that his brother and his judge are removed from the discharge list. This is the point of the whole story, although the Justice Department sent its commission to determine the work of the municipal and district court on the spot and the report itself was extremely negative. If so, and so, the question arises, why did the Ministry of Justice and the Coordination Centre, in fact, stand in the protection of both mentioned presidents of the court. I don't think that's right, if we have a story that we have to fight all those who have been in the last few years, so to speak, stealing elections. Speaking of which, in the end, we have a Solomonic solution from the Ministry of Justice, which says that one and the other judges are not literally relieved of their duties, but is only determined that their mandate has expired. I don't think that's right. As it is wrong, if we have replaced these judges already, if we say that both judges have expired, we should probably appoint the new presidents of the courts to do their duty, unless we recognise, i.e.. If the Department of Justice doesn't admit that there's a municipal and county court down there, he doesn't want to appoint a president of both the municipal and the county courts. I'm saying, that's the essence of the whole story. I hope that after a few months and one and the other judges will, for sure, be on the list for the election, whether in the Fourth or Fifth Municipal Court, given that Oliver Ivanovic, who protects his brother, has already run over to DOS, and will surely soon mention the judges to translate them into DOS lines.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16300	The word has a folk MP Milan Markovic, followed by MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16301	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, firstly, as a member of the Committee on Justice and Administration, I must say that it has been a pleasure and an honor to work on this committee on all those topics that we have been working on, until the entry into force of 1 January 2002, a set of laws that we have adopted. What adorned the work of our committee is tolerance, respect for arguments, respect for one another. The representatives of the profession, representatives of the Bar Association, the Society of Judges, the Prosecutors' Association and many fellow MPs participated. However, when we adopted a set of laws, including the Law on the High Council of Justice, we agreed not to use our powers in full scope and found that we would choose, or propose, to the National Assembly to choose only those candidates for those courts where it is urgent, because due to the extent of the courts simply in some courts the work had almost stopped. Unfortunately, any work is a possible mistake. It is difficult to correct a mistake and therefore, when a reasonable doubt is raised in a solution, it is necessary to stop. It is better to think about it, so perhaps delaying a solution rather than making a mistake that will later be difficult to correct. Namely, a number of colleagues from Sapac, representatives of the professional public, and fellow MPs here from the Assembly Hall, as well as representatives of local self-government, have disputed the solutions that we, as a Committee, have proposed for the district of the District Court in Sapac, and for the judges of this court, Ivan Lazarevic, Biljana Lazic-Ivanovic and Mirjana Pajtic, and for the President of the District Court in Šapco Vladimir Bajic and for the Judge of the Municipal Court in Šapac Ružica Milekic. I must point out that this is a disputation without entering into the professional and moral qualities of these people, but they are, above all, disputed by the aspect of the possibility of performing these responsible judicial functions, given the delicate state in which the Sabbath judiciary is located. We do not need a shadow of the quality of the decisions we make, first of all because we have made all decisions concerning the Justice and Justice Committee publicly, with the support of the arguments, without any challenge of any other nature. Therefore, I think that we will simply make no mistake, given the disputed solutions, i.e. the doubts that have arisen to this solution and the situation in the Sabbath judiciary, if we still postpone this issue today and resolve another occasion. The High Council of Justice is likely to propose this later. In general, all other proposals, are very serious, with the participation of all relevant factors, we used all possible arguments, all the knowledge that we could come up with, and therefore I suggest that, of course, everything else be accepted. But, therefore, I dispute the proposal I've listed, and that's what the County Court is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16302	The word has the People's MP Zoran D. Nikolic, and the next one is National MP Branko Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16303	I am still under a certain impression of the bitterness that I wear after the pretentious and subjective measures that the chairman of these parliaments gave to my colleague, Zarko Obradovic, who, speaking of the situation in the judiciary, used certain examples, does not seem to insult anyone's dignity, but what to do. It's probably someone who wants this assembly session to end up with an epilogue like this. Not to risk not talking about things off topic, a few words about the work of the Justice Committee, whose member I am. It is good that after the adoption of a set of laws on the judiciary, the Committee for Justice has come to the conclusion that further elections and resolutions of judicial officials will be approached restrictively, and we initially followed that. Indeed, it was only in those bodies and institutions where the election would do great damage to the work of a particular court or prosecution. However, it seems to me that in the last sessions under some pressure we have opened that network and now we have come into a situation to choose over 100 judicial officials at this session. I don't think that's good, and that's how we kind of disaved the High Council of Justice, which, from January 1st of next year, should be asked about these issues and that we have kind of disproved it. As for the work of the Justice Committee, I think it's just before the end, so these last sessions we started talking about the right things, the candidates, the successes they had in their studies, the opinions of the collectives in which they worked, their urgency, the degree of settlement of cases, the percentage of complaints about their subjects, etc., and that in one longer period since the constitution of this assembly we haven't been guided by these criteria. I even think that taking on justice, except for the last month of two days, was really burdened by some of the factors that had, above all, seemed to me to be its foothold in which member of the DOS supports, or contests a certain candidate, that it was a predominant factor in whether anyone would be or not be a judge or prosecutor. That's why we've just been in a very difficult situation to get the same choice proposal and the same motion to resolve it three or four times to the Assembly, so we're going back, we're going back, and we're going back, giving some uncertainty, and I don't think that's good. Also, I think that playing with people, some judges' presidents have been resolved three times, so we haven't solved them or suggested some three times, so we haven't chosen them, those collectives have brought a lot of bad human relations, and that has left no good consequences for Serbia's judiciary. It was not a good experience in the work of the Justice Committee to allow, or to be allowed in addition to legitimate representatives, meaning the Ministry of Justice, whose representatives correctly performed on the Committee on Justice, the High Court representative and representatives of the Republic Prosecutor's Office and normally our MPs, allowed many unauthorized subjects to be present and lecture on MPs and all those who decide in fact on certain cadidats. Not to say that the bar at every level has interfered. The Society of Judges, authorized presidents of municipal courts, even some of the presidents of the municipalities gave themselves the right to tell us MPs, not to tell the National Assembly, to teach anyone who can or should not be chosen as a judge. I think that's the end of the story for the Assembly now, but which the High Council in its work should root out and take full responsibility for future staffing in the area of justice. I think it made our work harder and that ballast no one needs. One more thing at the end of my discussion, there's almost a year since our constitution and only now is the National Assembly on its way to elect a republican public prosecutor. I think it's something that just shouldn't have been allowed. I was a witness when during October and November days, on the strong pressure of a now out-of-parliamentary party, and with favored DOS relationship, an existing, or former republican public prosecutor under pressure resigned to the post. I thought and hoped that after the election this place would logically be filled among the first. But that didn't happen. It's inadmissible for a public prosecutor's body set up, I'd say, as a semi-war formation, where the hierarchy is very pronounced and where a republican public prosecutor is responsible for the functioning of that organ. It is unacceptable for such a significant function in today's session to get its epilogue. I think it's a good idea to propose a candidate who is a young man, who, according to our knowledge, has correct work results and I can say on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, that the new republican public prosecutor in us socialists will have an associate for his proposals to the extent to which indeed, but not declaratively, in his work and the work of the organisation of which the leadership is held by the Constitution and the law. If he provides this in his work, he will certainly have the support of the Socialists. In the end, I always do, I want to congratulate everyone who is elected today, and also to all those who, at their personal request, I want to thank you for everything they've done for the Serbian judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16304	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16305	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since it's already 6:15 p.m., a large number of MPs are in a hurry somewhere, but no one has forced you to make a decision to work until the end of the agenda. I have to say, in the past, a lot of things happened, under DOS rule, of course. For the past year, the main feature of DOS has been uncertainty. This feature can be very well reflected in the situation in the judiciary. In order not to speak without arguments, I must point out that, although I am not a member of the Justice Committee, I have come zealously and attended the meetings of that committee throughout the summer. Why? Because in a specific case of the election of the president of a municipal court, as well as the humane combinations that were current within the DOS, I saw indeed a large gap that made the Pirot Municipal Court collective a very unpleasant atmosphere. Namely, DOS personnel went from one judge to another, trying to ask... I don't understand what applause is, gentlemen. [[coughs, applause]] Or you didn't understand what I was talking about. They were trying to find adequate candidates for what they needed, and apparently they needed obedient ones; they were trying to convince people who were not ready to, although the President of the Municipal Court was not resolved, did not want to sit without the arguments and without the consent of the college in a place they do not think should belong to them. So in the congregation procedure, in the work of the Justice Committee, we had several suggestions. However, what was evident in the end -- that Mr Zoran Manic was proposed for the President of the Municipal Court, and that Mrs Jelisaveta Manic, who is not related at all, was proposed for the President of the District Court. Unfortunately, or fortunately, who knows, one day before the debate in front of this assembly body, Mr. Minister withdrew the proposals at the Justice Committee's session, and that was a lot of talk. And the citizens of Pirota could hear a lot about it live on the show that my colleague and I took part in. So, after such a very unpleasant gesture, the situation at the Community Court of Pirot can be described as the state in which it is in the entire judiciary. In addition to the constant threats to judges that they will be resolved, that under some company of lustration or purification they will be given the obligation to re-apply to a competition for obtaining judicial office, we have had additional pressures in the sense that they are referred to as insufficiently professional people, that they are referred to as people who have not shown neutrality, who have been under political pressure. Now I can only conclude and share the impression, which many judges today in Serbia have, that the political pressures from October 5, 2000 to this day have not been single, but have been increased multiplely. I must also point out that in the Pirot District Court, the situation is even worse, the term of office of the district judge was even last year. The college has neither been consulted, nor has there been three seats for county judges being sadbered by any district judge. I'll remind the minister that only four district judges, who can't arrive sometimes, if one is absent or two, don't give God a chance to form a bigger one. So, we don't have a choice of District Court judges on this occasion, although there are three jobs in place, and at the same time, due to the end of the term of office of the District Court President, last year, the phone was appointed as acting as President of the District Court. That's what I need to draw your attention to. At the same time as the President of the Municipal Court, who is not burdened by any irregularities, or if they are present they would have to be established at the General Court session, to declare this to the College, at the same time as his term of office has not expired, candidates for the post are proposed, thus leading to a very difficult situation. I really don't know how you'd feel about such a situation, about being attributed to a lot of things, and not being explained in any way why you're being threatened with your shift. All of this resulted, due to pressure, by resigning as President of the Municipal Court, as well as by resigning as municipal public prosecutor in Piroth, because these people could not withstand the terrible pressure they were under. A pressure that was not justified. In order to illustrate the effectiveness of the work of the Court of Justice in Piroth, I will remind you that according to Article 29 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 4, which says that the Court, department or judge is being calculated by dividing the number of unfinished cases by the average monthly inflow in the reporting period. From 1994 to 2000, the situation is as follows: - for 1994 the update is 4.59%, for 1995 4,48, gentlemen I really do have an understanding of what you are in a hurry to do at home, but don't let us skip and move on to such an important topic. To keep from reading further, the average update for this period is 4.5%. According to the same Rules of Procedure, the court's total urgency is 3%, and the court's average up-to-date is 4.50. It should be borne in mind that the court has not always worked fully, and according to the system, there are 16 judges. I would like to point out that the situation in the judiciary is exactly the way you have, unfortunately, made it, to which you have led it with your ossional behaviour, and I would also like to point out that in no sense is the opinion of the College and the President of the Court of Justice on the choice of these judges, in specific cases relating to Pirot, not requested. I also cannot agree with the conclusion that this will be a transitional solution until the establishment of the High Council of Justice, which should do this thing. Why? Exactly from the above examples, because if there is a shortage, a lack of three judges in the District Court and we are dealing with some things and selecting judges, the holder of administrative functions in the judiciary, indeed the finding that this is a transitional solution, which will allow the functioning of the judiciary in the transitional period, does not stand. If you wanted to enable the normal functioning of the courts, you would have filled these three empty jobs and allowed the judiciary, specifically in the Pyrot County, to function properly. I must also point out that the findings of the esteemed Minister Batic about the need for the lustration of corrupt judges, those who have ended the electoral will, etc., may not apply to those who continue to bear judicial functions. Two months ago, don't take my word for it, I didn't remember it correctly, they were caught (in particular, it's a judge of the Community Court of Pirot), individuals in taking bribes. Mr. Minister, I think you know about this case, and if you don't know, you should find out. It's a miserable sum of about 100 to 200 marks.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16306	Mr. Todorovic, please stick to the subject and specify, if you challenge a candidate, to state it, but not to talk about it on a flat-rate basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16307	Mrs. Micic, fortunately, this candidate did not find himself on your list, but he was one of the potential candidates, so I must point out that lustration should start from those who really tarnished their hands with anything, but that this must be done on the provisions of the applicable Law on Courts or that the provisions of the new Law on Courts are applied in perspective. I don't know what this joy is, if anyone else has reached the star trails, or something else, let me... [[growls]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16308	I ask you to listen to the speaker, and I ask the speaker to adhere to the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16309	I see you're looking forward to the arrival of some MPs who have fantastic abilities. I am not, unfortunately, one of those, which is why I have to say one more thing - it is a shame for the Serbian judiciary and our assembly that in a year we have not found it appropriate to elect a republican public prosecutor, and that in that year many, I want to point out, many mistakes in the work of the public prosecutor's office, too, at the end of my presentation, I would like to propose to the judges, who, given your majority in this House, will certainly be elected, I wish a lot of success in the work, and not to succumb to the pressures that they will surely be exposed to, given the experience of their older colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16310	Before I conclude a joint single search, does the Proposer's representative want a word? He doesn't want to. ) The word has a minister of justice and local self-government, Mr Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16311	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is some kind of expanded replica, since several MPs have made some views and tried to make some arguments. If you'll excuse me, I'll just answer something. First of all, in relation to the choice of a republican public prosecutor, I must also tell the MPs, because this is often debated in public, sometimes maliciously, that there is no influence on the election of public prosecutors, specifically the Ministry of Justice. Look at the Public Prosecutor's Law, there's not a single jurisdiction. The public prosecutor's office is an independent and independent body, which directly corresponds to parliament for its work. Secondly, compared to the allegations made by Mr Marko Jaksic, whom I have respected and appreciated for years, there is therefore no will nor will nor will of the Ministry of Justice, compared to the initiative for the resolution of Blago Jaksic and Milovan Ivanovic. The co-ordination centre for Kosovo and Metohija has not been chosen by the ministry of justice, but by both governments. There were no occult actions, but it was simply a suggestion that in some ways the Coordination Centre was asking about things that concern, in this case, judicial functions in Kosovo and Metohija, and some other things probably in some other competences. So, there are no individual initiatives, and there's nothing that could have been targeted, that some people, if they did it badly, would not have been resolved. In view of the proposals for selecting the holders of judicial functions in Šapec, I must tell you that a single proposal for the selection of candidates for which an opinion was given to the District Court in Sapac. All 11 members of the district court's council in Capco cared about the proposal. Of course, the parliament of the Republic of Serbia will decide on the choice of candidates. It was also important about the impact of the executive on the judicial authority. I really don't want to repeat that fact, but when you say it, you have to say who's doing it. I would really like a judge, an investigative judge, the president of the court, a public prosecutor, anyone, and to say - the minister of justice called me on the phone to urinate in this or that case, a single judicial office holder in Serbia. Furthermore, it was important for some people to be resolved only because they applied the law. You know, judges in Nazi Germany used to apply the law, but when the Allied Court was formed, he laid down some rules. And Judge Gustav Redbroch has established one formula, which represents the limits -- when a judge is to abide by the law, and when it is to refuse to apply the law. Then when damage, when the law has adverse consequences, too, small, the advantage has an institute of legal certainty over the fundamental concept of justice, and then when a law causes enormous damage, then, simply, justice, as a concept, takes precedence over the legal security institute. But that I do not depart from the matter; therefore there is no will. I would like, in the end, to say that I wish to all those elected as holders of judicial functions at today's session of the Republic's Parliament a lot of success in the work. I congratulate them on their choice, and I suggest that some new perspectives arise, new legislation, improving the material position of judicial employees, education of people who will work in the judiciary, human change. And when I mention staff changes, because it's on the agenda today, I have to tell you just one plastic example -- the fact is that public opinion polls confirm that there is very little trust in the country's citizens in domestic justice. But that's what we inherited from the previous regime. And now a parallel -- the other day we were visited by representatives of the German Ministry of Justice, those who participated in a lustration in Germany. When East Germany joined the Federal Republic of Germany, opinion polls in the Eastern German judiciary put it last. In the Federal Republic of Germany, until then, the judiciary was first placed on citizens' trust, and only three years after the personnel changes in the former East German judiciary were placed first in line with the trust of former East German citizens. We hope it can be done in Serbia, with all the priorities in judicial reform. Simply, to restore the faith and trust of the citizens of this country in our judiciary and what has been a widely accepted password - bread and justice. So much for my part, honourable MPs, and I also want to congratulate everyone on Merry Christmas and New Year's Eve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16312	I thank Mr. Secretary. Since a number of proposals by the Justice and Administration Committee and the V.D. have been challenged during the search, I remind you that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 176(4). The Rules of Procedure shall immediately decide on each contested proposal and then decide on any other undeniable proposals in general by a public vote. We move to a decision on proposals that are disputed in the course of a single pretext, and then we will vote on other undeniable proposals in general. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Justice and Administration Committee to elect Omer Hadziomerovic, whose candidacy has been disputed, as a judge of the District Court in Belgrade. For 85, against 29, abstentions 18, no vote was made by 8, out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has elected Omer Hadjiomerovic as judge of the District Court in Belgrade. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Radosav Baćovic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the president of the Fifth Municipal Court in Belgrade. For 83, against 34, with 19 abstentions, three of the 139 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has elected Radosav Baćovic as president of the Fifth Municipal Court in Belgrade. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Ivan Lazarevic, whose candidacy has been challenged as judge of the District Court in Sapac. For 19, against 67 abstentions 41, 12 of the 139 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not select Ivan Lazarevic as judge of the District Court in Šapec. I am putting on the vote of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Biljana Lazic-Ivanovic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the judge of the District Court in Sapac. For 8, against 75, with 48 abstentions, did not vote 10, out of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Biljana Lazic-Ivanovic to judge the District Court in Sapac. I am putting on the vote of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Mirjana Pajtic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the judge of the District Court in Sapac. For 15, against 93, with 22 abstentions, it did not vote 11 out of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not choose Mirjana Pajtic as judge of the District Court in Šapec. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Justice and Administration Committee to elect Vladimir Bajic, whose candidacy has been disputed, as judge of the District Court in Sapac. For 12, against 63, abstentioned 56, did not vote 10, out of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Vladimir Bajic as judge of the District Court in Šapec. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Ruzica Milekic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the judge of the District Court in Sapac. For 17, against 59, with 55 abstentions, 9 did not vote, out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not select Ruzica Milekic as judge of the District Court in Sapac. We move to a decision on a motion for a decision to suspend the duties of the President of the General Court. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 133, no one, with three abstentions, voted 5, a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the duties of the President of the General Court. We move to a decision on the motion for a decision to suspend the court's office to the judges of general jurisdiction, with additions to the draft decision of 26 December 2001. I'm putting the motion to vote, with the addition. For 133, no one, abstentioned two, voted 5, a total of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office to judges of general jurisdiction, with additions to the draft decision of 26 December 2001. We move on to a decision on the motion for a decision to suspend the function of the public prosecutor. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 136, no one, abstentioned one, voted four, a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the role of the public prosecutor. We move to a decision on the draft decision on the election of a republican public prosecutor. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 128, against one, abstention 7, did not vote 6, out of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect a republican public prosecutor. I remind you he's a member of 35. A public prosecutor's law found that a republican public prosecutor, before taking office, took an oath before the National Assembly. I ask Mr. Sinish Simic, the Republic Public Prosecutor, to take an oath.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16313	"I swear to uphold the Constitution and the law in my work, that I will do my duty in the Public Prosecutor's Office with security and impartiality, and that I will protect constitutionality and legality. "
ParlaMint-RS_2001-12-27-0.u16314	I'm asking the Republic Public Prosecutor to sign the text of the oath. Allow me to congratulate Mr Simic on my behalf on behalf of the Members of the People. We move to a decision on the motion for a decision on the choice of judges and president of the General Court, with amendments and additions to the 27.12.2001, draft decision. I put the motion to vote, with amendments and additions. For 126, against one, a abstentioned one, was not voted by 12, a total of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the election and president of the General Court, with amendments and additions. We move to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Business Court in Uzic, with amendments and additions to the draft decision of 27.12.2001. I put the motion to vote, with amendments and additions. For 125, against one, three abstentions, did not vote 10, a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect the President of the Business Court in Uzic, with amendments and additions to the draft decision. We move to a decision on the proposal for a decision to elect a district attorney in Nis. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 134, no one, with abstentions, voted six, a total of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a decision to elect a district attorney in Nis. We move to a decision on the draft decision on the election of deputy district attorneys. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 135, no one, abstentioned two, voted four, a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect deputy district attorneys. We move to a decision on a decision to elect municipal public prosecutors from 25 October and 19 December 2001. I'm putting the motions to the vote. For 136, no one, abstentioned one, voted four, a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect municipal public prosecutors. We're moving on to a decision on the election of deputy district attorneys. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 136, no one with abstentions voted four, a total of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor. Let me, on your own behalf, congratulate the assembly of judicial officers and wish them success in their work. Let me also, dear colleagues and colleagues, allow you, officials in the National Assembly, journalists, our citizens, to congratulate the New Year and wish them a happier and more successful life. I invite you to a little cocktail hall outside the O.R.; I invite the Minister of Justice and local self-government to join us. I'm closing the session.
